---

title: Architecture for operational support system
abstract: A network management system for management of a communications network is disclosed. The system comprises an inventory database storing a network inventory comprising information representative of network resources of the communications network. The system comprises means for receiving a change request specifying a modification to be made to the network, and an inventory update component adapted to modify the network inventory in response to the change request. The system also includes an implementation component adapted to access the inventory database, identify modifications made to the network inventory, and transmit configuration data to the network to implement the inventory modifications in the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660868&OS=09660868&RS=09660868
owner: Amdocs Development Limited
number: 09660868
owner_city: Limassol
owner_country: CY
publication_date: 20061117
---
The present application is a continuation in part of and claims the priority of a United States patent application filed Feb. 16 2006 under application Ser. No. 11 356 392 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 082 335 which in turn claims the priority of a United Kingdom patent application filed Nov. 18 2005 under application number 0523543.7 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a network management system for the management of a communications network.

Particular aspects relate to systems and methods of performing network modifications in a telecommunications network systems and methods for managing a telecommunications network and systems and methods for generating planning data defining changes to a telecommunications network.

To enable management of a network network management systems also often referred to as operational support systems often store a data model representative of the communications network being managed. The model of the network may include for example details of the network equipment installed in the network and the connections between equipment. Such a model is also referred to as a network inventory. However due to the size and complexity of many networks in particular modern telecommunication networks discrepancies can often arise between the data model and the actual installed network.

In many cases the model is obtained at least partly by a process referred to as network discovery that is to say the automated extraction of information from the network. Such processes can however be unreliable. Discrepancies can also arise where changes are made to the network without being recorded correctly in the inventory. Thus the data in the inventory is often inaccurate and often does not provide a clear view of the actual installed network. However without a reliable inventory many processes which rely on the inventory data such as service provisioning become less efficient and more error prone.

The inaccuracy of such inventories can also affect the quality of planning decisions and lead to the construction of inefficient networks.

Planning decisions are also often based on the analysis of high level service requirements from which optimized network configurations are derived. However it is often difficult to adapt existing network structures to conform to these optimized configurations without simply replacing the existing network structures which is typically not feasible. Physical movement of equipment is also expensive and can cause damage to the equipment. Many telecommunications operators hence prefer to avoid physical restructuring of existing network resources.

Accordingly in a first aspect of the invention there is provided a network management system for management of a communications network comprising an inventory database storing a network inventory comprising information representative of network resources which preferably includes information on network topology of the communications network means for receiving a change request specifying a modification to be made to the network an inventory update component adapted to modify the network inventory in response to the change request and an implementation component adapted to access the inventory database identify modifications made to the network inventory and transmit configuration data to the network to implement the inventory modifications in the network.

The implementation component is preferably adapted to retrieve information relating to the inventory modifications from the inventory database and generate the configuration data in dependence on the retrieved information.

By making network modifications dependent on the data held in the inventory the inventory in effect becomes a controlling entity controlling the state of the network rather than being a passive record of it. Using this approach consistency between the inventory and network can be improved which can enable fuller and more efficient automation of other processes which use the inventory such as service provisioning network repair and service restoration and network planning processes.

The term communications network preferably refers to a network of interconnected devices and possibly associated software which provides information and communications functions. In preferred examples the network is a telecommunications network which provides telecommunications services. Optionally other types of functions or services may additionally be provided by or using the tele communications network for example data processing storage and retrieval services. Examples of such services include a mailbox web space an interactive travel booking system a multimedia content delivery system or an online game. Such additional services are particular relevant in next generation networks. Instead of a telecommunications network the invention may also be applied to any suitable type of communications system or information processing system in which communication functionality or services are provided using distributed interconnected devices for example in a local area network LAN .

The term network inventory preferably refers to an inventory of network resources provided in the network being managed which may include both physical resources e.g. devices and connections and logical resources e.g. logical ports and bandwidth allocations . The inventory preferably provides a model of the network though the model need not provide a complete representation of the underlying network structure but may instead be designed to more effectively support network management functions. Thus the model may be in essence a functional rather than a structural model or may be a combination of both. Preferably the inventory is highly configurable with regard to these options so that it can be optimally configured to support a specific activity or set of activities in any particular deployment. The inventory or model is typically represented by a data model preferably stored in a database. This may comprise data entities representing network entities whether these are abstract functional or concrete structural network entities the data entities comprising attributes representing characteristics of the network entities. Data entities may for example be in the form of tables and table rows in a relational database or objects in an object database depending on the database technology used.

The term network resource preferably refers to tangible physical or low level logical technological entities from which a network is constructed including for example pieces of equipment devices components for devices e.g. cards facilities of devices or subdivisions thereof e.g. ports groups or associations of equipment or devices connections e.g. cables support structures e.g. ducts software executing on devices or low level logical entities e.g. timeslots files or other storage space assignments . A grouping of network resources may itself be a network resource for example an exchange may be viewed as a network resource . Thus the network model may represent network resources in a hierarchical manner.

The system preferably the inventory update component or alternatively the database itself is preferably adapted to generate one or more change records identifying modifications made to the network inventory and the network implementation component is preferably adapted to receive the change records and identify the inventory modifications in dependence on the change records.

This can assist the network implementation component in identifying where changes have been made to the inventory and can thus improve efficiency. The change records preferably specify inventory entities that have been modified by the inventory update component the network implementation component being adapted to access the specified inventory entities in the database and retrieve information relating to those entities from the database.

The inventory update component is preferably adapted to select one of a plurality of stored scripts in dependence on the change request each script specifying inventory modification actions for performing a given modification and executing the modification actions specified by the selected script in the inventory database. This can simplify the processing of change requests. The change request may relate to changes requiring external action in addition to inventory updates in which case the system preferably comprises means for interfacing with one or more external systems for carrying out the required external action. This can increase the scope of the activities supported provide greater flexibility and enable more efficient implementation of network changes.

The network implementation component is preferably adapted to receive a plurality of change records generated in response to one or more change requests to access the inventory database and identify inventory modifications in dependence on the plurality of change records and to generate a set of network configuration actions corresponding to the identified inventory modifications. The network implementation component thus preferably processes change records in batches. This can improve efficiency. Preferably the network implementation component is adapted to combine two or more related network modifications into the same network configuration action. This can reduce disruption caused by network configuration activities. The network implementation component is preferably adapted to combine at least two network modifications relating to the same network resource or device into a single network configuration action relating to that resource or device. The configuration actions preferably comprise or are in the form of configuration commands for network devices the implementation component being adapted to transmit the configuration commands to the devices. This can enable automatic implementation of changes in the network.

The system is preferably adapted to receive change requests from one or more network management applications which may comprise one or more of a network design application a network resource management application a network planning application a network reporting application and a service provisioning application.

Preferably the inventory provides a model of the network the model defining network entities attributes of network entities and connections between network entities the system further comprising an interface for receiving inventory update requests expressed in terms of the model and issuing database update requests corresponding to the inventory update requests to the database. In this way the data implementation i.e. the data structures and database technology used can be hidden from the remainder of the system.

In a further aspect the invention provides a method of managing a network comprising storing a network inventory comprising information representative of network resources of the communications network which preferably includes network topology information receiving a change request specifying a modification to be made to the network modifying the network inventory in response to the change request accessing the network inventory to identify modifications made to the network inventory and implementing the identified modification in the network. Implementing the identified modifications preferably comprises transmitting configuration data to the network to implement the inventory modifications in the network. Implementing the identified modifications may comprise one or more of installing new equipment in the network connecting network devices and configuring network devices. The method may further comprise steps corresponding to the activities performed by the network management system as set out above.

In a further aspect the invention provides a method of performing network modifications in a communications network comprising receiving a plurality of change requests each specifying a modification to be made to the network identifying for each change request one or more modification actions required for implementing the modification specified by the change request in the network analysing the modification actions identified for the plurality of change requests to identify at least two modification actions relating to the same network resource determining a network configuration action for configuring the network resource so as to implement the at least two modification actions in the network and performing the network configuration action in the network.

In this way multiple modification actions can be carried out in a single configuration action. Network configuration can thereby be performed more efficiently and disruption to the network can be reduced. This method may also be used with the system and methods set out above. For example a network inventory may be provided and the modification actions may be inventory update actions for updating the inventory to implement the modification specified in the change request in the inventory. The method may then also comprise performing the identified inventory update actions. The analysing step is then preferably performed in relation to the identified or performed inventory update actions.

Accordingly in a further aspect the invention provides a method of performing network modifications in a communications network comprising storing a network inventory comprising information representative of network resources of the communications network receiving a plurality of change requests each specifying a modification to be made to the network identifying for each change request one or more inventory update actions required for implementing the modification specified by the change request in the network inventory and performing the identified inventory update actions to implement the modification in the network inventory analysing the inventory update actions performed for the plurality of change requests to identify two or more update actions relating to the same network resource determining a network configuration action for configuring the network resource so as to implement the two or more update actions in the network and performing the network configuration action in the network.

Preferably analysing the modification or inventory update actions comprises identifying a plurality of groups of actions each group of actions relating to a respective network resource the method further comprising determining for each group of actions a network configuration action for configuring the respective network resource so as to implement the group of actions in the network and performing the determined network configuration actions that is to say each action in the network. In this way modification or inventory update actions may be grouped so as to allow for more efficient implementation in the network. For example repeated access to a given network resource can be avoided and the amount of configuration traffic in the network can be reduced. Instead of grouping actions by network resource actions which are related in some other way may be grouped. Generally speaking the method may group actions which can be implemented by a single configuration action and then generate the configuration action for each group to thereby improve configuration efficiency. For example actions relating to the same external system could be grouped allowing a single configuration message to be transmitted to the external system. As a further example the network resource may be an exchange with manual maintenance activities relating to that exchange being grouped into a single work plan for that exchange.

Since the modification or inventory update actions which are grouped may originate from separate change requests for example relating to different services or users efficiency can be significantly improved as compared to a system where each change request is performed as an indivisible task and without regard to other change requests.

The analysing and or performing steps may be performed in response to a predetermined condition for example at a predetermined time or in response to an operator command or after a predetermined number of change requests have been received. For example in this way the execution of configuration actions can be limited to a certain time period for example during the night when there is less network traffic so as to reduce the impact of the configuration changes on the network and its users.

Performing a network configuration action may comprise one or more of adding a network resource to the network removing a network resource from the network transmitting a configuration command to a network resource and adding modifying or removing a connection to or from a network resource.

The invention also provides a method of performing network modification in a telecommunications network comprising storing a database comprising a master inventory defining network resources available in the network and performing a network modification by a process comprising modifying the database storing the master inventory and modifying the network in dependence on the modified database.

In this way and as previously set out a system can be provided in which changes in the actual network are made in response to changes to the inventory preferably always or at least in normal circumstances possibly not including emergency repairs or modifications . An inventory can thus be provided which reflects the state of the actual network more accurately and which can allow for more reliable planning decisions and changes to the network. The inventory can also enable service provisioning processes to be automated more effectively.

The master inventory may define network resources which exist in the network and are available for use and may additionally define planned network resources which do not yet physically exist in the network or are not connected or configured for use.

Preferably performing the network modification further comprises outputting a change record describing the modification made to the database and modifying the network using the change record. This can provide a reliable mechanism for controlling changes to the network.

The method may comprise collating a plurality of change records describing modifications to the database to generate a network modification plan the network modification plan defining multiple network changes and modifying the network using the modification plan. This can enable more efficient network modification by grouping multiple changes. The changes may be grouped based on a number of factors including the type of equipment to which a change relates and or the network location at which the change is to be performed. Using the latter criterion network modifications can be grouped based on location so that for example the modifications can be performed in a single visit to the location.

The network modification preferably comprises addition and or deletion of one or more network resources to and or from the network. The database preferably stores elements representing network resources and modifying the database preferably comprises adding deleting or modifying one or more database elements in the database.

The method may further comprise storing a service inventory the service inventory being derived from the master inventory and containing information used for the provisioning of services in the network and provisioning services in the network using the service inventory. This can allow service provisioning typically a more frequent activity to be performed separately of network design and planning which can lead to improved reliability. Preferably the service inventory includes only such information as is required to perform service provisioning and related tasks.

Provisioning a service preferably comprises modifying the service inventory in dependence on the service being provisioned and configuring the network to provide the service in dependence on the modified service inventory. This can ensure that the service inventory reflects provisioned services more accurately and can allow for more sophisticated provisioning processes. Provisioning the service preferably comprises generating configuration information in dependence on the service inventory modification and transmitting the configuration information to one or more network resources in the network to configure the network resources to provide the service.

The method preferably comprises updating the service inventory in response to changes in the master inventory. In this way the service inventory can be kept up to date.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of managing a telecommunications network comprising storing a database comprising a master inventory defining network resources available in the network storing a database comprising a service inventory the service inventory being derived from the master inventory and containing information used for the provisioning of services in the network and modifying the service inventory in response to modification of the master inventory. This can allow network design planning and service provisioning to be performed independently whilst ensuring that both use an accurate data model.

The method preferably comprises modifying the network by a process including modifying the master inventory generating change information in response to modification of the master inventory and modifying the network in dependence on the change information. The method preferably comprises provisioning a service in the network by a process including modifying the service inventory generating configuration information in response to the modification of the service inventory and transmitting the configuration information to the network. The method may comprise receiving a service order relating to a service and provisioning the service using the service inventory in response to the order. The master inventory and service inventory may alternatively be provided as a single network inventory. The inventory or inventories may be in the form of an inventory model stored in accordance with a given data model in a database.

Preferably the method comprises analysing utilisation of network resources in the network and planning changes to the network in dependence on the outcome of the analysis. Analysing and planning preferably comprises measuring the utilisation of one or more network resources in the network over time analysing the measured utilisation over time of the one or more network resources to determine a utilisation trend predicting future utilisation of the one or more network resources using the determined utilisation trend and planning changes to the network in dependence on the predicted future utilisation.

This feature is also provided independently. Accordingly in a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of generating planning data defining changes to a telecommunications network comprising measuring the utilisation of one or more network resources in the network over time analysing the measured utilisation over time to determine a utilisation trend calculating a predicted future utilisation of the one or more network resources using the determined utilisation trend and generating planning data defining changes to the network in dependence on the predicted future utilisation of the one or more network resources. This can enable higher quality planning data to be generated which is derived using information on the actual network and the utilisation of actual network resources. A planning process can thus be provided which is driven by the actual existing network rather than high level abstract service requirements. This can lead to the planning of network changes which can be more easily implemented in the existing network.

The one or more resources are preferably associated with a given network location the planning data defining changes to the network at the network location. Alternatively or additionally the one or more resources may be associated with connection resources between network locations the planning data defining changes to the connection resources.

The term network location preferably refers to a location or area where a specified portion of the network is located for example a geographical area such as a town or city or a location where network equipment and connections are provided such as a building or building complex or a floor or room in a building. For example an exchange may be a network location. A network location may also be a logical grouping of network resources. A network typically includes a plurality of such network locations interconnected in some way.

The method preferably comprises calculating a measure of the predicted demand for a type of network resource in dependence on the predicted utilisation and generating the planning data in dependence on the predicted demand. The measure of the predicted demand for a type of resource is preferably calculated in dependence on the predicted utilisation of the one or more resources and in dependence on one or more adjustment parameters. This can provide greater flexibility.

The one or more adjustment parameters may comprise one or more of a global adjustment factor a local adjustment factor and a service trend adjustment factor. The method preferably comprises analysing service data relating to services provided using the one or more network resources or the network location over time to determine a service trend and determining the service trend adjustment factor in dependence on the service trend. In this way higher level service requirements can still be taken into account in a network driven planning process.

The global adjustment factor may relate to external conditions relevant to the network for example general economic conditions. The local adjustment factor may relate to conditions local to a geographical area or population of an area and or local to a portion of the network including the one or more network resources and or the network location. The planning data may define one or more modifications additions and or removals of network resources in the network.

The invention also provides a method of performing network modification in a telecommunications network comprising generating planning data defining changes to the network using a method as described above and performing network modification in dependence on the planning data. The network modification may be performed using a method as described above. The above methods as well as those set out below may be combined in any other suitable way.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of managing a telecommunications network comprising maintaining a master inventory defining network resources available in the network and implementing changes to the network by implementing the changes in the master inventory and translating the inventory changes into changes to the network.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of managing a telecommunications network comprising maintaining a master inventory describing network resources available in the network maintaining a service inventory the service inventory being derived from the master inventory and containing information used for the provisioning of services in the network and updating the service inventory in response to changes in the master inventory.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of planning changes to a telecommunications network comprising measuring the utilisation of one or more network resources in the network over time analysing the measured utilisation over time to determine a utilisation trend predicting future utilisation of the one or more network resources using the determined utilisation trend and planning changes to the network in dependence on the predicted future utilisation of the one or more network resources.

In a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method of generating planning data defining planned changes to a telecommunications network comprising representing the network in an abstract representation as a plurality of capability objects each capability object representing a network capability and generating planning data specifying changes to network capabilities the changes being expressed in the planning data at a level of abstraction corresponding to that of the abstract representation.

This can enable more effective planning of network changes which does not rely on a detailed network model. Planning decisions can be expressed in more abstract terms allowing their implementation to be determined separately by a resource planner.

Network capabilities may for example include groupings of network resources and or network functions technical or functional characteristics of parts of a network and or services and functions providable by a network or by part of a network. Network capabilities are preferably represented independently of the network resources which provide the capabilities.

The changes may be expressed in the planning data in terms of or in terms corresponding to the abstract representation. Thus the changes are preferably expressed in terms of the capabilities represented or representable in the abstract representation. For example the planning data may specify the addition modification and or removal of network capabilities. The terms change and modification and related terms are herein meant to encompass the addition of new capabilities or resources as well as the modification or deletion of existing capabilities or resources or of representations thereof in a model or database unless the context otherwise requires.

The abstract representation is preferably in the form of an abstract network model also referred to herein as a planning model or capability plan preferably stored in a database. The term object is used here in a general sense to refer to a representational unit or entity. Capability objects may be represented using database entities such as database tables in a relational database or database objects in an object database depending on the type of database used.

The method preferably comprises modifying the abstract representation in dependence on the planning data. This may involve adding modifying or changing capability objects so as to reflect the planned changes. Preferably the method comprises translating the planning data specifying changes to network capabilities at the abstract level into detailed planning data specifying network changes for implementing the capability changes. The detailed planning data may specify addition or removal of or changes to network resources for example network equipment in the network or in a network model .

The method preferably further comprises storing a model of the network the model defining network resources of the network and modifying the network model in dependence on the planning data. The model is preferably more detailed than the abstract representation i.e. at a lower level of abstraction and preferably represents network resources of the network for example network equipment and connections between equipment.

The method may further comprise storing a plurality of templates each defining changes to the network model selecting a template in dependence on the planning data and modifying the network model using the template. The use of templates can allow for more efficient and controlled implementation of planning requirements in the network model. A given template may be associated with one or more parameters in which case values for the parameters are preferably derived from the planning data. Parameterisable templates can provide greater flexibility.

The method preferably comprises implementing the network changes in the network in dependence on the modifications made to the network model. This can ensure that correspondence is maintained between the network model and the actual installed network.

Capability objects may represent one or more of partitions of network resources of the network for example network domains network areas network locations or equipment sites physical characteristics of locations or sites and technological capabilities or logical capabilities available at locations or sites or connecting locations or sites. Technological and logical capabilities may also be viewed as representing partitions of network resources i.e. technological logical rather than geographic partitions .

Preferably the abstract representation comprises a hierarchy of capability objects representing a hierarchical partitioning of network resources of the network for example a network location comprising one or more equipment sites each comprising one or more technological capabilities . This can simplify planning and enable more efficient implementation of planned changes. The abstract representation preferably does not directly represent low level network resources such as pieces of network equipment or specific connections. More generally the abstract representation preferably comprises only such information as is needed for performing planning tasks i.e. data is held only at a level of detail needed to support network planning .

The invention also provides a planning system for generating planning data defining planned changes to a telecommunications network comprising a database storing a planning model representing the network using a plurality of capability objects each capability object representing a network capability and a planning module adapted to generate planning data specifying changes to network capabilities in dependence on the planning model.

Also provided are a network management system or network planning system adapted to perform a method as described herein apparatus comprising means for performing a method as described herein and a computer program or computer program product comprising software code adapted when executed on a data processing apparatus to perform a method as described herein.

More generally the invention also provides a computer program and a computer program product for carrying out any of the methods described herein and or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein and a computer readable medium having stored thereon a program for carrying out any of the methods described herein and or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein.

The invention also provides a signal embodying a computer program for carrying out any of the methods described herein and or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein a method of transmitting such a signal and a computer product having an operating system which supports a computer program for carrying out any of the methods described herein and or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein.

The invention extends to methods and or apparatus substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Any feature in one aspect of the invention may be applied to other aspects of the invention in any appropriate combination. In particular method aspects may be applied to apparatus aspects and vice versa.

Furthermore features implemented in hardware may generally be implemented in software and vice versa. Any reference to software and hardware features herein should be construed accordingly.

The network management system is an operational support system for supporting the operations of a telecommunications service provider. It provides facilities for carrying out two distinct management processes a network engineering process and a service order fulfilment process. The network engineering process includes the planning design and physical construction of the network. The order fulfilment process includes the provisioning of services to users of the network in response to service orders.

Underlying these processes is a master inventory . The master inventory provides a representation or model of the network which supports the various processes outlined above. Specifically the inventory stores information defining the network resources available in network including network devices connections between network devices and features and characteristics of devices and connections. The inventory may also store information defining planned resources i.e. resources which do not yet physically exist in the network or are not connected or configured for use but which are intended to be added to the network. In preferred embodiments the master inventory also referred to as the resource inventory stores sufficient detail but no more detail than required to carry out its two primary tasks firstly to allow the specification of changes to the network that will be implemented by physical planning and construction processes either internally by device vendors or by other suppliers secondly to populate the service inventory described below with network data so that the service inventory is able to build service specific inventory data on top of the network data and so enable service provisioning in the inventory.

The inventory is managed by a resource planner . Resource planner controls changes to the inventory for example the addition or removal of network resources.

A network planning application interacts with the resource planner and provides functions for supporting the planning of the network principally by analysing information held in the inventory and identifying changes to the network needed to enable the network to meet future demand. The network planning module interacts with the resource planner to implement the changes.

Any changes made to the master inventory are translated into changes to the actual network . These changes may include physical changes such as the installation of new equipment or connections as well as the configuration of equipment or connections. The planning and construction functions together form the network engineering process represented by arrow in .

To support the order fulfilment process an order entry module an order management module a provisioning subsystem and an activation module are provided.

Service orders are received by the order entry module which may for example comprise an interactive order entry application. Service orders are then processed by order management module which identifies the specific services that need to be provisioned in response to a given order and carries out other associated functions such as billing in some cases by interaction with external systems. Once the relevant services have been identified the order management system instructs the provisioning system to provision those services in the network.

The service provisioning system is responsible for provisioning services to users of the network . The provisioning system maintains a service inventory used for provisioning services in the network. The service inventory is derived from the master inventory but typically contains only the information from the master inventory that is needed to enable the provisioning of services and the management of provisioned services. The service inventory typically also contains additional information not present in the master inventory to support the provisioning processes.

To provision a service the provisioning system identifies network resources in the service inventory which can be used to provide the service generates network configuration information for configuring the identified network resources to provide the service and updates the service inventory to reflect the new service. The configuration information is passed to activation module which generates device specific configuration instructions and transmits these to the network to set up the new service.

Information about the network is obtained and analysed in step . This information typically includes information obtained from the master inventory but may also include other information such as service data and external data. In some embodiments the information is provided by a separate abstract planning model described in more detail below . The analysis results in the identification of requirements for the network.

In step changes to the network are determined to support the identified requirements. These changes are implemented in the inventory in step .

In response to changes in the inventory change records are generated in step . These change records define the changes which need to be made to the network to ensure that the network corresponds to the network model of the inventory . The change records are used to implement the changes in the network in step .

The changes typically include the addition of new network resources e.g. network devices or physical connections between devices to the network as well as less frequently the removal of existing network resources from the network . This process of maintaining and changing the physical network is referred to herein as network construction.

In normal circumstances the physical network is thus modified only in response to modification of the inventory . In this way it can be ensured that the master inventory maintains an accurate model of the network and can thus serve to reliably support other operational processes. The inventory is in effect master of the network in the present system unlike many prior art systems where a network model is generated from the physical network for example by information extraction discovery. In the present system the inventory controls the physical shape and configuration of the network not vice versa.

The master inventory stores the information required to support any operational processes in particular those under the control of the network management system but also external processes not discussed here such as reporting functions.

Changes may also be made to the inventory without the network planning process of steps and which may be supported by the network planning application of . To enable such changes the resource planner typically includes an interactive application by way of which a network designer can add modify or delete network resources in the inventory directly for example to increase capacity or introduce new technologies.

A variety of planning methods may be used in the network planning process summarised above in steps and of . One example of a planning method is illustrated in more detail in .

This planning method uses utilisation information relating to specific resources to determine future demands and determine network upgrades needed to support those demands.

The utilisation of a resource or group of resources is measured in step . This information is obtained from the service inventory and measured over time. In some embodiments utilisation data may also be directly obtained from the network.

The utilisation data typically specifies the assignment of resources to services e.g. the assignment of ports or timeslots . For example the utilisation data may specify that at a given network location n out of m available access ports are assigned to services and that m n access ports are hence available for provisioning of future services. In some embodiments as an alternative or in addition to the above view of resource utilisation based on service assignment utilisation data relating to data flow through given network resources may also be used such data would typically be obtained from the network .

The utilisation data is analysed in step and a utilisation trend is determined. The utilisation trend specifies whether utilisation of the resource or resources is increasing or decreasing and the rate of that increase decrease or whether utilisation is essentially static. The utilisation over a given future period is then predicted at step based on the identified utilisation trend. Known curve fitting extrapolation techniques may be used to identify trends and calculate predicted utilisation.

The predicted utilisation of the resource or resources may be used to determine a predicted demand for a given type of resource. Typically the type of resource directly corresponds to the resource or resources under consideration. Alternatively the resource or resources under consideration may be of a different type but the information on their utilisation may nevertheless be useful in indirectly predicting demand for a certain type of resource.

This predicted demand can be directly derived from the predicted utilisation calculated in step . Alternatively the predicted demand may be arrived at by combining the predicted utilisation with one or more adjustment parameters in step . By way of example three types of adjustment parameter are described here a global adjustment parameter a local adjustment parameter and a service trend adjustment parameter .

A global adjustment parameter may be used to reflect conditions relevant to future demand which are generally applicable to the network as a whole for example prevailing economic conditions or economic predictions marketing campaigns or sales initiatives or changes in service pricing. As a specific example economic conditions may suggest that a period of increased growth is expected and the global adjustment parameter may then specify that the predicted demand should accordingly be increased by a specified percentage.

A local adjustment parameter may be used to reflect conditions which may affect a portion of the network for example a specific network location such as a network exchange. For example knowledge of a major residential building programme in a given area may indicate a likelihood of greater than average growth in resource utilisation at a certain exchange and a local adjustment parameter may therefore specify that the predicted demand for that exchange should be increased by a specified percentage. Alternatively a local adjustment parameter may relate to conditions local to a given geographical area or population of an area typically an area associated with the network resources under consideration .

A service trend adjustment parameter may be used to reflect trends in the use of certain services typically services relevant to the network resources under consideration or a network location including those resources . The service trend adjustment parameter may be determined by analysing service information held in the service inventory to determine service trends. For example a given network location may be associated with a greater than average increase in the uptake of broadband internet services. A service trend adjustment parameter may reflect this service trend by specifying that the predicted demand for a given type of network resources should be increased by a specified percentage. The service trend adjustment parameter may itself be varied in dependence on the magnitude of the service trend. Instead of services provided at a specific location end to end service trends may also be analysed e.g. by analysing services provided between given locations . Such service trends may affect future demand at the relevant locations or at some other location e.g. an intermediate location which may be involved in the provision of the services and may thus be used as the basis for service trend adjustment parameters.

The above adjustment parameters may be used in any suitable combination and multiple adjustment parameters of any given type may be used. Typically a local adjustment parameter will relate to a specific location or portion of the network and will accordingly only be used in the calculation of resource demand for that location.

The adjustment parameters may be stored by the network planning application or in the inventory itself and may be set by a network planner or obtained automatically from a suitable source. Service trends may be calculated off line and stored typically associated with network locations or may be calculated on the fly during planning.

Once the predicted demand for a type of network resource at the given location or in the case of connection resources between locations has been determined the network planning application derives planning requirements by comparing the predicted demand for resources to the resources which are actually in place in the network and which are available for providing services this information is available in the master inventory model and or the service inventory . The difference between the resource demand and the existing resources determines what resources need to be added to the network in order to meet the predicted future demand. These requirements are then used to instruct the resource planner to create new resources of the relevant type in the network e.g. at the specified location . The network planning application may also instruct the resource planner to create additional resources needed to support the resources being added. For example the addition of a certain type of device to the network may require other supporting devices to be added and connections between devices may also need to be created. In some cases certain network functionality required for operation of the new resources may be implemented by way of internal services i.e. services which are not directly associated with end users in which case the resource planner interacts with the provisioning system to initiate provisioning of those internal services.

Resource planner which is preferably an automated process but may include a human planner receives the information specifying the new resources from network planning module and creates the new resources in the master inventory .

As discussed above in response to the changes in the inventory change records are generated documenting the changes. These change records are then used to physically implement the changes in the network e.g. by adding network devices and or connections at the relevant location.

The system preferably collates multiple related change records to produce a network modification plan. Such plans typically represent groups of network changes grouped for organisational purposes. Network construction activities are then driven by network modification plans. Changes may be grouped into plans based on appropriate criteria such as the equipment type involved the class of engineering personnel required to carry out the changes and or the network location at which the physical changes are to be implemented. Changes relating to specific network resources for example configuration changes may also be grouped. Grouping network modifications in this way can improve the efficiency of the network construction and configuration processes and reduce disruption caused by the changes. The processing of network changes is discussed in more detail below.

In a preferred embodiment the network planner outputs planning data describing planned changes at a more abstract or less detailed level than is needed for implementation of the changes in the network. The resource planner then determines the detailed low level implementation of the changes.

More specifically in this embodiment the network planner maintains a higher level more abstract representation of the network referred to as the planning model or capability plan. The capability plan models the network in terms of network capabilities typically associated with network locations or connections between network locations without representing the detailed network structure that provides those capabilities. In preferred embodiments the capability plan preferably holds only such information as is needed for the planning functions.

The network planner analyses resource utilisation to determine future resource demands and identifies network capabilities needed to meet those demands based on the existing capabilities modelled in the capability plan. It then outputs a planning request specifying the capabilities needed to the resource planner . The resource planner then determines the changes to or additions of network structure and resources needed to provide the new capabilities and implements the changes in the master inventory . The changes to the master inventory are then translated into physical network changes as has been described above.

One preferred method of converting the high level planning requirements output by the network planning module into specific changes in the master inventory uses templates referred to herein as Standard Builds. A template or Standard Build represents a set of specific configurations preferably expressed in the same way as data items in the master inventory and used to specify controlled changes to the master inventory.

Standard Build templates specify standard types of growth shrinkage or change of network facilities typically those change types which occur reasonably frequently in day today operations . They can also act to constrain the planning module and or human planners to a given set of possible change types which can lead to a more controlled and structured network.

Thus a Standard Build template may specify the addition modification or removal of resources in the master inventory. The system preferably stores a library of Standard Build templates each associated with given planning requirements. The resource planner selects a Standard Build template associated with a given planning requirement and instantiates the template with any required parameters for example specifying a relevant network location to produce detailed implementation information for implementing the requirement in the master inventory.

Standard Build templates may for example correspond to types of capability object used in the capability plan. The addition of a given capability object to the capability plan by the planning module can then be implemented by the resource planner in the master inventory by using the appropriate Standard Build template corresponding to the capability object added.

As an example a Standard Build template called Mid Size SDH Customer Access could specify an SDH Add Drop Multiplexer at a specified location with two connections of STM 4 bandwidth from its East and West ports to separate unspecified core SDH Cross Connects that exist at the specified location and presenting 400 tributary ports at 2 Mbit s bandwidth. Such a Standard Build would be invoked if the planning module determined a requirement for say 325 additional SDH customer access ports at a location.

To enable the resource utilisation and service trends to be determined the service inventory preferably records information allowing changes to the network over time to be analysed. This can be achieved through data warehousing techniques such as maintaining time stamped records corresponding to previous states of the network alongside the current network state.

In some embodiments the master inventory may store some service related data for the purposes of determining utilisation trends. This data is received from the service inventory when new services are provisioned by provisioning system or by way of a periodic update procedure. In this way the network planning module can determine utilisation trends without needing to access both the master inventory and the service inventory which can lead to improved efficiency. In some further embodiments the master inventory and service inventory may be provided as a single inventory accessed separately by resource planner and provisioning system thus removing the need for updating one inventory in response to changes in the other.

The above description is intended to illustrate in a simplified form the basic components processes and concepts of the network management system an embodiment of which will now be described in more detail with reference to .

The network management system of this embodiment comprises a control subsystem for managing the execution of network modification tasks the inventory model and an implementation subsystem for implementing changes made in the inventory model in the physical network .

The control subsystem receives network change requests from a number of network management applications . Network management applications obtain information on the network from inventory model and use that information to perform various activities involving changes to the network and or other related systems. Examples of network management applications include an automated planning application as already discussed above a network design resource management application a service provisioning application corresponding for example to order entry order management and provisioning components of and a reporting application .

The automated planning application may provide a variety of network planning mechanisms such as forecasting service demands identifying resource requirements and planning network upgrades as already described above. Network design resource management application allows the network operator to view and modify the configuration of the network and manually control the removal addition connection and configuration of network resources for example to augment automatic planning activities carried out by planning application . Service provisioning application provides functionality for the provisioning of services to users of the telecommunications network including for example identifying network resources usable for a given service requesting new resources where needed designing circuits and reserving bandwidth for services.

The above application functions may involve a variety of changes to the telecommunications network for example 

Some activities of the network management applications may alternatively or additionally require action by external systems such as a billing system for example setting up a new user s billing account on a separate billing system or stock management system for example requesting new equipment . The external actions may also include manual activities. These external activities may be initiated either by the control subsystem if the activity is best managed as part of the specific change request or by the implementation subsystem if the activity can be grouped with other similar activities as is described in more detail below.

The control subsystem receives network change requests from network management applications and passes details of any external actions to relevant external systems which may include reporting systems for reporting tasks requiring external and or manual execution to an operator.

Changes to the network itself are made in two stages. Firstly the control subsystem initiates changes in the inventory model . This typically involves translating the high level changes specified in the change requests into a set of more detailed inventory updates. Secondly the implementation subsystem configures the network in response to the changes made to the inventory model.

In the example illustrated control subsystem receives a change request from service provisioning application . The change request may specify several high level tasks which are to be carried out. The control subsystem then generates a set of inventory update instructions corresponding to the tasks. The inventory update instructions are passed to a database interface which carries out the instructions and updates the inventory model accordingly.

Additionally the control subsystem generates one or more change records which record the changes made to the inventory.

The change records output by the control subsystem are passed to the implementation subsystem . Implementation subsystem uses the change records to access the inventory model and identify the modifications made to the inventory model. Implementation subsystem then generates corresponding configuration commands to configure resources in the network in accordance with the changes made to the inventory model and may also call external systems or initiate manual activities in order to realise the changes beyond the inventory model .

As mentioned above the control subsystem receives a change request specifying network changes. The network changes are specified at a high level by specifying one or more predefined operations. The operations are defined by a set of scripts stored in a script library .

In the present example the change request includes a first item new dsl access for requesting the setup of a new DSL Digital Subscriber Line Internet access service for a user. Control subsystem accesses the script library and retrieves the corresponding script for implementing the new service. The script sets out the more detailed operations which should be carried out to provision the service.

A script may specify external tasks and inventory changes as described above. Specific examples of external activities relevant to the current example may include for example the delivery and installation of customer premises equipment CPE such as an ADSL modem the posting out of welcome letters or software the booking of an engineer s visit using a workforce scheduling system the placing of external supply orders and the like. The external tasks in the example task are passed to a relevant external system which performs or schedules the relevant activities needed to complete the task.

To carry out the inventory changes the control subsystem also transmits inventory update instructions to the database interface . The interface then generates and carries out the necessary database operations to update the inventory model .

The inventory model is represented in the database by a data model. The data model includes data entities representing network resources and having attributes representing the configuration and other characteristics for example life cycle status and utilisation levels of the network resources. Relationships between network resources such as interconnections are also modelled. In a given deployment of the described system the network resources the services on the network and other related items including customers settings capacity and locations are modelled with sufficient detail to achieve the purpose of the applications . Network resources may include physical installations groupings of equipment and individual pieces of equipment for example data centres exchanges routers switches cards physical ports ducts cables and other devices or components as well as logical entities such as logical bandwidth divisions logical ports and circuit routes . Interconnections may be specified at the physical or logical level for example connections between routers physical ports or logical ports . The model may represent a complex network including a variety of different networking technologies.

However the model need not necessarily provide a complete structural representation of the underlying network structure but may instead be designed to more effectively support network management functions of the network management applications . Thus the model may in essence be a functional rather than a structural model or may be a combination of both. Examples of abstract or functional model entities may include an entity representing a circuit route between two given locations which in fact only exists as a sequence of interconnected network nodes across which traffic may be routed. Examples of concrete structural model entities may include routers and switches.

The inventory model may be implemented using any suitable data structures depending on the type of database technology used for example as a set of relational tables in a relational database or as a collection of objects in an object database .

The inventory update instructions generated by control subsystem are preferably expressed in terms of the inventory model rather than the data implementation. Database interface generates corresponding database instructions which are passed to the database s database management system DBMS for execution. For example in a typical relational database the database commands may be in the form of SQL statements or calls to stored procedures.

As mentioned above and shown in the control subsystem additionally generates change records . These are used by implementation subsystem to implement the required changes in the physical network as shown in more detail in .

The implementation subsystem typically processes change records in a batch process. The grouping of change records may be determined in a variety of ways for example the implementation subsystem may be triggered at certain predefined times after a certain number of changes or change records have been generated or in response to an operator command. Once invoked the implementation subsystem processes the change records accumulated since the implementation subsystem was last run.

The implementation subsystem preferably groups network changes intelligently so as to minimise the number of configuration operations carried out in the physical network .

For example implementation subsystem may group changes relating to the same device into a single configuration action. The implementation subsystem then only needs to access the device in the network once to carry out all the required changes for that device.

In the abstract example shown in implementation subsystem is processing a batch of change records including change record of the earlier example. This change record includes the modification of attribute X of an entity X and the creation of a new entity Z. Subsequent change records processed in the same batch include modification of a further attribute X of entity X and a second modification to attribute X of entity X. Furthermore an attribute Z of the newly created entity Z is also modified.

In this example attribute X of entity X is therefore changed twice. For the present example it is assumed that entity X represents a network device in network and attribute X corresponds to a configuration parameter of the device. It may then be the case that there is no need to carry out separate configuration operations for each of the two changes of the parameter. Instead it will typically be sufficient to perform a single configuration operation which updates the parameter to the most recent applicable value. The most recent value is obtained from the inventory . Specifically the inventory model stores the end state of the model as a result of all the changes that have been made to it. The change records record each individual change made to the inventory model so where a sequence of changes are made to an individual modelled entity the model records the net change whereas the change records record each individual change.

In the present example it may further be possible to perform the changes to attributes X and X of entity X in a single device configuration operation. Similarly it may also be possible to carry out the creation of new entity Z and its subsequent modification in a single configuration step.

Using the above approach the implementation subsystem generates a set of configuration actions for efficiently implementing the inventory changes. In the example two actions are generated an update action updating attributes X and X of entity X using the currently valid attribute values as obtained from the inventory model and a create action creating a new entity Z with attribute Z also set to the currently applicable value.

In one embodiment the change records need not specify all the details of the changes made to the inventory such as the actual values to which attributes are changed. Instead they may merely specify the entities and attributes that have been modified. Implementation subsystem then accesses the modified entities in inventory and retrieves the required data from there. Even if the change records do contain more detailed information of the changes for example for verification and auditing purposes they are preferably used by the implementation subsystem only to identify the relevant changes in the inventory. As much information as possible is preferably obtained from the inventory directly.

For example where a model entity represents a network device and a change record relates to modifications to configuration parameters of that device the implementation subsystem uses the change record as an indication that the configuration has changed but not how it has changed. Instead it retrieves the latest configuration of the device from inventory and uses that information to update the configuration of the device accordingly.

By obtaining the configuration data directly from inventory model the system can ensure that the configuration state of the network corresponds exactly or at least more closely to the inventory model . As a result the inventory model controls the configuration state of the network rather than being a passive record of the network. This approach can avoid discrepancies arising between the inventory model and the network .

In some embodiments change records may include more information than is used by implementation subsystem . For example the change records may provide full details of the changes made to the inventory model. In addition to their use by implementation subsystem fully detailed change records have a separate value in that they provide an audit trail for changes to the inventory model.

Configuration changes are implemented in the network by the implementation subsystem by generating configuration instructions for the specific devices in question corresponding to the abstract configuration actions shown in in whatever command format is appropriate to the devices. These configuration instructions are then transmitted over the network to the devices. Devices may send acknowledgements that configuration instructions have been received and carried out or may transmit failure messages where requested changes could not be completed allowing the implementation subsystem to identify where problems may arise which could lead to discrepancies between the inventory model and the network. The implementation subsystem may then record these identified problems in the inventory model and or bring them to an operator s attention. In addition other activities such as changes to other systems or manual activities can be initiated by the implementation subsystem e.g. by interaction with external systems as mentioned above using the same approach to thereby take further advantage of the efficiencies provided by the intelligent grouping performed by the implementation subsystem.

Thus where inventory changes require physical changes to the network such as installing new equipment or manually wiring connections the implementation subsystem may interface with a manual build subsystem to request those changes. The manual build subsystem schedules the necessary activities e.g. ordering equipment and booking an engineer and receives confirmation on completion which is passed back to implementation subsystem . Implementation subsystem awaits confirmation of completion of the installation before proceeding with any further modifications which depend on the newly added network resource.

An example implementation of the network planning application will now be described in more detail with reference to . In this embodiment the planning application is referred to as the Planning Engine.

One purpose of the Planning Engine as described in this example is to drive network evolution in accordance with operational strategy. The following describes the solution architecture of this capability.

Many carriers have begun the process of migrating their traditional networks into so called next generation networks. Due to the major investment required to achieve such a fundamental shift in the network it is desirable for key strategic decisions to be captured and applied in a planning process that is informed by both future demand and existing infrastructure.

It is believed that such a planning function can be best achieved as an extension to a universal inventory. This can provide a credible platform for addressing the long term challenge of both planning rollout and ongoing strategic operation of the network. The aim is to construct an automated planning process coupling a Planning Engine with the more detailed resource planning beneath.

The Planning Engine can provide improvements in the management of network evolution in particular with regard to the changes taking place for rollout and operation of next generation networks. The approach described aims to achieve this through integration with the inventory enablement of a repeatable process rather than once only designs the modelling of service with respect to capability as well as capacity and an understanding of the full cross domain problem space.

The Planning Engine forms the uppermost module in the network engineering stack and follows the principles of a business driven network where decisions are made in each system on data that are only as detailed as is necessary. The Planning Engine module is the master of high level network change and passes planning requests to the resource planning inventory for detail design and realization. The Planning Engine is enabled by the underlying network inventory data for initial abstraction load and ongoing utilization data. Tools are provided to visualize and manage the data and to undertake high value network analysis functions.

Traditionally network planning assumed stable relationships between network domains and their associated technologies. Network planning was conducted in a domain by domain fashion each such domain normally a technology specific exercise. New networking technologies were introduced as an overlay to a current technology domain.

The current network planning processes however typically need to cover a host of new networking technologies e.g. VOIP VPLS PWE . An important issue now is how to make the transition into a next generation network and ongoing operation of that network. Reducing capital expenditure for telecommunication networks by using new technologies means combining the need to simplify the network i.e. replace or at least converge legacy services such as FR and ATM by new data VPNs and the drive to increase the range of service types. Understanding and considering the coexistence of old and new can be important. Network planning guides incremental planning to a strategic vision allowing migration to and ongoing maintenance of a changed network structure.

While telecom markets have become much more mature in terms of competition and customer focus the services contained in each telecommunications product map less rigidly into a dedicated associated network technology. A telecommunications product can comprise many different components. Each end to end service might make use of different underlying network technologies e.g. Internet Connectivity through IP DSLAM vs. ATM DSLAM in different access regions of the network though both connected to the public Internet through an MPLS core.

Furthermore competition is forcing convergence various telecommunications services are being migrated onto a shared technology infrastructure. Network planning now usually needs to maintain end to end metrics in particular on service quality which are calculated across network domains and technologies.

Through bandwidth increasingly being considered a cheap commodity the importance of capacity as the major measure for network cost has been complemented by networking capabilities . A key decision in network planning is where to put or co locate different network capabilities and how to ensure connectivity with appropriate redundancy levels between them. Modern telecommunications products and their associated services each require access to a number of capabilities. The capability placement decisions together with the capability requirements for each service determine the traffic flows in the network. The capability placement decisions and their associated resilience requirements strongly impact network cost both by themselves and through their impact on capacity demand.

The advent of next generation networks has taken the requirements for network planning solutions far beyond their roots. The focus has shifted away from sophisticated mathematical optimization algorithms derived from graph theory towards cross domain network modelling and built in support for adoptable and repeatable planning processes.

The OSS architecture for a Tier 1 operator in the Resource Engineering and Service Fulfilment stacks can be represented as in .

The resource engineering planning stack comprises three components that are relevant to planning network evolution 

The Planning Engine is responsible for planning decisions for both major changes and ongoing incremental refinement based on long term trends demands strategic policy and abstracted network data from Resource Planning. The Planning Engine outputs planning requests to Resource Planning and generally acts to automate higher level functions required by Resource Planning.

Resource Planning is responsible for converting planning requests into detailed plans. A detailed plan in Resource Planning is actualized by passing physical planning requests to Physical Planning and logical requests to the fulfilment stack. Resource Planning is synchronized with Physical Planning and the fulfilment domain managers and inter domain manager. Resource Planning will update network planning changes in these domain managers. The Planning Engine extracts and abstracts Resource Planning data to support its function.

Physical Planning is responsible for the physical layout and cabling of the network infrastructure including power cooling and space requirements for both outside plant and within buildings.

The present example is concerned primarily with the Planning Engine within the context set out in . The Planning Engine is designed to facilitate ongoing network evolution and refinement by directing day to day growth in accordance with a strategic intent using inventory data as a key enabler. This is based on market forecasts and an understanding of the planned network structure and topology and its utilization trends.

The Planning Engine is cross domain and multi technology. A network may be conceptually split into domains such as access backhaul and core. The Planning Engine can enable this split to be defined and adhered to. The network will also typically comprise a multiplicity of layered and intersecting technology topologies. The Planning Engine capability can enable the management of the evolution of these network layers.

Planned extensions to the network are made in the Planning Engine and passed down as planning requests to the Resource Planning platform for detailed design. The network can then be proactively managed according to operational policies. Network utilization data is fed back to planning to complete a closed loop of network evolution.

It is this access to inventory data and coupled process that empowers the Planning Engine process. The Planning Engine can also interact with marketing systems to receive market forecasting data and feedback actual utilization and with ERP to set budgetary requirements and enable decisions on expenditure.

The Planning Engine can manage networks on a green field or brown field basis and the ongoing evolution of those networks.

Objects are planned in the Planning Engine at abstract level for example introduction of locations or circuits between locations. These abstract objects are managed according to the map stored in the Capability Plan. The Planning Engine is master of these abstract objects for capacity capability affecting changes and their introduction to removal from the network. The utilization of these objects is synchronized with an underlying inventory and held on each object.

Initially utilization data is populated in the Planning Engine from Resource Planning . The utilization data on an object records utilization over time. The utilization information is updated by marketing forecasts and is used to drive network demand inputs. Marketing forecasts are improved by feeding back service utilization trending data .

The service demands are then mapped onto underlying domains using a map of location based capability the Capability Plan .

The network evolution is then planned for each domain and its capacity requirements. The planning system can be validated against the underlying inventory data and exceptions raised to the user.

The deltas i.e. differences to the abstract network are captured as planning requests. A manual checkpoint and dialogue to ERP systems for budgetary level validation may follow before the request is passed down to the Resource Planning system for detailed design .

The loop with Resource Planning is closed when the utilization data is passed back to Planning Engine . A synchronization capability is provided between Planning Engine and underlying Resource Planning to flag any exceptions to this process V .

Initial data load of the Planning Engine is possible from the Resource Planning system over the same interface or manually within the Planning Engine.

The Planning Engine can facilitate the planning of the future evolution of the network taking input from current network utilization and capacity usage the projected future network demand and the operator s forward looking technology strategy. The key objective is to facilitate ongoing network capacity and capability management e.g. adjusting the network to make sure that enough capacity will be available to accommodate the forecasted demand and expected network load.

The Planning Engine applies across all network domains with the objective of determining required changes to the current structure and what additional capacity and capability within the individual domains will be needed in order to support the projected demands. In general the main use case is the non greenfield situation since an existing network with already installed and partially used network resources typically needs to be taken into account.

Network evolution planning is typically carried out on an abstracted view of the network represented in the logical network inventory e.g. master inventory . Abstraction is mainly driven by data aggregation e.g. bulk object model collapse and simplifications. The level of abstraction may vary and depends on the type of use case and application scenario for example bulk capacity estimation vs. fine grained capacity adjustment .

In general the planning process is organized in a step by step fashion and performed against distinct planning domains. These planning domains represent an appropriate partitioning of the overall network which reflects the different network segments involved in delivering a certain type of service. Each planning domain is characterized by a certain technology for example ATM GEthernet MPLS .

A typical planning domain topology is characterized by a partitioning of the network into a converged packet core and geographically separated backhaul aggregation domains with gateway and service enabling functions at metro nodes.

An architectural principle of the solution is to provide a flexible configurable framework for the Planning Engine. This framework is preferably extensible and comprehensive.

This section describes aspects where the present approach for planning is different from existing approaches.

Traditionally network planning is performed offline. The gap in functionality and data between the NMS and the planning applications is too wide for simple upload interfaces. Mediation to the various NMSs and an additional consolidation function are too expensive.

Additionally driving an offline planning system from out of date snapshots of the network increases the risk of failure.

The present solution for planning uses the inventory functions in particular the master inventory or inventory model as shown in to keep the data accurate and enabling an effective network engineering process.

Traditionally network planning is performed on a network snapshot with optimization determining near simultaneous one off local optimizations in order to achieve an approximate global cost minimum for the network captured in the snapshot. The lifecycle of planning consisted of a sequence of usually un correlated snapshots.

The present solution can support a repeatable planning process both in a periodic and perpetual manner. In particular planning decisions can be stored re used in repetition runs and can be open for re evaluation.

Each planning proposal typically requires many atomic decisions each of which is usually a selection of a very limited number of options e.g. should there be a direct link on layer x between location A and B . The present solution builds an audit trail of decisions and allows rollback of these decisions and capture of processes as templates.

In that respect the Planning Engine preferably also stores a repository of planning decisions whose re use is enabled via process templates.

Traditionally network planning focuses on network capacity i.e. the objective is to determine the necessary capacity within and between locations on a per domain basis. The objective of planning was to determine a cost minimized network i.e. an appropriate network topology and associated capacities on a per layer basis . Cost of capacity was the driving force.

The present solution for planning preferably combines network capabilities such as voice call features in the call servers with network capacity and QoS related network metrics. This implies a cost model which can contain cost items that are not capacity related at all.

Traditionally network planning follows a sequential process optimizing the overall network in a sequential layer by layer process.

From a pure capacity perspective this de composition approach can work. However as a single end to end service now travels across various stacks of network technology the present approach preferably supports 

Many COTS products for planning are dedicated to a subset of network types e.g. mobile wireless or fixed wireline. Consolidation of historically grown networks onto converged platforms will typically result in a mix and match of network technology stacks.

The present solution for planning is preferably configurable in terms of the network technology stack it can support.

The proposed Planning Engine solution comprises a set of interacting solution components. Each of these components accesses data in a common repository and provides a consistent interface through APIs the Process Engine and through the GUI. The solution components are illustrated in .

The solution architecture is conceptually split into three tiers as shown in . There is a data tier an application tier and an interfacing tier. Within these tiers there are a number of major blocks and sub components. These are listed below 

Demand Forecast Analysis this comprises demand forecasts due to Network utilization and Market forecasting and the amalgamation of these demands into a common framework of service demand matrices in Network service forecast.

Network Domain Planning Equipment Mapping resolves the demand on a domain onto the supporting network resources without the need for the detailed equipment models found in Resource Planning. Management of the topology of the network is undertaken in Structure planning. Comparison with current utilization data in the data repository leads to delta capacity plans managed in Capacity planning. Network Data Repository comprises the data supporting planning. The Data Store comprises the network data on which planning takes place at the level of abstraction required for planning purposes. The Capability Plan describes the strategic intent in terms of location and technology capability and domains. It provides a simple yet comprehensive way of modelling at a summary level a large scale telecommunications network. This allows the strategic network planners to decide the strategic intent of the network and its exploitation policy at the outset of network design. It then directs the ongoing plan of the network to be constructed in accordance with these rules. These rules are derived from a common network strategy which also determines how the network is utilized. They are captured as data and are applied either as network is constructed automatically or manually.

Historically it has not been possible to adopt a bottom up approach to summarizing network models based upon ITU T G.805 and TMF 513 608 814. This bottom up approach has struggled because of a lack of abstraction so attempts have tended to focus on solutions that preserve the greatest amount of information.

The Capability Plan uses a top down approach taking into account the operational or business and technical requirements which are validated as supporting the needs of the network resource operator and Service Provisioning architecture. The absence of detail in the model means that it does not need to be permanently synchronized with the Resource Planning system providing a level of decoupling that benefits the overall architecture.

Network Construction kit this describes the rules by which the data in the store is constructed and is composed of three sub component libraries Domain library Equipment library and Capability Model.

Process Support comprises Scenario Management which describes the rules by which planned scenarios are managed within a time line Collaborative framework which manages user access and responsibility Planning Records and Rollback which captures changes and enables rollback and Process Engine which can be used to capture processes with automatic and manual intervention. Network Analysis comprises Network Validation which provides the capability to analyze network designs with respect to their compliance to the intended planning rules Failure Simulation which provides the capability to analyze and verify the current network or a proposed network design for the extent of network failures Demand Sensitivity which provides a sensitivity analysis of network forecasts based on variations in service forecasts from marketing or network utilization and Network Cost Model which provides a framework for describing a network and its sub items in terms of cost . The network cost model allows for assigning cost to both capacity and capability related network items. It supports cost items of both capital and operational expenditure. It thus can deliver expenditure data for profit loss related calculations as well as for cash flow investment related calculations. The cost model delivers both

The removal of capacity management responsibility from the Capability Plan can help to create a summary model of the network. Without capacity to consider detailed logical and physical information can be omitted.

Each object type can be sub typed so that a particular Capability Plan can be adapted to address specific technologies or provide an appropriate level of granularity. This is achieved in the Capability Model. For example specialist Technology Capabilities and Logical Capabilities are normally created for MPLS Ethernet and so on. However it is possible to go further and create network roles such as backbone and access within the Technology Capabilities if required.

Planning Domains group together locations of like purpose. These represent a flexible method of splitting the network into functional blocks. For example Access domain backhaul domain and core domain are useful splits of a next generation network an example of this is illustrated in .

This represents an administrative arrangement of other Area Locations and Site Locations. An important concept associated with an Area Location is that all Logical Capabilities see below that exist at Site Locations within Area Locations can be connected without recourse to outside agencies. This delegation of responsibility to local field engineering enables the Capability Plan to summarize its model further because local physical connectivity between technical domains can be omitted from the model.

Therefore an Area Location has a single operational owner from a physical planning perspective. Area Locations may be hierarchical so that complex physical and organizational structures can be represented.

A Site Location is a place where equipment can be located. However as no actual equipment is referenced in the Capability Plan this concept has some flexibility. It may be a central CO a point of presence POP or a customer location. A site location usually represents an equipment room not necessarily a site.

Interconnections within a location can be assumed or can be explicitly captured between abstract devices. Non connectable floors can be captured by explicitly excluding such interconnections.

This represents the high level or strategic view of the location. It includes the routes between Area Locations which is a technology independent indication of the potential physical connectability of Area Locations. It is similar in concept to strategic cables or ducts.

It also includes an aggregated record of the space power and cooling that is present at the location and is available for use by new network facilities. This gives the planner a good indication of what capability can be deployed at a location and the extent it can be used for strategic growth.

This is an abstracted view of technology that is present or that is strategically available at a Site Location and represents the capability of the network.

Note The presence of a Technology Capability does not imply the presence of equipment or capacity. It implies that the location can be used to site equipment with a particular capability.

Technology Capabilities are connected by Logical Capabilities. They are logical pathways in the network. They represent the aggregate of all connections that join things together and record the total capacity provided by the aggregated Technology Capabilities and the capacity available for new service.

These rules are captured as metadata and are applied as the Capability Plan is constructed automatically or manually. For example location types can be defined in metadata with the associated allowed capability types. The Capability Plan will then construct data instances of locations of a given type with capabilities as permitted.

The effect of these metadata restrictions may be configurable. For example certain rules may be mandatory others are recommendations with warning levels. This will allow the user to knowingly build local instances that do not follow the intent of the capability plan. The Network Validation component provides functionality to report on deviations from the capability model.

The Planning function preferably provides a complete GUI implementation to facilitate user interaction. Users can preferably browse data manage planning objects report on plans and planned network and manage the planning cycle. Low and high level planning functions are supported in a controlled manner via wizards.

Each solution component is preferably delivered by using a coherent set of one or more GUI Tools e.g. wizards to create data items and interactive navigable reports on the data. The specific types of tools will vary for each solution component.

The scope of data is preferably configurable and the export preferably has a scheduler for initiation.

A comprehensive API is preferably provided for undertaking all planning activities. The wizards within the Planning application also make use of these APIs. These APIs exist at each logical layer of the application providing flexibility in terms of automation lower level API calls and integration coarse grain service based interfaces .

One feature of the proposed Planning Engine is the ability to utilize inventory data and provide a coupled process between planning and inventory.

These three modes may be further classified as an Import Validate Strand and a Planning Request Strand.

The Export Validate strand is initiated in the Planning Engine to retrieve data from the inventory. This may be either for an initial or new load of data or for a targeted validation of a portion of network on which a scenario has been constructed. This data extraction is preferably MTOSI compliant.

Planning may require common terms of reference for the data passed over the interface. This is achieved by a mapping between the systems that is not necessarily 1 to 1 due to the data abstraction.

The Plan strand is to initiate new build requests updates and cancellations from Planning and accept Plan status updates from Design. These requests take the form of requests for 

Some functions and capabilities of the Inventory Interface component are set out below these may be provided independently or in any combination 

Plans for network enhancements or changes can have significant impact on Network Engineering budgets within a telecommunications service provider network operator. Planning decisions are therefore preferably visible to ERP systems. Furthermore many network operators have a checkpoint in ERP with a go no go decision point for any major plans.

The level of detail held in the Planning Engine is typically insufficient to supply a full bill of materials to ERP. For this level of detail Resource Planning may be a better source of data. The Planning Engine preferably does hold high level costing data and can approximate the timing and cost of adding new capability at a location. This can typically be useful for setting budgets for the year ahead etc. rather than for proceeding with a specific equipment order.

To support these business functions the Planning Engine preferably supplies plan data for new build and at least supplies a holding state for plans in the Planning engine awaiting a go no go decision. Optionally this interface can be automated.

An external Marketing function may supply market demographic data or product and network service forecast data into the Planning Engine s Demand Forecast Analysis components.

As marketing forecasts are often distrusted within the telecommunications community the Planning Engine can also supply data on Service Utilization trending back to Marketing. This information can provide an effective feedback mechanism which can enable forecasting to be improved.

The interface for Marketing data import into the Planning Engine is via file import. The file format is XML according to a predefined schema.

The interface from the Planning Engine to Marketing may be a report of Service Utilization trending made available to the external system.

The above describes features of an example implementation of the network planning application . However the network planning application can be implemented in a variety of different ways.

More generally it will be understood that the present invention has been described above purely by way of example and modification of detail can be made within the scope of the invention.

