---

title: System and method for adaptable multimedia download resulting in efficient airlink usage
abstract: Apparatus and methods provide for a way to intelligently maximizing capability for a media download service over a wireless network. An available bandwidth of the wireless network is estimated and compared against a threshold. If the available bandwidth is above a predetermined threshold, the service is operated in a high bandwidth mode. If the bandwidth is not above a predetermined threshold, the service is operated in a low bandwidth mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08903407&OS=08903407&RS=08903407
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08903407
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061125
---
The present invention relates generally to wireless communication and more particularly to taking advantage of network bandwidth for a media download service.

The system also includes a mobile switching center MSC . The MSC is in communication with each of the BTSs and with the carrier network of the wireless carrier operating the BTSs and the MSC . The carrier network may include one or more routers for coupling the carrier network to other networks not illustrated . Examples of the other networks may be other voice and data networks including for example another wireless carrier s network a land line carrier s network and or a data network such as the Internet. The system may also include a media server which will be described in greater detail below. The system provides voice and data based services to the wireless devices . Accordingly the wireless network provides the capability for routing voice and data between the wireless devices .

The wireless device also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The ASIC is also coupled to the bus and is used to operate and control the wireless device.

Now referring back to the system may also include a media server . The media server would typically be used to support a media download service where subscribers are billed for downloading target media from the media server to other devices such as the wireless devices . Since many wireless devices are capable of playing audio files one example of a media download service is a music download service where each target media may be a musical track for example a song or an instrumental track. As illustrated the media server is shown as being part of the carrier network . However it should be understood that the media server may be located anywhere else as long as there is network connectivity between the wireless devices and the media server . For example the media server may be located at over the Internet not illustrated and the network connectivity between the wireless devices and the media server may be provided via the router .

Each target media is generally encoded in accordance with an encoding scheme to reduce the file size of the target media to a more manageable size and perhaps to support a digital rights management scheme. Most encoding schemes permit the target media to be encoded using a range of encoding rates. Typically the use of higher encoding rates permit higher fidelity reproduction but comes at a cost of greater data storage space and longer download times. Similarly the use of lower encoding rates reduces reproduction fidelity but occupies less data storage space and permit faster downloads. Thus for each target media the media server may store a plurality of encodings. For example a low data rate encoding may be stored for streaming music a middle data rate encoding may be stored for downloading to portable music players and a high data rate encoding may be stored to permit a user to create a recordable compact disc. Further the media server may also store additional information related to the target media such as album art lyrics music videos etc.

Over the years there has been a number of improvement made to the wireless communication system . In particular new air link interfaces have been introduced to the wireless communication system to permit high speed data transmission. Additionally new air link interfaces are being designed to further permit even higher speed data transmission wirelessly. Yet despite these advances in air link throughput media downloading services have not taken advantage of the new increased bandwidth. Accordingly there is a need and desire for a way to intelligently maximizing capability for a media download service over a wireless network.

The disclosed embodiments provide apparatus and methods for intelligently maximizing capability for a media download service over a network. In one aspect the invention includes a method for maximizing capability for a media download service over a network comprising estimating a bandwidth of said network comparing said bandwidth against a predetermined threshold if in said step of comparing said bandwidth is greater than said predetermined threshold operating said media download in a high bandwidth mode. In another aspect the invention includes a method for operating said media download in a low bandwidth mode if the available bandwidth is not greater than said predetermined threshold.

In yet another aspect the invention is directed to a wireless device comprising a bus a radio transceiver coupled to said bus for interfacing said wireless device with a wireless network a user interface coupled to said bus a memory coupled to said bus said memory storing a media player and a high bandwidth air link maximizer for controlling a download of a target media for said media player and an ASIC coupled to said bus said ASIC configured to control said radio transceiver user interface and memory wherein said high bandwidth air link maximizer is configured to estimate a bandwidth of said wireless network compare said bandwidth against a predetermined threshold causing said download to operate in a high bandwidth mode if said comparing determines that said bandwidth is greater than said predetermined threshold.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a wireless device comprising a bus means a radio transceiver means coupled to said bus means for interfacing said wireless device with a wireless network a user interface means coupled to said bus means a memory means coupled to said bus means said memory means storing a media player and a high bandwidth air link maximizer means for controlling a download of a target media for said media player and an ASIC means coupled to said bus means said ASIC means configured to control said radio transceiver means user interface means and memory means wherein said high bandwidth air link maximizer means is configured to estimate a bandwidth of said wireless network compare said bandwidth against a predetermined threshold if said comparing determines that said bandwidth is greater than said predetermined threshold causing said download to operate in a high bandwidth mode.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a computer readable medium storing instructions thereon the instructions comprising instructions for estimating a bandwidth of a wireless network instructions for comparing said bandwidth against a predetermined threshold instructions for operating a media download in a high bandwidth mode if in said step of comparing said bandwidth is determined to be greater than said predetermined threshold operating a media download in a high bandwidth mode.

Now referring to the drawings where like reference numerals designate like elements there is shown in a wireless device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The wireless device can be substituted for the wireless device in the wireless communication system .

The wireless device includes a radio transceiver for wirelessly communicating with one or more BTSs of the wireless communication system . The radio transceiver is coupled to a bus .

The wireless device also includes a user interface which is also coupled to the bus . Typically the user interface includes a display a small keyboard a microphone and a speaker. However one skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced using different user interfaces.

The wireless device also includes a memory which is coupled to the bus . The memory may store code for supporting an application programming interface API . In one embodiment the API is the API associated with QUALCOMM Inc. s BREW platform however one skilled in the art will recognize that the invention may be practiced in wireless devices which support other APIs.

The contents of the memory may also include one or more built in applications and memory space for receiving one or more downloadable applications. In particular the contents of the memory includes a media player application . The media player application is capable of playing different media types and preferably designed to be compatible with downloadable compressors decompressors codecs to permit the media player to operate on new file types. In one embodiment the contents of the memory further include a High Bandwidth Airlink Maximizer and a Low Bandwidth Airlink Maximizer . The High Bandwidth Airlink Maximizer and the Low Bandwidth Airlink Maximizer will be respectively explained in greater detail below in connection with .

The wireless device also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC which controls the radio transceiver user interface and memory via the bus .

One skilled in the art would understand that the architecture of the wireless device can be varied without departing from the scope of the invention. For example some potential variations include having multiple radio transceivers have multiple memory unit include for example different types of memory units such as a DRAM base memory unit and a non volatile memory unit for example a FLASH EPROM EEPROM or ROM memory unit. In some embodiments at least part of the memory may be embodied on the ASIC . Further the ASIC may be a plurality of ASICs or some combination of a non ASIC chip and one or more ASICs.

At step S an estimate of available bandwidth is obtained. In a wireless device the wireless network may support multiple air interfaces. For example a wireless network may support a low speed interface primarily for voice communication e.g. IS 95 TIA EIA 95 cdmaOne or GMS and one or more high speed interfaces such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS IS 856 Evolution Data Optimized EV DO High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems UMTS . Each air interface is associated with a particular bandwidth or a range of bandwidths. In one embodiment an estimate of available bandwidth is made in accordance with which type of air interface is being utilized for communication between the wireless device and the BTS with which the wireless device is communicating with.

Further for some of the air interfaces the available bandwidth may be further dependent upon an external factor. For instance with the EV DO air interface the available bandwidth may vary as a function of the distance between the wireless device and the BST in communication with the wireless device . That distance may be calculated since the location of each BST is known and the location of the wireless device may be calculated using a number of techniques including for example use of signals received from global positioning satellites GPS or use of some combination of triangulation angle of arrival and or time of arrival techniques on signals transmitted between the wireless device and a BST . In one embodiment an estimate of the available bandwidth is made in accordance with both the type of air interface as well as accounting for external factors known to affect bandwidth. Once the available bandwidth has been estimated process proceeds to step S.

At step S the estimated available bandwidth is compared against a predetermined threshold level. The predetermined threshold level is a parameter which may be set by the wireless carrier or the media download service which operates the media server. If the estimated available bandwidth is greater than the predetermined threshold the process proceeds to step S while if the estimated available bandwidth is not greater than the predetermined threshold the process ends after proceeding to step S.

At step S the media download service is operated in accordance with a high bandwidth mode. That is the media download service is operated to take advantage of opportunity presented by having a high bandwidth connection. For example in high bandwidth mode the wireless device may perform opportunistic downloads use higher encoding rates swap for higher encoding rates and or pull supplemental materials. Each of these techniques are described in greater detail below. After step S the process proceeds to end at step S.

Many music download services are capable of predicting what songs a consumer may like and wish to purchase or hear based upon the listening or purchasing history of that consumer. An opportunistic download refers to a download process which also obtains preview portions of songs which the consumer is predicted to like. A preview portion of a song may be for example the first 30 seconds of a song. However one skilled in the art would recognize that the invention may be practiced by selecting the preview portion from any portion of the song. In one embodiment the wireless device performs opportunistic downloads when the wireless device is in the high bandwidth mode.

As previously noted the use of higher encoding rates permit higher fidelity reproduction but comes at a cost of greater data storage space and longer download times. However with ever increasing storage capacity available for wireless devices and with the recent increases in wireless network bandwidth wireless devices are compatible with the use of higher encoding rates. In one embodiment when a high bandwidth air interface is available the wireless device instructs the media server to download a copy of the media encoded using a higher encoding rates in lieu of downloading a copy of the media having a lower encoding rate.

If certain media content had been originally obtained using a lower encoding rate and the availability of high bandwidth would permit exchanging the existing media with media having identical subject matter but a higher encoding rate. In one embodiment when a high bandwidth air interface is available the wireless device replaces previously downloaded material encoded at a low encoding rate with corresponding content having a higher encoding rate.

The media server frequently stores other information associated with each media. Examples of other information may include art videos and lyrics associated with each song. In one embodiment when a high bandwidth air interface is available the wireless device also downloads at least one of the art video and lyrics associated with media being downloaded.

At step S an estimate of available bandwidth is obtained. Step S is identical to step S which was previously described. Once the available bandwidth has been estimated process proceeds to step S.

At step S the estimated available bandwidth is compared against the predetermined threshold level described previously in connection with step S of . If the estimated available bandwidth is not greater than the predetermined threshold the process proceeds to step S while if the estimated available bandwidth is not greater than the predetermined threshold the process ends after proceeding to step S.

At step S the media download service is operated in accordance with a low bandwidth mode. That is the media download service is operated to be sensitive to the network link having relatively little network bandwidth. In one embodiment the previously described opportunistic downloads using higher encoding rates swapping for higher encoding rates and pulling supplemental features are disabled because these additional features were enabled only in the high bandwidth mode. In another embodiment one or more of the previously described opportunistic downloads swapping for higher encoding rates and pulling supplemental features are enabled but performed only during a predetermined time period such as a wireless carrier s off peak hours. After step S the process proceeds to end at step S.

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the above disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alternations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention.

For example while the application has discussed an application of the principle of the invention with respect to wireless networks and in particular air interfaces one skilled in the art would recognize that the invention may also be practiced in a wired network environment. By means of an example digital subscribe lines DSL lines have varying bandwidths which is partially a function of the length of the local loop between a subscriber and the subscriber s central office. Thus the length of the local loop is somewhat analogous to the distance between the wireless device and its BST in an EV DO environment and the principles of the present invention could be applied to a wired DSL network.

Further while the illustrated embodiment utilize a single parameter to determine whether to use the high or low bandwidth airlink maximizer one skilled in the art would recognize that the principles of the present invention would be applicable to the use of more than two airlink maximizers. Such a system would also use more than one parameter for setting thresholds to determine which airlink maximizer to use.

Accordingly the invention is not limited by the foregoing description or drawings but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

