---

title: Automated ampoule breaking device
abstract: An automated ampoule breaking device includes a carriage having an opening for receiving and securely retaining a substrate in a substantially upright position, wherein the substrate includes at least one flexible compartment each having an outlet at the lower end and at least one ampoule contained therein; and at least one movable projection operatively associated with the carriage, wherein each of the at least one projection adapted for applying sufficient pressure progressing from the upper to the lower end of the corresponding flexible compartment to crush the at least one ampoule and direct the contents of the crushed ampoule out of the respective flexible compartment through the outlet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07445753&OS=07445753&RS=07445753
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07445753
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060328
---
The present invention relates to devices for breaking ampoules and more particularly to an automated ampoule breaking device for releasing contents of one or more ampoules at appropriate time intervals in a predetermined sequence.

Generally an ampoule is a vial like container hermetically sealed to hold substances that may be sensitive to the external environment or ambient air. The ampoule may be formed from glass or plastic materials suitable for preserving the hermetic seal over an extended time period. For glass ampoules the ampoule is typically sealed by melting the thin top usually with a blowtorch flame after filling and most commonly used as a container for perishable products such as pharmaceuticals. Some ampoules are designed with a score mark around the neck so that the sealed top may be simply snapped off by hand while others are pre packaged in a flexible outer container which may optionally contain a secondary substance. In the latter form the user can safely break the ampoule s within the flexible container. The contents of the broken ampoule are then released into the flexible outer container for dispensing.

In biological or chemical detection systems testing reagents are used for detecting the presence of compounds in samples. To ensure reliability and minimize false results a sufficient amount of testing reagents are need to properly react with the sample. Glass ampoules have been used in field testing scenarios to portably hold chemical testing reagents in pre measured amounts. Such ampoules are effective in maintaining a hermetic seal to prevent contamination by the environment prior to testing and can be cleanly broken to release the reagents in the amounts needed without measuring during the chemical test. They are particularly efficient for their portability ease of use and flexible storage capabilities and advantageous for use in field testing operations particularly where test users are typically required to wear cumbersome protective gear in a potentially hazardous environment.

The M256 series of chemical agent detector kits including the M256 and M256A1 utilizes glass ampoules for storing and dispensing chemical testing agents to test the presence of noxious and toxic chemicals. These kits are available from manufacturers Truetech Inc. of Riverhead N.Y. and Anachemia Chemicals Inc. of Rouses Point N.Y. The kits are manually operated and form an essential element in chemical warfare agent defensive measures for personnel. The kits are used to detect hazardous concentrations of blood agents e.g. hydrogen cyanide cyanogens chloride nerve e.g. G class and V class and blister agents e.g. mustard phosgene oxime in both vapor and liquid form. In this manner the kits can be used to indicate to the user whether it is safe to remove the protective mask or as a confirmatory test after a chemical agent alarm has sounded.

The M256 has two primary test components the vapor sampler and M8 detection paper. The components are designed to allow the user in full protective gear to perform the chemical agent tests. All the chemical test reagents needed to test the vapors and aerosols are stored within ampoules contained in the vapor sampler s body. The M8 detection paper is specifically designed to provide a testing surface to support the reaction between the chemical testing reagents and the chemical agents including toxic blood nerve and blister agents in liquid aerosol or vapor form and produce a uniquely colored response. The colored response indicates to the user whether a chemical warfare agent is present.

Although the M256 kits provide an affordable reliable and prompt chemical detector they are costly and very labor intensive to implement and also prone to human errors due to the conditions under which the tests are implemented. To minimize such errors it is normally recommended that two users conduct the kit test one manually performs the chemical testing while the other reads the instructions for the test kit to the first user. Generally the users must follow detailed and precise instructions with multiple steps involving many physical and mechanical manipulations performed in a set chronological timed sequence. With the protective gear the users are typically wearing the users ability to perform the tasks is severely reduced. Collectively these factors significantly encumber the users ability to perform any chemical detection task. Typically hazardous material teams have highly trained but limited personnel resources which can be consumed to perform the operations required by the M256 chemical agent detector kit.

A prior art chemical testing device having a testing surface is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 228 657 issued to Genovese et al. The device taught by Genovese et al. includes a crushing mechanism for breaking ampoules containing chemical testing reagents attached to a collector element similar to the vapor sampler s body of the M256. The crushing mechanism includes a movable spring or solenoid powered member adapted for shattering the ampoule to release the chemical testing reagents through a channel onto the testing surface. In some instances the crushing mechanism is unable to release the chemical testing reagents when the ampoule is only partially broken or when a portion of the ampoule retains all if not most of the reagent and prevents the reagent from flowing freely down the channel. Moreover the device still requires the users to manually perform many physical and mechanical manipulations in a set chronological timed sequence.

Accordingly there is a need for an automated ampoule breaking device designed to effectively break ampoules at an appropriate time interval in a predetermined sequence during the implementation of chemical or biological detection testing while directing the flow of the contents of the broken ampoules onto a testing surface in an automated manner. There is a further need for an automated ampoule breaking device capable of greatly simplifying operating procedures in testing for the presence of hazardous materials such as chemical and or biological agents in the field in a manner that enhances reliability and reproducibility while reducing the complexity the labor and the costs associated with such tests.

The present invention relates generally to an automated ampoule breaking device useful for enhancing the breaking of ampoules and reliably emptying the contents of the broken ampoules onto a targeted area. The ampoules may contain flowable reagents for implementing biological and chemical testing. The automated ampoule breaking device of the present invention effectively increases the capability of currently available methods for implementing field testing of chemical and biological agents while reducing personnel requirements and costs typically associated with such methods. The automated ampoule breaking device of the present invention is compact portable and modular for easy assembly and operation in a short period of time. The present invention reduces the cost time and labor associated with monitoring and detecting compounds of interest and expanding the detection capability of the corresponding system in a simple and effective manner while maintaining high levels of accuracy reliability and reproducibility.

In general the automated ampoule breaking device of the present invention includes a carriage for receiving and retaining a substrate having one or more ampoules enclosed in flexible compartments and at least one ampoule breaking mechanisms that is adapted to selectively break the ampoules at an appropriate time in a predetermined sequence and thereafter actively emptying the contents of the broken ampoules from the flexible compartment. The automated ampoule breaking device of the present invention may further include a programmable microprocessor for initiating the breaking of the ampoules in a sequential manner at appropriate times.

In one aspect of the present invention there is provided an automated ampoule breaking device the device comprising 

a carriage having an opening for receiving and securely retaining a substrate in a substantially upright position said substrate including at least one flexible compartment each having an outlet at the lower end and at least one ampoule contained therein and

at least one movable projection operatively associated with the carriage each of said at least one projection adapted for applying sufficient pressure progressing from the upper to the lower end of the corresponding flexible compartment to crush the at least one ampoule and direct the contents of the crushed ampoule out of the respective flexible compartment through the outlet.

In another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for automating the breaking of ampoules the method comprising the steps of 

providing fluid pathways from each flexible compartment to a selected one of said plurality of test surfaces and

automatically selectively rotating a cam head against one or more of said flexible compartments at predetermined times to crush said ampoules and

directing the contents of the ampoules from the flexible compartments through an associated fluid pathway to an associated test surface.

The present invention is directed to an automated ampoule breaking device for breaking one or more ampoules at appropriate times in a predetermined sequence and ensuring that the content of the broken ampoule is directed to the corresponding target area. In particular the automated ampoule breaking device is designed to enhance the performance and capability of chemical detection systems including but not limited to those using a form of collection elements or substrates containing ampoules referred herein as the Environmental Material Tickets EMT e.g. vapor sampler of the M256 .

The automated ampoule breaking device of the present invention ensures that the ampoules containing chemical testing reagents in the form of a flowable substance including liquids and solid particles are properly broken at appropriate time intervals in a predetermined sequence and the reagents are then urged from the broken ampoules to the proper testing surfaces as required by the particular chemical detection system. In this manner the present invention operates to extend the detection capability and reliability of such chemical detection systems while reducing the complexity the manual labor and the costs needed to implement such systems and increasing accuracy precision and repeatability of results flowing therefrom.

The device of the present invention is designed to specifically minimize or eliminate the problems and limitations associated with manual implementation of the ampoule based tests by human users or operators where the user is expected to conduct the test while in protective clothing that restricts physical movement. This includes for example wearing protective face masks which can impair the user s field of vision and acuity and wearing bulky chemical resistant gloves which can limit the user s finger dexterity and strength. These and other limitations can adversely affect the user s ability to break the glass ampoules and manipulate the ampoule contents. These difficulties are further compounded by the constant presence of elevated mental and physical stress coupled with working in a chemically contaminated emergency environment.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided an automated ampoule breaking device that comprises a carriage having an opening for receiving and securely retaining a substrate in a substantially upright position wherein the substrate includes at least one flexible compartment each having an outlet at the lower end and at least one ampoule contained therein and at least one movable projection operatively associated with the carriage wherein each of the at least one projection is adapted for applying sufficient pressure progressing from the upper to the lower end of the corresponding flexible compartment to crush the at least one ampoule and direct the contents of the crushed ampoule out of the respective flexible compartment through the outlet.

Referring to an Environmental Material Ticket EMT in the form of a vapor sampler from the M256 chemical agent detector kit is shown and identified generally by reference numeral . The EMT is used to test vapor and aerosol samples for the presence of nerve agents blood agents and blister agents. It is the primary testing device in the M256 kit. Each issued kit includes twelve EMTs individually sealed in a plastic laminated foil envelope. Once used the EMT is discarded. The EMT generally includes a substrate having five fluidly sealed flexible compartments three test surfaces and and fluid channels or ducts all of which are molded into the substrate . The flexible compartment is adapted to collapse when sufficient force is applied thereon. The fluid channels provide a fluid connection between the flexible compartments and the corresponding test surfaces and .

The EMT further includes six glass ampoules securely enclosed in the flexible compartments and optionally a lewisite tablet rubbing tab and tablet not shown . The glass ampoules each contain chemical testing reagents that react in a predictable manner with the vapor or aerosol forms of chemical warfare agents including nerve blood and blister agents. The test surfaces and are suitably located on the substrate to minimize cross contamination and ensure that each are suitably exposed to the suspect vapor. To assist the user in identifying the test conducted each test surface and is shaped differently.

To implement the test the glass ampoules contained in the corresponding flexible compartments are broken at the appropriate times in a predetermined chronological sequence. The reagents released from the broken glass ampoules are urged through the corresponding channels and onto the respective test surface or by squeezing the flexible compartment . Once the reagents reach the test surface or they can react with the sample contained thereon. In order to obtain reliable test results the chemical test reagents should be released in amounts sufficient to substantially saturate the test surfaces and . Further details about the EMT can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 228 657 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference to the extent that it does not conflict with the teachings of the present invention.

Referring to an automated ampoule breaking device or device identified generally by reference numeral is shown for one embodiment of the present invention. The device of the present invention is constructed to automate the chemical testing method corresponding to the EMT and employs a combination of mechanical and electronic subsystems to implement the test feature of the chemical detection system. The mechanical subsystem is designed to reliably break and completely crush the glass ampoules to release the contents thereof. The mechanical subsystem further ensures that the content released from the crushed ampoules is directed to a desired target location i.e. test surface through the channel molded into the substrate .

The electronic subsystem is designed to provide the source of energy required to break the glass ampoules and control the precise movements of the mechanical subsystem. The electronic subsystem further automates the operation and eliminates the need for a human user or operator to manually crush the glass ampoules and repetitively squeeze the flexible compartments of the substrate to expel the contents of the crushed glass ampoule onto the test surface and .

The device is intended for operation in association with any chemical detection system utilizing ampoule equipped EMTs that are designed to collect and analyze sample compounds primarily in the vapor or gaseous phase. A suitable example of an EMT based chemical detection system is the M256 chemical agent detector kit previously described above which provide self contained point detection of a range of chemical agents. Although the present invention is described for use in context with the EMT forming part of the M256 chemical agent detector kit it may readily be modified for use and operation with any similar substrates containing ampoules.

The device can be composed of any suitable durable chemically resistant material capable of withstanding a range of environmental conditions temperatures and physical forces and is preferably composed of metal and plastic extruded or molded material. The device can be readily assembled or constructed using commercially available off the shelf components.

The device comprises generally a carriage having a top opening for receiving and securely retaining the EMT a camshaft assembly including a camshaft operatively engaged to a plurality of cams for implementing the ampoule breakage and a view window extending through the lower end of the carriage for viewing and monitoring the test surfaces and during testing.

The carriage includes a back wall to provide rear support to the EMT in the top opening . The device may further include a microprocessor not shown a motor controlled by the microprocessor not shown through a motor controller not shown a worm gear assembly operatively engaged to the camshaft assembly and the motor for efficiently transferring mechanical power supplied by the motor to the camshaft . The motor may be selected from any suitable motor capable of rotating at very precise positions or rotating by precise angles including electric motors such as for example a stepper motor a servomotor a synchronous motor and an induction motor and preferably a stepper motor. The EMT is maintained in the upright position by the device to ensure that the reagents released from the ampoules are free to move downwardly by gravity feed through the channels to the test surfaces and below. Once the test is completed and the results read the EMT can be removed from the device and discarded and replaced with a new one.

The carriage further includes a motor mount for retaining the motor in a fixed position. The motor operates to rotatively drive the camshaft via the worm gear assembly . The drive shaft of the motor is axially oriented perpendicularly to the camshaft . The worm gear assembly includes a worm gear forming part of a drive shaft of the motor and a worm gear forming part of the camshaft . Under the power of the motor the worm gear of the drive shaft engages and drives the worm gear of the camshaft . The camshaft and the cams rotate in response to the movement of the worm gear assembly . The worm gear assembly increases the mechanical torque thus permitting the use of smaller motors of lower weight and power and thus decreasing the overall size of the device .

The cams are each positioned along the camshaft in front of the flexible compartments with the back wall providing support to the rear side of the substrate . Each of the cams may be rotationally positioned offset from one another to facilitate the breaking of ampoules in a predetermined sequence. Each of the cams are adapted to exert a force at a point of their rotational cycles against the substrate and more specifically against the flexible compartment containing the ampoule as will be further described hereinafter.

The cams each include a roller disposed at the end thereof and retained by a pin extending through the projecting portion thereof. The pin facilitates rotation of the roller upon contact with a work surface. The roller operates to substantially reduce friction between the cam and the corresponding flexible compartment and the ampoule and to efficiently and effectively focus the force exerted as will be further described hereinafter. It is preferable that each of the cams moves in a manner where the force exerting portions of the cams sweeps from an upper position to a lower position relative to the ampoule . The number size and timing of the cams may be modified as needed for each application and depending on the configuration and the number shape and size of the ampoules provided on the substrate.

Each of the cams have associated therewith upper and lower sliding pins and extending through a corresponding sliding mount of the carriage . The upper and lower sliding pins and are slidably movable in a reciprocating manner through the sliding mount . Each of the upper and lower sliding pins and are operatively engaged to upper and lower springs and respectively coiled therearound. The upper and lower springs and are maintained under compression by respective stop caps and disposed at the ends of the sliding pins and respectively and normally biases the respective sliding pins and in the outward direction away from the carriage .

Referring to each of corresponding pair of upper and lower sliding pins and see extends through their respective sliding mounts of the carriage and are pivotally attached to an impact plate . The impact plate moves back and forth in an oscillating motion within the top opening in response to the movement of the respective cam . The impact plate is adapted to contact the flexible compartment and crush the ampoule as it moves toward the back wall of the carriage . The impact plates each further include a resilient contact surface . The resilient contact surface may be composed of a rubber material to yield a pliable texture surface for completely pulverizing the ampoule while exerting consistent pressure to uniformly squeeze the contents of the broken ampoule from the flexible compartment into the channel .

The upper and lower springs and of the respective pins and are normally under compression by the stop caps and respectively and operate to urge the impact plate away from the substrate of the EMT as the cam retreats. During operation the cams are adapted to rotate and selectively move the respective impact plates toward the back wall and against the corresponding ampoules of the flexible compartments for facilitating breakage at the appropriate times in a predetermined sequence as will be further described hereinafter.

Referring to an ampoule breaking unit forming part of the camshaft assembly is shown in greater detail with the substrate of the EMT occupying the top opening of the carriage . The substrate of the EMT includes the ampoule enclosed within the flexible compartment and the channel in fluid communication with the ampoule and the corresponding test surface see . The rear side of the substrate is positioned flushed against the interior side of the back wall of the carriage . The upper and lower sliding pins and are each attached to the upper and lower ends of the impact plate via pivots and respectively. The pivots and provide the impact plate with a greater degree of lateral movement relative to the cam as will be further described hereinafter.

The cam includes a projecting portion rotatable in the clockwise direction in accordance with the movement of the camshaft and the roller extending from the distal end of the projecting portion to reduce frictional resistance with the impact plate . The projecting portion may be configured to strike the impact plate at one or more points along its circular path. The cam can be a simple tooth for example or an eccentric disc or other shape that produces a smooth oscillating motion in the impact plate .

As the projecting portion and roller contacts the impact plate the pivots and allows the upper end of the impact plate to initially move against the upper portion of the ampoule where the resilient contact surface makes initial contact. As the cam rotates further the projecting portion and roller presses the impact plate and the resilient contact surface against the ampoule . This drives the ampoule against the back wall of the carriage . The force is applied continuously until the ampoule breaks and the resilient contact surface is forced against the back wall of the carriage thereby expelling the contents of the ampoule through the channel and out of the flexible compartment . Once the cam is rotated through 180 degrees the impact plate is urged back to the resting position away from the broken ampoule by the upper and lower springs and via the upper and lower sliding pins and respectively.

The camshaft assembly includes the upper and lower springs and at the upper end and the lower end of the impact plate . The upper pivot and the lower pivot provide the impact plate with the greater freedom of lateral movement. Furthermore it is preferable that the upper spring exhibits a lower spring rate than the lower spring . This ensures that the initial movement of the impact plate is limited to the upper end thereof until the ampoule is broken. As the upper end of the impact plate contacts the back wall the lower end of the impact plate begins to move against the ampoule . The progressive contact by the impact plate forces and directs the contents of the ampoule down the flexible compartment to the channel .

Each of the ampoule breaking units of the device can be cascaded together on the camshaft thereby enabling the breakage of multiple ampoules sequentially or en masse simultaneously. The cams can be indexed 90 degrees apart thus permitting the cams to break the ampoules at different times to suitably apportion the force needed to break all the ampoules .

As noted previously each of the cams includes the roller at the projecting portion to reduce the overall force needed to break the ampoules and to reduce the frictional resistance between the cam and the impact plate . Additionally the impact plate may further include a puncture member not shown located proximately the upper end thereof. The puncture member not shown is adapted to puncture the upper end of the flexible compartment to allow pressure to equalize therein thus allowing the contents of the ampoule to flow freely from the flexible compartment . Although the device of the present embodiment is described to include five ampoule breaking units the size indexing and positioning of the cams and the number of ampoule breaking units may be modified depending on several factors including but not limited to the particular application requirements the number and configuration of the ampoules and the breakage sequence of the ampoules.

The cams are driven by the motor that may be a continuously rotating synchronous motor energized by an AC or DC source however it is preferably a stepper motor using a single position switch not shown to set a home position. The motor is controlled by the microprocessor not shown through a motor controller not shown for precise control timing and accuracy. In an alternative embodiment the motor may be replaced with a manually powered hand crank mechanism attached to the drive shaft for enabling manual hand powered operation. Alternatively the hand crank mechanism can be attached directly to the camshaft obviating the need for a worm gear assembly. In this manner the user can drive the camshaft and the cams to implement the ampoule breaking sequence.

Referring to the device comprises a microprocessor a motor controller a stepper motor and an ampoule breaking assembly forming part of the camshaft assembly . When the device is powered up for operation and an EMT is inserted into the top opening the microprocessor sends an initial trigger signal to the motor controller . The microprocessor can be activated when an EMT is inserted into the device . The motor controller in response to the trigger signal transmits a pulse signal or sequence of pulse signals to the stepper motor . This energizes the stepper motor and causes it to rotate in response to each pulse signal a set angle very precisely. The ampoule breaking assembly driven by the stepper motor moves the corresponding cam against the impact plate to crush the ampoule and draw the contents down the channel onto the testing surface or . The microprocessor re initiates the process described above after lapsing of a pre set time interval. In this manner the microprocessor allots the appropriate amount of time for the reagents from the broken ampoules to react with the sample on the testing surfaces and . The process is thus repeated in a sequential manner for each stage of the ampoule breakage at the appropriate time intervals.

Referring to an example of a timing diagram corresponding to the motor of device is shown for illustrating one mode of operation. In this example the motor controller generates a pulse or pulses to energize the stepper motor and initiates the breaking of the centermost four ampoules generally designated as 3 ampoules in and directing the contents thereof to associated testing surface or . Once any ampoule is broken the device directs the reagent to an associated one of the test surfaces or . The microprocessor monitors the device for about ten minutes and generates another initiating signal to the motor controller to apply pulses to the stepper motor to break the remaining outermost ampoules designated as 5 ampoules in in this example. The amount of time between pulses may vary depending on the desired sequence for breaking the ampoules which is not limited to the aforesaid example and is tailored to the particular application. Note that the cams are angularly offset from one another in a manner to provide a desired ampoule breaking sequence.

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

