---

title: System and method for controlling one or more multipoint control units as one multipoint control unit
abstract: A system for controlling multiple multipoint control units (MCUs) with a single apparatus is disclosed. The system utilizes a Virtual MCU (VMCU) to communicate with a plurality of MCUs. A user initiates a reserve conference command with the VMCU. If sufficient resources are available, the reservation is made and connection numbers are assigned. When the time for the conference arises, an MCU is assigned to the conference. The participants are then connected to the conference. By using a single VMCU to schedule and coordinate multiple MCUs, the system is able to efficiently schedule a large number of conferences. This greater efficiency in scheduling may allow users to schedule conferences without the advance notice that is usually required.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843550&OS=08843550&RS=08843550
owner: Polycom Israel Ltd.
number: 08843550
owner_city: Petach-Tikva
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20061218
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 708 898 filed Nov. 8 2000 which is hereby incorporated by reference including any drawings as if fully set forth herein.

This invention relates generally to multimedia communication and more specifically to a system and method for controlling multiple multimedia communication systems from a single control point.

As the geographical domain in which companies conduct business continues to expand video teleconferencing technology attempts to bring the world closer together. However to fully satisfy the requirement of having a face to face meeting it is necessary for the video conferencing technology to provide real time multipoint conferencing that is a pleasure to utilize. However in multipoint video conferencing one main obstacle is the inefficiency of scheduling conferences.

In the current market most multipoint video calls are scheduled in advance through companies that own Multipoint Control Units MCUs . An MCU provides the capability for three or more terminals and gateways to participate in a multipoint conference. If a company owns more than one MCU it has more flexibility in hosting video conferences. However each MCU must be operated independently from the other MCUs in setting up and controlling video conferences. Additionally the capacity of each MCU is limited to video conferences controlled by that MCU. The resources of the multiple MCUs cannot be combined to promote more efficient scheduling.

Each MCU is able to communicate with multiple conference participants. In an exemplary system the MCU has ten participant slots and thus can support ten users. The MCU may be configured so that more than one conference is going on at one time. For instance a four participant conference and a five participant conference can be simultaneously supported on an MCU with a capacity of ten participants. Due to inefficient scheduling many MCUs have extra capacity that cannot be used. In the example above the MCU has capacity for ten participants but only nine participants are scheduled for conferences.

One reason why most multipoint video calls are scheduled in advance is that there is a low probability of successfully finding an open MCU quickly without prior scheduling. This probability is low largely because a conference scheduler must contact each MCU separately to attempt to initiate a video conference. If a large number of MCUs could be contacted simultaneously the probability of finding an available MCU quickly and initiating an unscheduled video conference would be greatly increased. Additionally if an MCU could share its excess capacity with another MCU more conferences could be accommodated. The availability of this feature would facilitate escaping the bonds of scheduled video conferences and allowing impromptu video conferences to abound.

Therefore it is evident that there is a need in the art for a system and method for operating multiple MCUs from a single control point. This will reduce the burden on any single MCU and allow greater ease in initiating a video conference.

Therefore it is also evident that there is a need in the art for a system and method for operating multiple MCUs from a single control point to schedule conferences on multiple MCUs in such a way as to minimize the number of unused participant slots on each MCU.

Therefore it is also evident that there is a need in the art for a system and method for operating multiple MCUs from a single control point in a manner that will allow video conference initiation without the need for prior scheduling.

The present invention overcomes the above described problems in the prior art by providing a single apparatus that is capable of controlling a plurality of multipoint control units. This promotes efficient use of all of the MCUs because they are controlled and scheduled from a single point. Additionally by combining the MCUs and controlling them from a single point the probability of successfully scheduling an impromptu video conference is greatly increased.

The MCUs are interconnected to a common controlling Virtual MCU VMCU . This VMCU controls all of the connected MCUs and is used to schedule and coordinate video conferences on all of these MCUs. The VMCU can be a separate unit or one of the MCUs.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU is able to identify reservation factors for each conference to be scheduled. The reservation factors may include but are not limited to start time duration of the conference number of participants protocol type bit rate and terminal type.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU is able to identify capability factors for each of the multimedia terminals and each of the corresponding MCUs. The capability factors for the multimedia terminals include but are not limited to the type of terminal the supported Codecs and the speed of the terminal. The capability factors for the corresponding MCUs include but are not limited to the number of participants that can be included in conferences the terminal types that can be supported and the speed of the MCU the number of free audio bridges the number of free Codecs and the number of free video mixers. The number of free audio bridges and free video mixers refer to remaining capacity that each MCU has with respect to audio and video capabilities. Each MCU can either initiate or receive a call. The MCUs are responsive to a command from a multimedia terminal to initiate a multimedia communication between at least two of the multimedia terminals.

The VMCU can compare the capability factors for each of the multimedia terminals to the capability factors of the corresponding MCUs connected to the VMCU to determine an optimum assignment of resources for a video conference. The VMCU will be alerted when the time to start the conference has arrived. Upon being alerted that the time to start the conference has arrived the VMCU rechecks the resources of the MCUs compares them to the needs of the conference. The VMCU may change the assigned MCU at the last minute before the conference starts. The VMCU may either direct communication between the terminals and the MCU throughout a conference or it can transfer the terminal to the MCU and allow the terminal and the MCU to communicate without interaction through the VMCU.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent upon reading the following detailed description of the embodiments of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and appended claims.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like parts throughout the several views exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described.

H.323 is a packet based multimedia communications protocol. More information about communication protocols can be found at the International Telecommunication Union ITU web site http www.itu.int. An H.323 terminal provides for real time two way communications with another H.323 terminal or an MCU . H.323 terminals support the communication of control status audio moving color video pictures and or data. Depending on the scenario an H.323 terminal may provide speech only speech and data speech and video or speech data and video.

H.320 is a communication protocol that uses narrow band visual telephone systems and terminal equipment. An H.321 terminal is an adaptation of an H.320 visual telephone terminals to a B ISDN environment. The VMCU can support various types of connectivity. illustrates connecting through a switched network an Intelligent Network IN an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network and or a LAN Internet networks and can be the same network. Network may be connected via a gateway to a switched network and may be connected via a gateway to an ATM network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the VMCU may be connected to an MCU through the aforementioned methods or any other connection that supports the transmission requirements of the MCUs.

A circuit switched network or switched network is a network in which a physical path is obtained for and dedicated to a single connection between two endpoints in the network for the duration of the connection. Endpoints include all network elements that can generate or terminate information streams. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention endpoints include but are not limited to telephones terminals gateways MCUs and VMCUs. Ordinary telephone service is circuit switched.

An IN is a telephone network architecture originated by Bell Communications Research in which the service logic for a call is located separately from the switching facilities allowing services to be added or changed without having to redesign switching equipment.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU system supports a TCP connection to the MCUs . It may include an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Primary Rate Interface PRI module and another LAN connection to the IN .

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU communicates over a LAN Internet through a gatekeeper . The gatekeeper is an H.323 entity on the network that provides address translation and controls access to the network for H.323 terminals H.323 Gateways and MCUs . The Gatekeeper may also provide other services to the terminals Gateways and MCUs such as bandwidth management and address resolution for Gateways.

An H.323 Gateway provides for real time two way communications between H.323 Terminals on the packet based network other Terminals on a switched circuit network or to another H.323 Gateway . Other Terminals include those complying with ITU recommendations such as H.310 H.320 on B ISDN H.320 ISDN H.321 ATM H.322 GQOS LAN H.324 GSTN H.324M Mobile and V.70 DSVD .

The VMCU may either control all of the VMCU functions described herein or it may use an external management system to control various functions of the VMCU . In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention an external management system may be used to operate the reservation system associated with the VMCU .

The Conference Reservation Manager accepts requests for visual session reservations and uses the reservation parameters to verify that it can be accepted. The Conference Reservation Manager then stores the reservation record in the database . If the session has to start immediately the Conference Reservation Manager passes the information to the Conference Manager .

The Conference Manager starts a session when the session s time to start arrives. The Conference Manager loads the session onto the target MCU via the MCU API and gets status information from all of the MCUs concerning ongoing sessions. The Conference Manager can accept requests for dial in conferences and route the requests to the correct MCU or accept Intelligent Network IN requests for routing information. The Conference Manager may route H.323 calls by forwarding H.225 and H.245 messages to the selected MCU or gatekeeper or by serving as a termination point for a call.

The Resource Allocation Manager keeps the information concerning the MCUs resources i.e. audio bridges video mixers etc. and allocates the resources to conferences. The Resource Allocation Manager also calculates resource availability for future reservations.

The Event Manager receives messages such as call start call terminate etc for the different MCUs and stores the messages in a database .

The Reporting Manager builds reports. The reports may include but are not limited to length of time resources were used which resources were used for a specific session and percentage of resources used during a specified time period. The reports are built upon the receipt of a report request from the Internet server .

The System Administrator serves as an input tool for VMCU parameters. The VMCU parameter may include but are not limited to the number of MCUs controlled by the VMCU the MCU addresses and the MCUs resources.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU databases include databases for reservations users and any other data required for the operation of the VMCU . Database can be an external Database including but not limited to a Database using LDAP or ILS. A virtual API enables clients to do one or more of the following tasks reserve conferences start an impromptu conference control on going conferences and receive usage information. The aforementioned tasks may be completed from a standard web browser . The browser interacts with an Internet server that uses the virtual API .

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU offers users a web based tool enabling a user leading a conference to connect to the VMCU and monitor and control the conference remotely. The VMCU works as a proxy for the user by getting the information and sending controls to the actual MCU supporting the conference. The end user does not have to know which MCU is supporting the conference.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a VMCU communicates with MCUs through an MCU application program interface MCU API .

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention can operate within a four phased video conference system. The four phases include Configuration Conference reservation Conference scheduling and Conference Control.

During the configuration phase an operator enters configuration information for the MCUs into the VMCU . Completing the configuration enables the VMCU to verify and allocate resources for the conference during the reservation and scheduling phases.

The Conference reservation Conference scheduling and Conference Control phases will be discussed in conjunction with the following figures.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU is able to identify reservation factors for each conference to be scheduled. The reservation factors may include but are not limited to start time duration of the conference number of participants protocol type bit rate and terminal type.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU is able to identify capability factors for each of the multimedia terminals and each of the corresponding MCUs . The capability factors for the multimedia terminals include the type of terminal codec type and the speed of the terminal. The capability factors for the corresponding MCUs include the number of participants that can be included in conferences the terminal types that can be supported and the speed of the MCU the number of free audio bridges and the number of free video mixers. The number of free audio bridges and free video mixers refer to remaining capacity that each MCU has with respect to audio and video capabilities. Each MCU can either initiate or receive a call. The MCUs are responsive to a command from a multimedia terminal to initiate a multimedia communication between at least two of the multimedia terminals .

If the Conference Reservation Manager of the VMCU determines that there are enough resources available to host the conference processing then continues at step . At step the VMCU determines how the participants will connect to the conference when it is time to start the conference. There are several conference connection options including dial in dial out and network connection. In the dial in connection option the participants dial an assigned number associated with the MCU assigned to host the conference and or a conference Alias. In the dial out connection option the MCU assigned to host the conference dials each of the participants. In the network connection option both the participants and the MCU are connected to a network and they communicate through that network. The network can be any type of network including LAN Internet Intranet or other networks. The conference can also be initiated by all parties contacting the VMCU and the VMCU will handle communications.

At step if the conference is a dial out conference the VMCU records the telephone number of the participant so that the assigned MCU can initiate a call to the participant at the scheduled start time for the conference. Alternatively the VMCU can initiate a call to each participant and control the communication between the assigned MCU and the participants. If the conference is a dial in conference type the VMCU assigns a dial in number to the participant and notifies the participant of the assigned number. This dial in number is usually the dial in number for the MCU reserved for the conference. Alternatively the VMCU may assign a number to dial in to the VMCU or a different MCU and then forward the call to the correct MCU when the conference starts. H.320 terminals will use this number to dial into the assigned MCU . Additionally the conference may be scheduled over an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN line or over a computer network. In these cases the participants will connect to the conference over the ISDN lines. The ISDN number will point to one of the preferred MCU s for the conference. It may optionally be a special number in cases where the system supports IN connectivity. The number will be used as an E. alias by the H.323 terminals to call through a gatekeeper . The ISDN number will be translated to the correct ATM number during call setup in an H.321 terminal .

After the VMCU has determined that there are sufficient resources available to host the conference and the reservation has been approved the VMCU stores the reservation date reservation time participant names dial in numbers the MCU s assigned and any other applicable information into a reservation database . This reservation database is available to the VMCU to set up the conference when the start time arrives. The reservation database may also be accessed if the VMCU needs to change the information such as assigning a different MCU in order to create a more efficient schedule. Such a modification to the reservation database may be necessary when multiple conferences can be combined on MCUs to minimize the number of unused participant slots during a conference. For instance if a six participant conference is scheduled on an MCU with ten participant slots and a four participant conference is scheduled on a different MCU then these two conferences can be moved to a single MCU with ten participant slots and all of the participant slots will be used. Thus this aspect of the present invention optimizes the efficiency in the use and scheduling of conference resources.

Additionally the VMCU may be configured to allow a single conference to be initiated across multiple MCUs . When the VMCU operates in this manner not all participants will be connected to the same MCU but they will all be able to communicate with each other as the various MCUs are cascaded by the VMCU . This aspect of the present invention allows a greater number of participant slots on each MCU to be scheduled. This aspect further allows for the support of large conferences that include more participants than a single MCU can accommodate. More particularly this aspect of the present invention allows the VMCU to operate as a single MCU that is as large as the sum of all of the available participant slots on all of the connected MCUs . Typically this aspect of the present invention is only used after conferences have been efficiently combined on the available MCUs and the remaining capacity of the MCUs is insufficient to support an additional conference.

When the VMCU receives multiple conference requests the VMCU determines how to assign the conferences to the available MCUs . For instance the VMCU receives three conference requests for conferences requiring resources for conferences of sizes A B and C where A B and C represent the number of participant slots needed by each conference. If two MCUs are available and the two MCUs have X participant slots and if A plus B is greater than X and B plus C is less than or equal to X then the VMCU assigns the conference of size A to a first MCU and the conferences of sizes B and C to a second MCU. If two MCUs are available and the two MCUs have X participant slots and if A plus B is greater than X A plus C is greater than X and B plus C is greater than X then the VMCU assigns the conference of size A to a first MCU the conferences of size B to a second MCU and assigns the conference of size C to a VMCU wherein the VMCU controls the remaining participant slots on the first and second MCUs as an additional MCU.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the VMCU first optimizes the conference scheduling by combining conferences together onto a single MCU . After the MCUs are scheduled as fully as possible the VMCU schedules the remaining MCU resources to conference participants as if the remaining resources comprised an additional MCU . These remaining resources are then cascaded by the VMCU .

If the conference is a dial in conference the VMCU then either signals the MCU corresponding to the dial in number assigned to the conference to accept the conference or the VMCU provides the MCU with a number to forward the call to if the VMCU decides to run the conference on another MCU . If the conference is a dial out conference the VMCU will notify the assigned MCU which numbers it should dial to contact the desired participants. If the conference is a dial in conference and the conference has been moved to a different MCU the VMCU may either direct the reserved MCU to notify the participants of the new dial in number or if the MCU is connected to an ISDN network that has a call forwarding service the MCU may be used to forward the call. If call forwarding is used the VMCU will send a call forward request to the local exchange serving calls to the MCU . Call forwarding on an ISDN line can be signaled during the call setup or before the call by providing a special code to the exchange. The special code identifies the number to which to forward the call. For H.323 conferences the VMCU will register the H.323 conference alias on the gatekeeper . For H.321 conferences the VMCU will register the H.321 ATM numbers with the ATM . In the case of an IN based solution the VMCU will notify the IN of the real destination number associated with the allocated dial in number.

After the conference has been assigned to an MCU the VMCU will get the first participant for the conference . If the participant is not a dial in participant the VMCU will provide the dial out number to the assigned MCU to enable the assigned MCU to initiate a call to the participant. The dial out number is available from the reservation database as recorded during the conference reservation phase. If the participant is a dial in participant the next action of the VMCU will depend upon what type of terminal is being used. If the dial in terminal is an H.320 terminal processing continues at step of . If the dial in terminal is an H.321 terminal processing continues at step of . If the dial in terminal is an H.323 terminal processing continues at step of .

In addition to the dial in and dial out options described above the participant may connect to the conference by directly dialing the VMCU . If the participant dials the VMCU directly the call will either be forwarded to the assigned MCU as described in or the VMCU will handle communications with the assigned MCU through the network connecting the VMCU to the assigned MCU . After the first participant is secured for the conference the VMCU will repeat the process for each additional participant.

The present invention provides the ability to schedule and initiate a conference or other event through a VMCU. The VMCU is designed to accept reservations and schedule conferences for a multitude of MCUs. This enables the VMCU to schedule the conferences in an efficient manner and to maximize the number of conferences scheduled at any particular time. The present invention has been described in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Those skilled in the art will understand that the principles of the present invention may be applied to and embodied in various program modules for execution on differing types of computers and or equipment operating in differing types of networks regardless of the application.

Alternate embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its spirit and scope. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is described by the appended claims and supported by the foregoing description.

