---

title: Grid network management via automatic trend analysis of a service level agreement
abstract: A method for managing a GRID network. The method includes performing trend analysis of a job type repeatedly processed by the GRID network to anticipate a future load on the GRID network associated with the job type. The job type is associated with a service level agreement (SLA). At least one internal performance metric of the GRID network is measured to monitor current GRID network status. The future load that is anticipated is compared with the at least one performance metric to predict future satisfaction of the SLA.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07672923&OS=07672923&RS=07672923
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07672923
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061031
---
GRID computing is a method of harnessing the power of many computational resources in a network. GRID computing involves large scale geographically distributed heterogeneous resources and involves resource sharing by applications and or high performance processing and network bandwidth. As such a GRID computing environment or network enables sharing of loosely coupled resources and services required by various applications in a large scale environment.

Traditionally GRID computing has provided for the execution of batch jobs in the scientific and academic community. Batch execution on a grid computing environment requires authentication authorization resource access resource discovery and other services. In support of batch processing of jobs on a grid computing environment protocols services application programming interfaces and software development kits have been developed.

However although specifications such as Open Grid Service Infrastructure OGSI provide for the basic functionalities of a GRID network these specifications do not provide sufficient detail in the management of quality of service provided to the client within the GRID network. Experience shows that query times in single instance data bases can vary over several orders of magnitude depending no a large number of factors. In a distributed database environment this problem is further exacerbated. Moreover within the traditional GRID network implementing a distributed database environment it is difficult to determine or commit to a defined level of performance. For instance the conventional GRID network includes one layer of job scheduling software which is unaware of the current state of the resources in the GRID network. This confines the GRID network to processing specialized computing applications with dedicated machines instead of a distributed model.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention a method and system for managing a GRID network examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present invention.

Accordingly various embodiments of the present invention disclose methods and systems for performing predictive behavioral modeling of the GRID network to satisfy service level agreements SLAs associated with clients using the GRID network. Other embodiments of the present invention provide for the above accomplishments and also provides standard metric via established test jobs and real jobs to measure performance and simultaneously gather environmental data of the GRID network that is stored in a metadata repository. Performance profiles are built over time to create predictable service levels under a variety of loads in order to satisfy SLAs.

Embodiments of the present invention can be implemented on software running on a computer system in conjunction with an optical imaging system. The computer system can be a personal computer notebook computer server computer mainframe networked computer workstation and the like. This software program is operable for providing offset vectors used in determining the alignment of two or more material layers. In one embodiment the computer system includes a processor coupled to a bus and memory storage coupled to the bus. The memory storage can be volatile or non volatile and can include removable storage media. The computer can also include a display provision for data input and output etc.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits that can be performed on computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations or instructions leading to a desired result. The operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present invention discussions utilizing terms such as determining processing measuring or the like refer to the actions and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device including an embedded system that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Referring now to a data flow diagram is shown illustrating the implementation of an exemplary GRID network in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. GRID network consists of a plurality of heterogeneous execution nodes distributed across multiple administrative domains. That is the plurality of heterogeneous execution nodes reside in remote locations that are coupled together through a communication network such as the Internet. The plurality of heterogeneous execution nodes can be configured in any type of formation for example a plurality of clusters of nodes. The plurality of execution nodes is managed by a grid distributed resource management DRM system .

In one embodiment the plurality of heterogeneous execution nodes are distributed across multiple administrative domains. A client may access remote nodes either in the same administrative domain or across domains. In particular in the data flow diagram of an end user or client submits a job request for execution to the GRID DRM through a submission node . For example the job request may access a database e.g. relational database object oriented relational database etc that is distributed on one or nodes throughout GRID network . On receiving the job request from the client the GRID DRM selects one or more remote execution nodes in the plurality of heterogeneous execution nodes for processing the job request.

As shown in system includes an SLA manager for performing trend analysis. SLA manager performs trend analysis of a plurality of jobs of a particular job type that is repeatedly processed by the GRID network. For instance a client may repeatedly submit jobs of a particular job type for execution in GRID network . As previously described the job type may be associated with accessing a database e.g. relational database object oriented relational database etc that is distributed GRID network .

Additionally an SLA can be associated with execution of the job type for a client. The SLA is associated with GRID network performance in handling execution of the plurality of jobs associated with the job type. In one embodiment the job type includes test jobs that are submitted by SLA manager. In another embodiment the job type includes real jobs submitted for processing by GRID network . For instance an SLA can represent expectations and responsibilities of different parties involved about the functionality and performance of GRID network in handling execution of the plurality of jobs associated with the job type handled by a particular client.

In particular SLA manager monitors external performance metrics related to the submission and execution of the plurality of jobs. For example in one embodiment the performance metric is related to the time taken by GRID network to process each job associated with the job type. In particular a return time is monitored and recorded for processing each of the plurality of jobs.

Trend analysis of the execution of the plurality of jobs is performed. In this manner the present embodiment is capable of anticipating at least one future load on the GRID network that is associated with execution of the job type handled by the client. The future load defines anticipated load conditions on the GRID network related to the processing of the plurality of jobs associated with the job type handled by the client. As such the present embodiment is capable of tracking load conditions placed on GRID network and predicting or anticipating future load conditions.

In embodiments of the present invention any conventional technique for performing trend analysis is implemented to determine trends associated with the submission of the plurality of jobs associated with the job type handled by the client. For example processes performed in the area of data mining can be employed to perform trend analysis of the access of a database distributed throughout GRID network .

In one embodiment SLA manager designs the test jobs for submission to GRID network . That is SLA manager defines the configuration and parameters of performance metrics associated with the test jobs. Execution of the test jobs provides characterizations of GRID system under various load conditions in a controlled environment.

In another embodiment SLA manager is able to provide reporting whether GRID network satisfies the SLA. That is SLA manager provides performance reports by gathering each of the SLAs associated each SLA with a client and a particular job type and reporting the performance metrics related to each of the SLAs under various load conditions over a time period.

The system also includes at least one resource manager for monitoring past and current status of GRID network . In particular a history of performance metrics is established for GRID network . In particular resource manager measures at least one internal performance metric of a node e.g. computing resource server memory storage router etc. of GRID network . The performance metrics include but are not limited to throughput resource utilization storage capacity storage availability etc.

In addition system includes a predictive behavior modeling module for comparing any future load that is anticipated and at least one internal performance metric to predict satisfaction of the SLA associated with the client. That is given the current conditions or status of GRID network and considering any anticipated load conditions related to executing of jobs associated with the job type handled by the client the present embodiment is able to predict whether the SLA associated with the client can be satisfied at some time in the future.

In particular predictive behavior modeling module includes a profile builder that is capable of determining predictable service levels under various load conditions. As such profile builder is capable of generating a plurality of profiles that predict satisfaction of the SLA under various load conditions as predicted by the anticipated load conditions that are presented to GRID network .

As such based on the predictive modeling the system can determine a proper course of action to ensure satisfaction of the SLA. In particular system includes an action analyzer not shown that determines an action to implement based on whether said SLA is satisfied under any anticipated future load.

For example under one exemplary scenario access of a distributed database may be instituted through one node of GRID network . That is under current load condition the associated SLA is satisfied even though the database is distributed across one node of GRID network . However if predictive behavior modeling module anticipates heavier load conditions indicating an increase of job requests related to the SLA the present embodiment is able to distribute the database across multiple nodes in order to provide increased access to the distributed database. Redistribution of the database may occur during period of lesser activity on GRID network as predicted by the predictive behavior modeling module . Also the distributed database may be duplicated across multiple nodes in GRID network to provide additional access avenues to the database.

In addition system includes a metadata repository for storing results from the trend analysis preformed by SLA manager and performance metrics monitored by resource manager . In particular metadata repository keeps records of metric job performance data determined by SLA manager and resource manager metric job configuration and parameters current system status determined by resource manager GRID resource library and performance reporting.

At the present embodiment performs trend analysis of a job type repeatedly processed by the GRID network. Specifically SLA manager performs the trend analysis. As such SLA manager is able to anticipate at least one future load condition on GRID network . The at least one future load condition is associated with submissions of the job type for processing by GRID network . The job type is associated with a particular SLA of a particular client. For example the SLA is designed to establish thresholds of performance metrics to be met when processing jobs of a job type that is processed in GRID network .

In particular the present embodiment processes a plurality of jobs that are associated with the job type. In addition a performance history is determined when processing the plurality of jobs. In this manner GRID network can be characterized using performance metrics under various load conditions. In addition load conditions on GRID network can also be characterized wherein the load conditions are associated with the client the SLA and execution of jobs associated with the job type.

For example the present embodiment is able to provide standard metrics via established jobs that measure performance of GRID network . In particular the present embodiment submits and processes at least one test job in the GRID network. The test job is used for controlled testing of GRID network . In one embodiment the job type comprises the test job. That is the test job is able to closely simulate real jobs that the client submits and processes using GRID network .

In addition the present embodiment measures an external performance metric of GRID network that is associated with processing of the test job. In one embodiment the external performance metric comprises a return time for executing each of the test jobs. In this manner the set of test programs that are submitted and processed by GRID network capture performance metrics that characterize performance of GRID network under various simulated and actual load conditions.

Also the present embodiment is able to provide standard metrics via real jobs that are submitted by the client for processing in GRID network . The standard metrics measure performance of GRID network . For example an external performance metric comprising a return time for executing the real jobs is monitored. The job type also comprises the real job and as such performance metrics gathered when processing the real jobs provide actual characterizations of the performance of GRID network under various load conditions.

At the present embodiment measures at least one internal performance metric of the GRID network to monitor current and past status of GRID network . That is the at least one resource manager is able to simultaneously gather GRID environmental data. In particular the internal performance metrics are associated with a node of GRID network . The internal performance metrics include but are not limited to the following throughput memory capacity resource utilization etc.

At the present embodiment compares the at least one future load condition that is anticipated and the at least one performance metric. In particular predictive behavior modeling module is able to predict satisfaction of the SLA under the current and anticipated load conditions of GRID network .

As a result the present embodiment is able to determine an action based on whether the SLA is satisfied under the anticipated future load condition. The present embodiment is also capable of performing the action. For example GRID DRM is able to reconfigure GRID network to satisfy the SLA in the most efficient manner. For instance the action may include the re allocation of resources in GRID network for processing the plurality of jobs of a job type handled by the client. The job type is associated with a particular SLA. In one case resources are acquired in anticipation of an increase of load conditions. In another case resources are removed in anticipation in a decline in load conditions. In another instance the action comprises a redistribution of data throughout GRID network to satisfy SLA requirements as dictated by the anticipated load conditions.

Accordingly various embodiments of the present invention disclose methods and systems for performing predictive behavioral modeling of the GRID network to satisfy service level agreements SLAs associated with clients using the GRID network. Other embodiments of the present invention provide for the above accomplishments and also provides standard metric via established test jobs and real jobs to measure performance and simultaneously gather environmental data of the GRID network that is stored in a metadata repository. Performance profiles are built over time to create predictable service levels under a variety of loads in order to satisfy SLAs. Still other embodiments of the present invention provide the above accomplishments and allow clients to define the SLAs they require in terms of controlled test conditions. This allows for a closer relationship between client requirements and actual and predicated load conditions of a GRID network. This makes the GRID network commercially viable for mission critical applications without the need for dedicated systems.

While the methods of embodiments illustrated in flow chart show specific sequences and quantity of operations the present invention is suitable to alternative embodiments. For example not all the operations provided for in the methods presented above are required for the present invention. Furthermore additional operations can be added to the operations presented in the present embodiments. Likewise the sequences of operations can be modified depending upon the application.

A method and system for performing predictive behavioral modeling of a GRID network is thus described. While the invention has been illustrated and described by means of specific embodiments it is to be understood that numerous changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof. Furthermore while the present invention has been described in particular embodiments it should be appreciated that the present invention should not be construed as limited by such embodiments but rather construed according to the below claims.

