---

title: Unitary surgical device and method
abstract: Unitary surgical devices () are disclosed. One group of the illustrated devices has a pair of biocompatible, bioresorbable anchors () connected to fixed lengths suture. The anchors () and fixed length of suture are connected to each other prior to surgery. Another group of unitary surgical devices has a pair of fixating mechanisms () connected to a base () prior to surgery. The second group of illustrated devices generally includes extracellular matrix material either as part of the base () or supported on the base (). The extracellular matrix material serves as tissue regenerating material. In the second group of unitary surgical devices, the fixating mechanisms illustrated generally comprise suture, anchors or pre-formed holes in the base. All of the illustrated unitary surgical devices are useful in repairing a damaged meniscus. The first group of unitary surgical devices can be used to approximate inner surfaces of a tear in the meniscus. The second group of devices can be used either as an insert to be placed between and approximated to the inner surfaces of the tear or as an insert to replace a void in the meniscus left after a meniscectomy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07871440&OS=07871440&RS=07871440
owner: Depuy Products, Inc.
number: 07871440
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 305 786 filed on Jul. 16 2001 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 388 951 filed on Jun. 14 2002 and U.S. application Ser. No. 10 195 344 filed on Jul. 15 2002 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Cross reference is made to copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 794 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method Ser. No. 10 195 719 entitled Devices from Naturally Occurring Biologically Derived Materials Ser. No. 10 195 347 entitled Cartilage Repair Apparatus and Method Ser. No. 10 195 341 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffolds Ser. No. 10 195 606 entitled Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Device and Method Ser. No. 10 195 354 entitled Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method Ser. No. 10 195 334 entitled Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Scaffolds and Method and Ser. No. 10 195 633 entitled Porous Delivery Scaffold and Method each of which is assigned to the same assignee as the present application each of which is filed concurrently herewith and each of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Cross reference is also made to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 172 347 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds which was filed on Jun. 14 2002 which is assigned to the same assignee as the present application and which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to surgical devices for approximating repairing or regenerating damaged or diseased fibrocartilage and to surgical methods using such devices.

Articular cartilage is a type of hyaline cartilage that lines the surfaces of the opposing bones in a diarthrodal joint e.g. knee hip shoulder etc. . Articular cartilage provides a near frictionless articulation between the bones while also functioning to absorb and transmit the compressive and shear forces encountered in the joint. Further since the tissue associated with articular cartilage is aneural these load absorbing and transmitting functions occur in a painless fashion in a healthy joint.

Human joints also have another type of cartilage present intra articular fibrocartilage. Intra articular fibrocartilage can be present in the form of a discus articularis that is as a plate or ring of fibrocartilage in the joint capsule separating the joint surfaces articular cartilage of the bones of the joint. Such fibrocartilage is present for example in the temporomandibular joint between vertebrae and in the knee joint. In the knee joint the intra articular fibrocartilage comprises the meniscus a crescent shaped or semi lunar shaped disc of tissue that is located between the femoral condyles and the tibial plateau. The meniscus primarily functions as a shock absorber absorbing the shock of compressive and shear forces in the knee. The meniscus also provides a substantially frictionless surface for articulation of the knee joint.

When cartilage tissue is no longer healthy there can be debilitating pain in the joint. Cartilage health can be adversely affected by disease aging or trauma. The adverse effects of disease aging and trauma can be in the form of a tear in the cartilage or in the form of a breakdown of the cartilage matrix.

In the knee the meniscus is frequently damaged in twisting injuries. It is also damaged with repetitive impact over time. Meniscus degeneration can also occur by aging as a person ages the meniscus can become soft in places so that even common motions like squatting can cause meniscal tears.

Common surgical procedures for treating meniscal damage include tear repairs and meniscectomies. A tear repair is most commonly performed when the tear is a clean longitudinal vertical lesion in the vascular red zone of the meniscus. The basic strategy is to stabilize the tear by limiting or eliminating radial separation of the faces of the tear when the meniscus is load bearing. Many devices and surgical procedures exist for repairing meniscal tears by approximating the faces of the meniscus at the tear. Examples of such devices and procedures are disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 319 271 6 306 159 6 306 156 6 293 961 6 156 044 6 152 935 6 056 778 5 993 475 5 980 524 5 702 462 5 569 252 5 374 268 5 320 633 and 4 873 976.

Meniscectomies involve the surgical removal of part of the meniscus. Such procedures have generally been performed in cases of radial tears horizontal tears vertical longitudinal tears outside the vascular zone complex tears or defibrillation. Although meniscectomies provide immediate relief to the patient in the long term the absence of part of the meniscus can cause cartilage wear on the condylar surface eventually leading to arthritic conditions in the joint.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 042 610 assigned to ReGen Biologics Inc. hereby incorporated by reference discloses the use of a collagen scaffold device comprising a bioabsorbable material made at least in part from purified natural fibers. The purified natural fibers are cross linked to form the device of that patent. The device produced can be used to provide augmentation for a damaged meniscus. Related U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 042 610 5 735 903 5 681 353 5 306 311 5 108 438 5 007 934 4 880 429 also disclose a meniscal augmentation device for establishing a scaffold adapted for ingrowth of meniscal fibrochondrocytes.

It is also known to use naturally occurring extracelluar matrices ECMs to provide a scaffold for tissue repair and regeneration. One such ECM is small intestine submucosa SIS . SIS has been described as a natural biomaterial used to repair support and stabilize a wide variety of anatomical defects and traumatic injuries. See for example Cook Online News Release provided by Cook Biotech Inc. at www.cookgroup.com . The SIS material is derived from porcine small intestinal submucosa that models the qualities of its host when implanted in human soft tissues. Further it is taught that the SIS material provides a natural matrix with a three dimensional structure and biochemical composition that attracts host cells and supports tissue remodeling. SIS products such as OASIS and SURGISIS are commercially available from Cook Biotech Inc. Bloomington Ind.

Another SIS product RESTORE Orthobiologic Implant is available from DePuy Orthopaedics Inc. in Warsaw Ind. The DePuy product is described for use during rotator cuff surgery and is provided as a resorbable framework that allows the rotator cuff tendon to regenerate. The RESTORE Implant is derived from porcine small intestine submucosa a naturally occurring ECM composed primarily of collagenous proteins that has been cleaned disinfected and sterilized. Other biological molecules such as growth factors glycosaminoglycans etc. have also been identified in SIS. See Hodde et al. Tissue Eng. 2 3 209 217 1996 Voytik Harbin et al. J. Cell. Biochem. 67 478 491 1997 McPherson and Badylak Tissue Eng. 4 1 75 83 1998 Hodde et al. Endothelium 8 1 11 24 Hodde and Hiles Wounds 13 5 195 201 2001 Hurst and Bonner J. Biomater. Sci. Polym. Ed. 12 11 1267 1279 2001 Hodde et al. Biomaterial 23 8 1841 1848 2002 and Hodde Tissue Eng. 8 2 295 308 2002 . During seven years of preclinical testing in animals there were no incidences of infection transmission from the implant to the host and the SIS material has not adversely affected the systemic activity of the immune system. See Allman et al. Transplant 17 11 1631 1640 2001 Allman et al. Tissue Eng. 8 1 53 62 2002 .

While small intestine submucosa is available other sources of ECM are known to be effective for tissue remodeling. These sources include but are not limited to stomach bladder alimentary respiratory and genital submucosa. In addition liver basement membrane is known to be effective for tissue remodeling. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 379 710 6 171 344 6 099 567 and 5 554 389 hereby incorporated by reference. Further while ECM is most often porcine derived it is known that these various ECM materials can be derived from non porcine sources including bovine and ovine sources. Additionally the ECM material may also include partial layers of laminar muscularis mucosa muscularis mucosa lamina propria stratum compactum layer and or other such tissue materials depending upon other factors such as the source from which the ECM material was derived and the delamination procedure.

The following patents hereby incorporated by reference disclose the use of ECMs for the regeneration and repair of various tissues U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 379 710 6 187 039 6 176 880 6 126 686 6 099 567 6 096 347 5 997 575 5 993 844 5 968 096 5 955 110 5 922 028 5 885 619 5 788 625 5 733 337 5 762 966 5 755 791 5 753 267 5 711 969 5 645 860 5 641 518 5 554 389 5 516 533 5 460 962 5 445 833 5 372 821 5 352 463 5 281 422 and 5 275 826.

The present invention is directed toward devices and surgical methods for the repair and regeneration of diseased or damaged intra articular fibrocartilage such as the meniscus in the human knee joint.

In one aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for implantation in a patient for repairing a body tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises first and second biocompatible anchors and biocompatible tissue repair material extending between and connected to the first and second anchors. The anchors and tissue repair material are connected to each other prior to surgery. The first anchor includes at least one of the following a bioresorbable barbed dart a bioresorbable tack a bioresorbable backstop and a bioresorbable male locking member. The second anchor includes at least one of the following a bioresorbable barbed dart a bioresorbable tack a bioresorbable backstop and a bioresorbable female locking member. The biocompatible tissue repair material includes at least one of the following a fixed length of suture a sheet of collagen containing material laminar ECM material formed ECM material comminuted ECM material ECM fibers ECM foam material a sheet of bioresorbable material and a base connected to the first anchor and to the second anchor and a different material secured to the base at least one of the base and the different material including ECM material.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating intra articular fibrocartilage tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a first fixating mechanism a second fixating mechanism and tissue repair material extending between and connected to the first and second fixating members prior to surgery. The first fixating mechanism includes at least one of the following a length of suture a bioresorbable barbed dart a bioresorbable tack a bioresorbable backstop and a bioresorbable male locking member. The second fixating mechanism includes at least one of the following a length of suture a bioresorbable barbed dart a bioresorbable tack a bioresorbable backstop and a bioresorbable female locking member. The tissue repair material includes at least one of the following a sheet of ECM material connected to the first anchor and the second anchor laminar ECM material connected to the first anchor and the second anchor ECM foam comminuted ECM ECM fibers cross linked ECM material formed ECM material and a bioresorbable base connected to the first anchor and the second anchor and a different material on the base where at least one of the base and the different material includes ECM.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating intra articular fibrocartilage tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a base having at least two layers and a length of suture disposed or positioned between the layers of the base. At least part of the unitary surgical device is made from ECM material.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating meniscal tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a base having two panels. The two panels have a V shaped configuration in cross section and meet along an apex portion. The two panels have end portions spaced distally from the apex portion. The end portions are spaced from each other to provide a gap. The unitary surgical device may also include tissue regeneration material between the two panels of the base. The unitary surgical device also includes opposing anchors on the end portions of the base panels. The opposing anchors are suitable for fixation to the native meniscus.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a base made of a bioresorbable polymer and ECM material on the base. In addition the unitary surgical device includes a first fixating member secured to the base prior to surgery. The first fixating member is suitable for fixation to the patient s tissue.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a base made of ECM material and a first fixating member secured to the base prior to surgery. The first fixating member is suitable for fixation to the patient s tissue.

In another aspect the present invention provides a unitary surgical device for surgical implantation in a patient for regenerating tissue in the patient. The unitary surgical device comprises a base having two opposing edges and a plurality of holes along one of the edges of the base. The unitary surgical devices includes ECM material.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of repairing a tear in the meniscus in the knee of a patient. The meniscus has an articulating surface and a non articulating surface. The tear results in the meniscus having two inner surfaces. The method comprises the acts of providing a unitary surgical device having a pair of resorbable anchors and a fixed length of suture connected to the anchors. After the tear in the meniscus is located the unitary surgical device is implanted to approximate the two inner surfaces of the meniscus at the tear with suture extending across the articulating surface of the meniscus across the tear and the resorbable anchors being spaced from the tear.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of repairing a damaged meniscus in the knee of a patient. The meniscus has a non articulating surface a peripheral rim and an inner portion. The method comprises the acts of providing a wedge shaped unitary surgical device including a fixating mechanism. A portion of the damaged meniscus inward of the peripheral rim of the meniscus is removed. The unitary surgical device is implanted with a portion inward of the peripheral rim. The unitary surgical device is fixated to the meniscus by fixating at least part of the base of the unitary surgical device to the meniscus with the fixating mechanism.

A variety of unitary surgical devices utilizing the principles of the present invention are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The illustrated surgical devices are for implantation in a patient for repairing a body tissue in the patient. The illustrated embodiments would most commonly be used in repairing intra articular fibrocartilage such as the meniscus of the knee although the invention is not so limited unless expressly called for in the claims. A meniscus or part of a meniscus is diagrammatically illustrated at in the accompanying drawings and . An example of a meniscal tear is shown at in and . The invention is also expected to be useful in the treatment of damaged and diseased intra articular fibrocartilage in other body parts as well.

As used herein unitary refers to the fact that the surgical devices include at least one fixating element and at least one tissue repair element as an integral unit prior to the time that the surgical devices are implanted in the patient. Preferably each unitary surgical device also includes a second fixating element . Thus for example suture may be incorporated into the device prior to the time the device is implanted in the patient. However it should be understood that although at least one of each element is included in the device the surgeon may choose to use additional material during surgery. For example the surgeon may opt during surgery to use an additional fixating mechanism that was not an integral part of the original device if the surgeon believes that additional stabilization is necessary or desirable.

As used herein tissue repair element and tissue repair material are intended to include materials such as suture whether of natural or synthetic origin as well as tissue or cartilage regeneration material. Tissue or cartilage regeneration material encompasses naturally occurring extracellular matrix ECM materials that provide a collagen scaffold for tissue repair and regeneration. One such ECM material that may be used for the tissue or cartilage regeneration material is submucosa and small intestine submucosa SIS in particular. Other bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrices whatever the source are intended to be included within tissue regeneration material including purified collagenous tissues. As used herein SIS is intended to include small intestine submucosa unless otherwise limited. Moreover as used herein ECM is intended to include all SIS as well as materials made from the other sources of submucosa identified above e.g. bladder stomach and liver tissue from bovine ovine and porcine sources and materials derived from liver basement membrane from whatever source unless otherwise limited. For the purposes of this invention it is within the definition of a naturally occurring ECM to clean delaminate and or comminute the ECM to cross link the collagen within the ECM and to form a foam or other structure from the ECM. It is also within the definition of naturally occurring ECM to fully or partially remove one or more components or subcomponents of the naturally occurring matrix. However it is not within the definition of a naturally occurring ECM to extract or separate and purify the natural components or subcomponents e.g. collagen or growth factor and reform a matrix material from these extracted and purified components or subcomponents. Also while reference is made to SIS it is understood that other naturally occurring ECMs such as stomach bladder alimentary respiratory and genital submucosa and liver basement membrane for example whatever the source e.g. bovine porcine ovine etc. are within the scope of this invention. Thus in this application the terms naturally occurring extracellular matrix or naturally occurring ECM are intended to refer to extracellular matrix material that has been cleaned disinfected sterilized and optionally cross linked. The terms naturally occurring ECM and naturally occurring extracellular matrix are also intended to include foam material made from naturally occurring ECM as described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 354 entitled Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method the toughened material made from naturally occurring ECM as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 794 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method and the hardened material made from naturally occurring ECM as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 719 entitled Devices from Naturally Occurring Biologically Derived Materials all filed concurrently herewith as U.S. Provisional Patent Applications and incorporated by reference below.

As used herein bioresorbable resorbable and bioabsorbable are intended to be interchangeable. All three terms are intended to mean materials that are naturally degradable in vivo over time. All are intended to include both natural and man made materials and to include new materials as they are developed unless a specific material or type of material is identified in the claims.

As used herein intra articular fibrocartilage is intended to include the meniscus in the knee joint. It is also intended to include fibrocartilage separating the joint surfaces articular cartilage of the bones of other joints and separating the surfaces of adjacent vertebrae. Intra articular fibrocartilage thus includes for example fibrocartilage in the temporomandibular joint and between vertebrae. Although the embodiments of the invention illustrated in and are shaped for use in the meniscus it should be understood that the principles of the present invention may be applied to surgical devices to be used in repairing and regenerating damaged or diseased intra articular fibrocartilage in other joints in the body.

ECM material and combinations of ECM material and synthetic materials for use in the present invention can be prepared as described in the following United States patents utility applications for United States patents and provisional applications for United States patents the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein U.S. Pat. No. 4 902 508 entitled Tissue Graft Composition U.S. Pat. No. 4 956 178 entitled Tissue Graft Composition U.S. Pat. No. 5 281 422 entitled Graft for Promoting Autogenous Tissue Growth U.S. Pat. No. 5 372 821 entitled Graft for Promoting Autogenous Tissue Growth U.S. Pat. No. 5 445 833 entitled Tendon or Ligament Graft for Promoting Autogenous Tissue Growth U.S. Pat. No. 5 733 337 entitled Tissue Repair Fabric U.S. Pat. No. 5 788 625 entitled Method of Making Reconstructive SIS Structure for Cartilaginous Elements In Situ U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 028 entitled Multi layered SIS Tissue Graft Construct for Replacement of Cartilaginous Elements In Situ U.S. Pat. No. 5 955 110 entitled Multilayered Submucosal Graft Constructs and Method for Making the Same U.S. Pat. No. 5 993 844 entitled Chemical Treatment Without Detergents or Enzymes of Tissue to Form an Acellular collagenous Matrix U.S. Pat. No. 6 176 880 entitled Tissue Graft Construct for Replacement of Cartilaginous Structures Publication No. US 2002 0038151 A1 published Mar. 28 2002 entitled Reinforced Small Intestine Submucosa Publication No. US 2001 0002446 A1 published May 31 2001 entitled Tissue Graft Construct for Replacement of Cartilaginous Structures U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 767 346 filed Jan. 23 2001 entitled Tissue Graft Construct for Replacement of Cartilaginous Structures U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 305 786 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method filed on Jul. 16 2001.

The ECM for use in the present invention can be disinfected as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 206 931 entitled Graft Prosthesis Materials or U.S. Pat. No. 5 460 962 entitled Peracetic Acid Sterilization of Collagen or collagenous Tissue which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties or may be disinfected generally through the use of a disinfecting agent such as a 0.15 peracetic acid in 20 ethanol solution.

As described above ECM material as used herein includes commercially available materials unless otherwise expressly limited. Such commercially available materials include those available from DePuy Orthopaedics Inc. of Warsaw Ind. e.g. RESTORE Orthobiologic Implant for example.

It should also be understood that ECM materials including SIS as used herein are not limited to the materials or processes described in the preceding paragraphs unless expressly indicated otherwise the patents provisional applications utility applications and commercial products identified in the preceding paragraphs are identified for purposes of illustration only.

Referring now to the illustrated embodiments of the present invention one group of unitary surgical devices is illustrated in and . As illustrated in and each unitary surgical device of this group includes two fixating elements a first anchor and a second anchor . Each unitary surgical device also includes tissue repair material extending between and connected to the first anchor and second anchor . The tissue repair material is connected to the two fixating members prior to surgery and prior to terminal sterilization of the unitary surgical devices. In this group the tissue repair material comprises suture. A second group of unitary surgical devices is illustrated in and . As illustrated in and each illustrated unitary surgical device of this group also includes two fixating elements and tissue repair material extending between and connected to the fixating members . In this second group the tissue repair material includes a tissue regeneration material the tissue repair material may also include other elements such as suture or a base . In addition in this second group although the fixating elements may include anchors the fixating elements may also include suture either alone or in combination with the anchors . Thus the fixating members may comprise one or more anchors one or more anchors combined with suture or suture alone. All of these elements in the second group are secured together prior to surgery and prior to terminal sterilization of the unitary surgical devices.

In both groups of devices where at least one of the fixating members includes an anchor the anchor may comprise a barbed dart as illustrated at in and a tack as illustrated at in a backstop as illustrated at in a male locking member as illustrated at in or a pair of connected anchors such as the pair of barbed darts connected by a length of suture. The first fixating member may also comprise a length of suture as shown at in and . The first fixating member may also comprise combinations of anchors and other materials such as a combination of a barbed dart as an anchor and a length of suture as shown in and or a combination of a male locking member and a length of suture as shown in for example. Whatever form of fixating member is selected each material in the illustrated embodiments is a biocompatible and bioabsorbable one that is one that will eventually be broken down assimilated diminuted or excreted or both assimilated and diminuted or excreted by the body of the patient. If a second fixating member is used it may include a second anchor . The second anchor may comprise a top hat shaped fixating member as illustrated at in a backstop as illustrated at in barbed dart as illustrated at in and a receiving opening as shown at in a tack as illustrated at in a female locking member as illustrated at in . The second fixating member may also comprise a length of suture as shown at in and . The second fixating member may also comprise combinations of materials such as a combination of an anchor such as a barbed dart and a length of suture as shown in and for example. As in the case of the first fixating member whatever structure or form is selected for the second fixating member each material in the illustrated embodiments is a biocompatible and bioabsorbable one.

In unitary surgical devices using two fixating members various combinations of the above described anchors can be used. For example two anchors may be used of the same or different shape such as a barbed dart with a top hat shaped structure as shown in a barbed dart with another barbed dart as shown at and in a barbed dart with a backstop as shown at and in a tack can be used with another tack as shown in or with some other structure. All of these combinations may be used with suture as the tissue repair material in the first group of embodiments and all of them may be used with the second group of embodiments as well. It should be understood that these combinations are identified for purposes of illustration only. The present invention is not limited to these combinations unless expressly set forth in the claims.

A variety of materials may be used for the first and second anchors . For example the anchors may be constructed of biocompatible polymers bioremodelable collagenous matrices and combinations of such materials. Other materials such as bioactive agents other biologically derived agents biocompatible inorganic materials cells and biological lubricants can also be included as part of the anchors.

As used herein biocompatible polymer and biocompatible polymers is intended to include both synthetic polymers and biopolymers e.g. collagen . Examples of biocompatible polymers include polyesters of alpha hydroxycarboxylic acids such as poly L lactide PLLA and polyglycolide PGA poly p dioxanone PDO polycaprolactone PCL polyvinyl alcohol PVA polyethylene oxide PEO polymers disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 333 029 and 6 355 699 and any other bioresorbable and biocompatible polymer co polymer or mixture of polymers or co polymers that are utilized in the construction of prosthetic implants. If other such polymers have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of them will have use in the present invention and at least some of them should be included in biocompatible polymers. In addition as new biocompatible bioresorbable materials are developed it is expected that at least some of them will be useful materials from which orthopaedic devices may be made. It should be understood that the above materials are identified by way of example only and the present invention is not limited to any particular material unless expressly called for in the claims.

 Bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrix and naturally occurring bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrix are intended to include matrices derived from native tissue selected from the group comprising skin artery vein pericardium heart valve dura mater ligament bone cartilage bladder liver stomach fascia and intestine whatever the source. Although naturally occurring bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrix is intended to refer to matrix material that has been cleaned processed sterilized and optionally crosslinked it is not within the definition of a naturally occurring bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrix to extract and purify the natural components or subcomponents e.g. collagen and reform or reconstitute a matrix material from purified natural components or subcomponents.

It is understood and intended that there is substantial overlap between bioremodelable collagenous tissue matrices and extracellular matrices the different expressions are used in this specification and claims to ensure complete coverage of the invention. It is believed that the teachings of the present invention will be useful for materials falling with both definitions.

Some commercially available products may be used as the anchors in some of the illustrated embodiments. For example the backstop elements shown at and in and and top hat shaped element shown in may be taken from the RAPIDLOC Meniscal Repair System available from the MITEK Products division of ETHICON INC. of Westwood Mass.

In addition the anchors may be constructed from a naturally occurring material such as naturally occurring extracellular matrices ECM such as small intestine submucosa SIS . In such a case each anchor may be configured as a monolithic structure formed from naturally occurring ECM which is cured to be rigid and hardened. As such it should be appreciated that the ECM material from which the anchor is fabricated is cured to produce a structure that possesses the necessary hardness and toughness to be inserted into and through the native meniscus and to be retained in the native meniscus for at least a predetermined period of time.

ECM material with the necessary hardness and toughness for use as the anchors may be fabricated by compacting comminuted or shredded naturally occurring ECM material into bar or rod stock by compressing the material together and then curing the material such that it is very rigid and hardened. The curing may be accomplished by simple air drying or by heated air drying of the formed stock. The material may additionally be crosslinked to further improve its mechanical properties.

As a specific example one or more of the anchors may be constructed with a cured and hardened SIS. In this case comminuted SIS material is placed in a container and allowed to air dry for a predetermined period of time e.g. as long as several days at room temperature. Over such a time water evaporates from the SIS material thereby shrinking the material. The shrunk material is very tough and hard and as a result may be machined as described herein.

It should be appreciated that other process parameters may be established to facilitate the curing process. For example a curing profile utilizing predetermined amounts of heat and or pressure may be designed to facilitate the curing of the naturally occurring ECM material e.g. SIS .

Once the ECM material e.g. SIS is cured to a desired hardness and toughness it may be machined with conventional machining equipment to desired shapes such as in the shape of a barbed dart as illustrated in and . For example the anchor may be turned on a lathe or similar equipment to produce the desired configuration of the anchor such as the barbed darts. However based on the specific design of the anchor it should be appreciated that certain features of the anchor e.g. the barbed darts may be separately or additionally machined to produce a desired shape or geometry. For example various barb configurations may be formed on part of the anchor by for example use of a cutting machine.

In addition to conventional cutting machining techniques e.g. lathing and cutting contemporary techniques may also be utilized to form the cured naturally occurring ECM into the desired configuration of the anchor . For example a programmable laser cutting machine may be used to cut the raw stock of cured ECM. Specifically the laser cutting machine may be programmed to cut the raw stock in a pattern which produces a desired configuration of the anchor. In addition to providing for cutting with precision tolerances laser cutting also provides other benefits. Such laser cutting of the ECM can produce barbed darts having cut edges which are sealed and fused together to enhance the attachment capability of the barbed darts.

It should be understood that the material selected for the anchors may also comprise mixtures or composites of the materials described above. For example the anchors could comprise both a biocompatible polymer and ECM material. With regard to the shape of the barbed darts that may be used with the present invention reference is made to barbed dart configuration shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 702 463 as one example of a shape of barbed dart that may be useful. It should be understood that the shapes of the barbed darts and other anchors shown in the accompanying drawings are provided for purposes of illustration only. The present invention is not limited to any particular shape of barbed dart or other anchor unless expressly set forth in the claims. It should also be understood that the sizes of the anchors in the drawings shown are provided for purposes of illustration only. The actual sizes of the anchors may be different from those illustrated and may vary with the method used to implant them. For example the commercially available backstop is inserted through a needle as shown in the Mitek Products document RAPIDLOC MENISCAL REPAIR SYSTEM Surgical Technique for Repair of Meniscal Tears . If this technique and instrumentation is to be used to insert the anchors of the present invention then the anchors should be sized accordingly. Typical barbed darts can be expected to be in the range of about 1 mm in maximum diameter and about 3 mm in length. It should be understood that these dimensions are provided for purposes of illustration only the present invention is not limited to any particular size of anchor unless expressly set forth in the claims.

Where the fixating elements include or consist of suture such as in and any suitable suture material may be used such as commercially available suture. Acceptable suture may be obtained from the MITEK PRODUCTS division of ETHICON INC. of Westwood Mass. examples include PANACRYL absorbable suture ETHIBOND EXCEL polyester suture PDS polydioxanone suture and PROLENE polypropylene suture.

Whatever structure and material is chosen for the anchors the anchors are connected to a tissue repair material in the illustrated unitary surgical devices . The tissue repair material in the illustrated embodiments includes suture a base tissue regenerating material or combinations of these materials.

In the embodiments of the tissue repair material comprises a fixed length of suture the suture in the illustrated embodiment has a length of about 4 5 mm. A surgical kit could contain several unitary surgical devices each with a pair of anchors separated by a variety of fixed lengths of suture as the tissue repair material. The lengths for the sutures portions of the devices in the kit could range for example from 2 mm to about 1 cm. Alternatively several kits could be provided each with a plurality of unitary surgical devices of a particular length. It should be understood that these lengths are provided for purposes of illustration only the present invention is not limited to tissue repair material of these or any particular lengths unless expressly called for in the claims. The suture used for the tissue repair material in these embodiments may be standard commercially available suture made of conventional materials. Acceptable suture may be obtained from the sources identified above. illustrate examples of such unitary surgical devices wherein the tissue repair material comprises suture.

Embodiments of the invention utilizing a base as part of the tissue repair material are illustrated in . The base component of the tissue repair material may comprise a third fixating member such as backstop element shown in . In addition the base may provide structural support to the unitary surgical device . The base may comprise a sheet as shown in and and may be a laminar sheet as illustrated in . The base component may comprise a formed structure as illustrated in . The formed structures could be laminar or could be formed in other manners as disclosed below. The base component may also comprise one or more layers of mesh structures for example woven materials as illustrated in non woven materials knitted materials warp knitted materials braided materials foamed materials and combinations of those materials if more than one layer of a mesh structure is provided the layers may be juxtaposed or spaced with other material sandwiched between the layers for example. The base material should have sufficient strength so that the connection to the anchors and the connection of the anchors to the patient s native tissue is maintained during implantation of the unitary surgical device and for a suitable period of time after implantation. Generally the base should have sufficient strength for a sufficient time to allow the healing process to progress to the point where the structural stability provided by the base is no longer needed. However in the claims no particular strength should be implied the claims unless expressly recited.

The base in any of the embodiments of could comprise a biocompatible polymer a bioremodelable collagenous matrix a naturally occurring ECM and in particular SIS or combinations of these materials. The tissue regeneration material may be carried by the base or may comprise the base . The base could also comprise these materials together with bioactive agents other biologically derived agents cells a biological lubricant or a biocompatible inorganic material. In the claims no particular material or combination of materials should be implied for the base unless expressly recited.

For a base made out of or including a biocompatible polymer suitable polymers are defined above. These polymers can be provided in the form of for example meshes of woven or non woven materials laminar sheets knitted materials warp knitted materials braided materials or one or more layers of foamed polymer. Reference is also made to the materials disclosed in copending U.S. Ser. No. 10 195 341 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffolds filed concurrently herewith along with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 172 347 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds which was filed on Jun. 14 2002 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

For a base made out of or including ECM material several options are available. The ECM could comprise material derived from a mammalian submucosa source such as SIS. The ECM base could be formed as a laminate structure as illustrated in . The layers may be laminated together and bonded by both mechanical compression and application of vacuum and or heated air which accomplishes the bonding and also dries the product. Reference is made to U.S. Pat. No. 5 955 110 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for a description of a method of making layered SIS material. A suitable SIS base may also be formed as described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 794 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method which is incorporated by reference herein in its entireties. A vacuum plate or platen with a cavity in a desired shape may be provided with a vacuum pump connected to the cavity by a tube. The cavity may be provided with a plurality of openings leading to a manifold space within the platen which is connected to the pump. Several layers of naturally occurring ECM such as SIS are placed on the plate. These layers are preferably initially in a moist and flexible state. These moist flexible layers are pulled down into the cavity by the vacuum to form a molded recess for receiving a mass of biological material. A flat vacuum plate or platen could also be used to form flat sheet forms of ECM material. These and other techniques may be employed to form the base into a desired shape such as the wedge shape shown in and .

Other sheet forms of ECM are expected to be useful to provide a base or combination base and tissue regeneration material . For example it is anticipated that one could make a thick slurry of comminuted ECM fibers dry the slurry into a sheet pocket or other form such as the form illustrated in for example and heat the material under combinations of pressure vacuum and heat to bond and dry the product. In addition one or more such sheets could be laminated together or with strips of ECM material. It is expected that other shapes and forms could also be formed of such materials. It is expected that other materials could be intermixed with the ECM material as well for example the thick slurry could include both ECM material and a biocompatible polymer as a structural reinforcement or the slurry of ECM material could be supported on and fused with a supporting structure made of ECM or some biocompatible polymer.

In any of the above examples the material for the base such as ECM can be crosslinked by known methods. For example chemical or physical crosslinking can be used. Chemical crosslinking methods include the use of aldehydes carbodiimides glycation agents enzymes or the like. Physical crosslinking methods include freeze drying and fusion by physical means such as heat thermal crosslinking radiation ultraviolet or gamma irradiation or combinations such as by drying at elevated temperatures dehydrothermal crosslinking . Crosslinking may also be used to impart to the base biological lubricants such as hyaluronic acid HA .

A portion or all of the base may be perforated to allow easy chemical and cellular transfer. In addition if desired cells bioactive agents biologically derived agents biological lubricants and biocompatible inorganic materials may be added to the base.

The base may also include a foamed or hybrid structure and may include other materials as disclosed in applications for United States patent filed concurrently herewith and previously filed which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 172 347 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds which was filed on Jun. 14 2002 Ser. No. 10 195 341 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffolds filed herewith Ser. No. 10 195 606 entitled Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Device and Method filed herewith and Ser. No. 10 195 354 entitled Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method filed herewith.

The base may take any one of several shapes and configurations. For example as illustrated in the base may comprise a single substantially flat panel. As illustrated in and the base may comprise two integral panels joined along a linear or curved apex the two illustrated panels diverge outward from the apex to define a wedge shaped or V shaped structure in cross section. The side edges of each panel may also diverge outwardly from the apex as shown in and . The base may comprise a pillow like structure like a sac made of the base material with a mass of tissue regeneration material held within the sac or pillow structure.

In each of the embodiments of and a mass of tissue regeneration material such as ECM is included as part of the tissue repair material . In each of these embodiments the mass of tissue regeneration material comprises a separate mass that is secured to the base . In the embodiment of a plurality three of masses of tissue regeneration material are fixed to the base . In the embodiments of and a single mass of tissue regeneration material is positioned between the two panels near the apex the masses of tissue regeneration material in these illustrated embodiments are wedge shaped or V shaped in cross section although it should be understood that other shapes are within the scope of the invention. As illustrated in the mass of tissue regeneration material could also comprise a loose pack of comminuted or shredded ECM material. As disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 305 786 the SIS material could comprise rolls of comminuted SIS. It should also be understood that depending on the material used for the base the unitary surgical device need not include any additional tissue regeneration material for example if the base comprises one or more layers of ECM mesh or an ECM foam then it may not be necessary to include a separate mass of tissue regeneration material.

If a separate mass of tissue regeneration material is used it may be secured to the base by use of a compatible adhesive. Synthetic adhesives are commercially available such as polycaprolactone PCL. Biological adhesives are also available such as commercially available materials containing transglutaminase or fibrin for example. Other biological adhesives are also known as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 326 025 Tissue Reactive Adhesive Compositions and in published U.S. Pat. Apps. 200200344533 Bioerodable Polymeric Adhesives for Tissue Repair and 20020031551 Bioerodable Polymeric Adhesives for Tissue Repair. The adhesive can be applied to the tissue regeneration material and to the base . The tissue regeneration material may be secured to a pillow or sac like base by substantially enclosing the mass of tissue regeneration material within the base structure such as by suturing three or four sides of the base structure around the mass of tissue regeneration material by using a compatible adhesive around the perimeter of the base surrounding the mass of tissue regeneration material. The tissue regeneration material may also be secured to the base by positioning the tissue regeneration material in a formed receiving structure or pocket as in the embodiment of . In addition layers of SIS material could be laminated around all or part of the mass of tissue regeneration material. Chemical and physical cross linking may also be used to secure the mass of tissue regeneration material to the base . Chemical cross linking methods of securing these materials together include the use of aldehydes carbodiimides glycation agents enzymes e.g. transglutaminase biologics e.g. fibrin or the like. Physical cross linking methods include freeze drying and fusion by physical means such as heat thermal cross linking radiation ultraviolet or gamma irradiation or combinations such as by drying at elevated temperatures dehydrothermal cross linking .

The mass or plug of tissue regeneration material may comprise comminuted and or lyophilized naturally occurring ECM e.g. SIS with the desired porosity and material density. The material density and or porosity of the mass or plug may be varied to control cell migration and proliferation. Additional examples of materials that are usable for the mass of tissue regeneration material include ECM e.g. SIS powder ECM e.g. SIS fibers ECM e.g. SIS threads ECM e.g. SIS mesh ECM e.g. SIS wovens ECM e.g. SIS non wovens ECM e.g. SIS braided materials ECM e.g. SIS solutions ECM e.g. SIS gel ECM e.g. SIS paste ECM e.g. SIS foam and combinations of such materials. For the powder solutions gel and paste forms of SIS the material may be prepared as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 352 463 entitled Tissue Graft for Surgical Reconstruction of a Collagenous Meniscus and Method Therefor which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. It should be understood that separate reference in the above list to the forms of ECM should not be taken to imply that the listed references are exclusive for example ECM non wovens ECM threads and ECM foam may all include ECM fibers.

The mass or plug of tissue regeneration material and the base or the combination of the base and the tissue regeneration material may include materials described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 179 872 B1 entitled Biopolymer Matt for Use in Tissue Repair and Reconstruction and U.S. Pat. No. 6 153 292 entitled Biopolymer Foams for Use in Tissue Repair and Reconstruction which are both incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. The mass or plug of tissue regeneration material and the base or the combination of the base and the tissue regeneration material may include materials disclosed in the following copending and concurrently filed U.S. patent applications which are incorporated by reference herein Ser. No. 10 195 794 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method Ser. No. 10 195 719 entitled Devices from Naturally Occurring Biologically Derived Materials U.S. patent Ser. No. 10 195 347 entitled Cartilage Repair Apparatus and Method Ser. No. 10 195 341 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffolds Ser. No. 10 195 606 entitled Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Device and Method Ser. No. 10 195 354 entitled Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method Ser. No. 10 195 334 entitled Cartilage Repair and Regeneration Scaffolds and Method and Ser. No. 10 195 633 entitled Porous Delivery Scaffold and Method along with U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 172 347 entitled Hybrid Biologic Synthetic Bioabsorbable Scaffolds which was filed on Jun. 14 2002.

The mass of plug of tissue regeneration material could also comprise other collagenous materials. For example it is expected that a commercial product such as the Collagen Meniscus Implant made by ReGen Biologics Inc. of Franklin Lakes N.J. could be combined with other elements of the present invention to form a unitary surgical device. Other collagen scaffolds are described in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 042 610 5 735 903 5 479 033 5 306 311 5 007 934 and 4 880 429.

Porous ECM e.g. SIS foam for the tissue regeneration material may be fabricated by lyophilizing i.e. freeze drying comminuted ECM e.g. SIS suspended in water. The material density and pore size of the resultant foam may be varied to fit the needs of the design by controlling amongst other things the rate of freezing of the comminuted ECM suspension and or the amount of water in which the comminuted ECM is suspended at the on set of the freezing process.

The following is a specific example of a process for fabricating an exemplary ECM foam. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the materials devices or process steps of the following example unless expressly called for in the claims. The first step in developing a foam with a desired pore size and density is the procurement of comminuted ECM. To do this scissor cut ECM runners e.g. SIS runners about 6 inches long are positioned in a 1700 series Comitrol machine which is commercially available from Urschel Laboratories of Valparaiso Ind. The ECM material is processed and thereafter collected in a receptacle at the output of the machine. The material is then processed through the machine a second time under similar conditions. Water is introduced during the process and the resultant material is a slurry of ECM fiber thin long fibers about 200 microns thick 1 5 mm long suspended substantially uniformly in water. It should be understood that this size of ECM fiber is identified as an illustrative example only the invention is not limited to a particular size of ECM fiber material unless the claims expressly call for a particular size.

Generally the process parameters for the comminution process should be selected to produce ECM material that is capable of commingling intermixing or intertwining rather than producing a powder. Process parameters that can be varied using the above identified 1700 series Comitrol machine include the choice of blade used whether water is used the amount of water used the speed at which the blades turn and the number of times the material is passed through the machine. As an example cutting head 140084 10 and a Vericut sealed impeller from Urschel Laboratories may be used with a flow of water of about two 2 gallons per minute with the cutting head run at a constant speed of about 9300 rpm. A first pass through the machine at these parameters will produce fibrous ECM material of varying sizes and a second pass will produce ECM fibers of more uniform size. To test the comminuted material to determine whether it is appropriate for the production of an ECM foam the comminuted ECM suspension or slurry is then centrifuged excess water is poured off and the remaining slurry is poured into a dish. By hand a small amount of the comminuted ECM material in the dish is pinched between the thumb and index finger and gently lifted from the dish if the comminuted SIS material is fibrous at least a small amount of additional ECM beyond the portion pinched between the thumb and index finger will lift along with the material that has been pinched. This additional comminuted ECM material lifts with the material that is between the thumb and index finger because the individual pieces of comminuted ECM material are commingled or intertwined. Such material should be suitable for the production of a foam. It is expected that other shapes and sizes of ECM material and mixtures of shapes and sizes of ECM material may be useful in producing an ECM foam. For example it is expected that one could comminute ECM to produce ECM flakes that can intermingle to form an appropriate slurry.

As used herein unless the claims are otherwise expressly limited the terms cohesive ECM pieces and cohesive SIS pieces are intended to include ECM and SIS material that has been comminuted or otherwise processed to produce ECM and SIS pieces that are capable of commingling or intertwining in the wet or dry state to form a cohesive mass of discrete elements regardless of the shape or shapes of the individual ECM or SIS pieces. One method of demonstrating that the ECM material comprises cohesive pieces is the pinch test described above. Examination of the final ECM foam product produced may also provide evidence that the base material comprised cohesive ECM pieces.

As used herein pieces is intended to include any fiber strip ribbon sliver filament shred bit fragment part flake slice cut chunk or other portion of solid or solid like material. ECM fiber and SIS fiber are also intended to include ECM and SIS material that has been comminuted or otherwise processed to produce a material wherein at least some of the individual pieces of ECM and SIS material have lengths greater than their widths and thicknesses. It should be understood that unless otherwise expressly limited by the claims use of the terms ECM pieces and SIS pieces should be construed to mean that the material includes such pieces but should not be considered to imply that the material consists of such pieces exclusively. Such terms should also not be construed to imply that any particular process has been used to produce the material.

After the suspension has been formed the suspension of SIS fibers is dried. To do so a lyophilization process freeze drying is used. In particular the suspension of SIS fibers is frozen at a controlled temperature drop rate to control the size of the formed ice crystals. Without allowing the material to thaw the process of lyophilization sublimes ice crystals directly to vapor under vacuum and low temperatures. This process leaves voids in the spaces previously occupied by ice crystals. These voids and the SIS fibrous material form a network of compartments with SIS material defining interconnected walls of the network compartments. One exemplary machine for performing such a freeze drying process is a Virtis Genesis Series lyophilizer which is commercially available from SP Industries Inc. of Gardiner N.Y.

The process parameters of the lyophilization process may be varied to produce foams of varying pore sizes and material densities. For example to produce foams having a relatively small pore size and a relative high material density the SIS fibrous material may be tightly compacted by removing the water in a substantially uniform manner so as to achieve a relatively high density. Thereafter the SIS fibrous material is flash frozen using liquid nitrogen prior to lyophilization of the SIS. To produce foams having a moderate pore size and a moderate material density the SIS fibrous material is first tightly compacted by removing the water in a substantially uniform matter so as to achieve a relatively high density. Thereafter the SIS is frozen at a relatively fast rate e.g. 1 C. min. to a temperature of about 80 C. prior to lyophilization of the SIS.

As shown in the photomicrographs in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 344 entitled Porous Extracellular Matrix Scaffold and Method filed by Prasanna Malaviya Herbert Schwartz and Pamela Plouhar the result of using the above described process and materials is an ECM foam comprising a three dimensional web of naturally occurring ECM defining a plurality of three dimensional pores. The foam has three dimensional pores throughout its height width and thickness the three dimensional pores are interconnected to define a plurality of interconnected passageways. These interconnected passageways may be used for movement of cells such as chondrocytes in vivo. These interconnected passageways can also be used for the introduction of bioactive agents biologically derived agents e.g. stimulants cells biocompatible inorganic materials biocompatible polymers and or biological lubricants that may be combined with the foam as described below prior to implantation. The interconnected passageways defined by the three dimensional pores also serve as passageways for materials used during the manufacturing process such as compounds used for chemical cross linking the foam.

The tissue regeneration material may be chemically cross linked with for example aldehydes carbodiimides glycation agents enzymes e.g. transglutaminase biologics e.g. fibrin or the like. The tissue regeneration material may also be physically cross linked by for example freeze drying heat fusion thermal cross linking radiation fusion ultraviolet or gamma irradiation or combinations of fusion techniques such as by drying at elevated temperatures dehydrothermal cross linking .

The base and or the mass of tissue regeneration material may also be impregnated with bioactive agents biologically derived agents cells biocompatible polymers biocompatible inorganic materials and biological lubricants. The materials could be crosslinked or otherwise affixed to the ECM base and or mass. Alternatively cells e.g. fibrochondrocytes may be cultured on the ECM base and or mass and as a result subsequently be implanted as part of the unitary surgical device at the time of implantation. For the meniscus repair device any such cells are preferably fibrochondrocytes or mesenchymal stem cells.

 Bioactive agents include one or more of the following chemotactic agents therapeutic agents e.g. antibiotics steroidal and non steroidal analgesics and anti inflammatories anti rejection agents such as immunosuppressants and anti cancer drugs various proteins e.g. short chain peptides bone morphogenic proteins glycoprotein and lipoprotein cell attachment mediators biologically active ligands integrin binding sequence ligands various growth and or differentiation agents e.g. epidermal growth factor IGF I IGF II TGF I III growth and differentiation factors vascular endothelial growth factors fibroblast growth factors platelet derived growth factors insulin derived growth factor and transforming growth factors parathyroid hormone parathyroid hormone related peptide bFGF TGFsuperfamily factors BMP 2 BMP 4 BMP 6 BMP 12 sonic hedgehog GDF5 GDF6 GDF8 PDGF small molecules that affect the upregulation of specific growth factors tenascin C hyaluronic acid chondroitin sulfate fibronectin decorin thromboelastin thrombin derived peptides heparin binding domains heparin heparan sulfate DNA fragments and DNA plasmids. If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention and such substances should be included in the meaning of bioactive agent and bioactive agents unless expressly limited otherwise. It should be understood that the above agents are identified by way of example only and the present invention is not limited to any particular agent unless expressly called for in the claims.

 Biologically derived agents include one or more of the following bone autograft allograft and xenograft and derivates of bone cartilage autograft allograft and xenograft including for example meniscal tissue and derivatives ligament autograft allograft and xenograft and derivatives derivatives of intestinal tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of stomach tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of bladder tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of alimentary tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of respiratory tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of genital tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example submucosa derivatives of liver tissue autograft allograft and xenograft including for example liver basement membrane derivatives of skin autograft allograft and xenograft platelet rich plasma PRP platelet poor plasma bone marrow aspirate demineralized bone matrix insulin derived growth factor whole blood fibrin and blood clot. Purified ECM and other collagen sources are also intended to be included within biologically derived agents. If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention and such substances should be included in the meaning of biologically derived agent and biologically derived agents unless expressly limited otherwise. It should be understood that the above agents are identified by way of example only and the present invention is not limited to any particular agent unless expressly called for in the claims.

 Cells include one or more of the following chondrocytes fibrochondrocytes osteocytes osteoblasts osteoclasts synoviocytes bone marrow cells mesenchymal cells stromal cells stem cells embryonic stem cells precursor cells derived from adipose tissue peripheral blood progenitor cells stem cells isolated from adult tissue genetically transformed cells a combination of chondrocytes and other cells a combination of osteocytes and other cells a combination of synoviocytes and other cells a combination of bone marrow cells and other cells a combination of mesenchymal cells and other cells a combination of stromal cells and other cells a combination of stem cells and other cells a combination of embryonic stem cells and other cells a combination of precursor cells isolated from adult tissue and other cells a combination of peripheral blood progenitor cells and other cells a combination of stem cells isolated from adult tissue and other cells and a combination of genetically transformed cells and other cells. If other cells are found to have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of these cells will have use in the present invention and such cells should be included within the meaning of cell and cells unless expressly limited otherwise. It should be understood that the above cells are identified by way of example only and the present invention is not limited to any particular type of cell unless expressly called for in the claims.

 Biological lubricants include hyaluronic acid and its salts such as sodium hyaluronate glycosaminoglycans such as dermatan sulfate heparan sulfate chondroitin sulfate and keratan sulfate synovial fluid and components of synovial fluid including mucinous glycoproteins e.g. lubricin tribonectins articular cartilage superficial zone proteins surface active phospholipids lubricating glycoproteins I II vitronectin and rooster comb hyaluronate. Biological lubricant is also intended to include commercial products such as ARTHREASE high molecular weight sodium hyaluronate available in Europe from DePuy International Ltd. of Leeds England and manufactured by Bio Technology General Israel Ltd. of Rehovot Israel SYNVISC Hylan G F 20 manufactured by Biomatrix Inc. of Ridgefield N.J. and distributed by Wyeth Ayerst Pharmaceuticals of Philadelphia Pa. HYLAGAN sodium hyaluronate available from Sanofi Synthelabo Inc. of New York N.Y. manufactured by FIDIA S.p.A. of Padua Italy and HEALON sodium hyaluronate available from Pharmacia Corporation of Peapack N.J. in concentrations of 1 1.4 and 2.3 for ophthalmologic uses . If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention and such substances should be included in the meaning of biological lubricant and biological lubricants unless expressly limited otherwise. In addition as new biological lubricants are identified or developed it is expected that at least some of them will be useful materials for the present invention. It should be understood that the above materials are identified by way of example only and the present invention is not limited to any particular material unless expressly called for in the claims.

 Biocompatible inorganic materials include materials such as hydroxyapatite all calcium phosphates alpha tricalcium phosphate beta tricalcium phosphate calcium carbonate barium carbonate calcium sulfate barium sulfate polymorphs of calcium phosphates ceramic particles and combinations of such materials. If other such substances have therapeutic value in the orthopaedic field it is anticipated that at least some of these substances will have use in the present invention and such substances should be included in the meaning of biocompatible inorganic material and biocompatible inorganic materials unless expressly limited otherwise.

It is expected that various combinations of bioactive agents biologically derived agents cells biological lubricants biocompatible inorganic materials biocompatible polymers can be used with the anchors bases and tissue repair material including tissue regeneration material of the present invention.

The unitary surgical devices of and may be sized to fit the standard gap left in the meniscus by a meniscectomy so that one unitary surgical device can be implanted to fill this gap . It may be desirable to make a plurality of sizes of such unitary surgical devices to encompass the standard range of gaps left by meniscectomies. In addition it may be desirable to plan to be able to use more than one unitary surgical device to fill the gap left by the meniscectomy so that a plurality of unitary surgical devices may be implanted adjacent to or overlapping with one another to fill the gap during the surgery.

To make a unitary surgical device that includes two anchors connected by a length of suture as the tissue repair material the anchors may be formed as described above. The anchors may be formed to include or machined to include an opening so that one end of each length of suture may be secured to one anchor. For example the anchors could be tubular so that one end of suture can be threaded through each anchor and then knotted to secure them together. Or the anchors could have a hole through which the suture end is threaded and then knotted.

To make a unitary surgical device that includes both a laminar base and suture as in the embodiments of and threads of suture may be placed between two layers of base material prior to completely forming the base so that the suture threads become integral with the base during the forming process. As illustrated the lengths of the suture threads should be great enough so that the suture ends extend substantially beyond the parallel end edges of the unitary surgical device to define the first fixating element and second fixating element at the opposite ends of the suture thread . As illustrated a plurality of suture threads may be made integral with each base. In the embodiments of and three long strands of suture are used so that the resulting unitary surgical device has a total of six fixating elements the first fixating element the second fixating element a third fixating element a fourth fixating element a fifth fixating element and a sixth fixating element . The three suture threads for this embodiment may be aligned so that one length of suture is positioned along the longitudinal centerline of the base and additional lengths of suture are positioned between the longitudinally aligned thread and the long edges of the base and aligned with the shape of the long edges of the base . The laminar base may then be made as described in the provisional application with each suture thread in place between two layers. The finished unitary surgical device will include the suture affixed to the base. The base of may then be folded about axis to form the wedge shaped structure shown in with the linear apex at the axis . If desired additional anchors such as barbs tacks or backstops for example could be secured to the free ends of the suture as illustrated in the embodiment of . It should be understood that fewer or more strands of suture may be used for the devices illustrated in and for example two strands of suture could be used or four strands of suture could be used.

For non laminar bases the suture threads could be positioned in or on the base material prior to final forming of the base. The base may then be formed as described above with the suture formed as an integral part of the base. In any case suture could also be adhered to the base or could be sewn to the base.

To make the embodiments of an anchor such as a barb may be positioned on the surface of base laminates as shown in where anchor is shown on layers of laminate. Then additional layers such as layers shown in may be placed on the initial base laminate surrounding part of the anchor . The unitary surgical device may then be formed with the anchor becoming secured to at least some of the layers of the base as the layers are dried heated and compressed. Other forms of anchor can be positioned on the base during fabrication of the base so that completion of the base also secures the anchors to the base to form a unitary structure.

Any of the anchors could also be secured to the base after the base is formed by for example using an adhesive to secure the anchor to the base. Suitable adhesives for this purpose include commercially available materials such as those containing fibrin or transglutaminase. It should be understood that other methods for securing the anchors to the base are within the scope of this invention the invention is not limited to any particular method of securing the elements together unless expressly called for in the claims.

All of the illustrated embodiments of the invention may be prepared for use in surgery by providing prepackaged unitary surgical devices or kits. Thus for example after making any of the illustrated embodiments of unitary surgical device a single unitary surgical device can be packaged and terminally sterilized so that the surgeon may simply open the package and implant the device. It may be desirable to prepackage a kit including several unitary surgical devices of different sizes. As discussed above for the embodiments of a kit could include several unitary surgical devices each with a pair of anchors separated by a variety of fixed lengths of suture as the tissue repair material. For the embodiments of and each device could be made in a plurality of sizes such as small medium and large a kit could comprise a group of unitary surgical devices of all sizes or a group of unitary surgical devices all of one size for example. Conventional commercially available packaging materials and sterilization techniques can be used. For example gamma irradiation or electron beam irradiation can be used for this terminal sterilization. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to any particular packaging material or sterilization technique unless expressly called for in the claims.

If any of the embodiments are to be seeded with living cells such as chondrocytes the terminally sterilized implant can subsequently be seeded with living cells and packaged in an appropriate medium for the cell type used. For example a cell culture medium comprising Dulbecco s Modified Eagles Medium DMEM can be used with standard additives such as non essential aminoacids glucose ascorbic acid sodium pyrovate fungicides antibiotics etc. in concentrations deemed appropriate for cell type shipping conditions etc.

Use of the illustrated embodiments of the invention is described below. All of the embodiments of the present invention may be used in surgical repair of a damaged meniscus as illustrated in where the meniscal injury is illustrated as a meniscal tear extending down from the top bearing surface of the meniscus between the inner arcuate edge of the meniscus and the back or outer arcuate surface of the meniscus . It should be understood that the drawings show the meniscus in simplified form for purposes of illustration only.

The first group of illustrated unitary surgical repair devices illustrated in are useful for surgical meniscal repairs. With each of these devices the objective is the same to position the anchors beyond the tear and to position the tissue repair material comprising suture in the embodiments of across the tear . For each of these embodiments a surgical kit would generally be provided with several unitary surgical devices with varying lengths of suture provided in the kit. The meniscal tear is evaluated and the meniscus is prepared in the standard manner. From the initial evaluation the surgeon determines the length of device that is needed to extend across the meniscal injury for the particular patient and then selects one of the devices from the surgical kit. Using the embodiments illustrated in at least one of the anchors such as first anchor is positioned within the meniscus while the second anchor is positioned on the back arcuate surface of the meniscus with the suture connecting the anchors and extending across the tear . The first anchor is pushed far enough into the meniscus to approximate the two inner surfaces of the meniscal tear . The shapes of the anchors hold their final position. Neither anchor is exposed on a bearing surface of the meniscus. For the embodiments of preferably the anchor that bears against the back non bearing surface of the meniscus is positioned first and then the anchor that extends into the interior of the meniscus is positioned. A tubular needle such as that used with the RAPIDLOC Meniscal Repair System could be employed. Such a device could have a cable or similar structure running through the needle and connected to a trigger or similar device to selectively to implant one of the anchors. The surgeon could insert the needle through the top articular surface of the meniscus and push the needle through the body of the meniscus until reaching the back surface . The trigger may then be operated to release one of the anchors such as anchor in against the back surface of the meniscus. At this stage a length of suture extends out of the top surface of the meniscus and extends to the other anchor . The surgeon may then use a pair of forceps of similar device and push the anchor through the top surface and into the body of the meniscus until the two surface at the tear are approximated. Both anchors should then stay in place holding the meniscus as shown in so that the meniscus can heal. Similar surgical procedures may be used to implant the embodiments of the unitary surgical devices illustrated in . It should be understood that this surgical technique is provided by way of example only and that the present invention is not limited to any particular surgical technique unless expressly called for in the claims. Additional unitary surgical devices can be implanted until all the tissue surfaces are adequately approximated and the tear is stabilized.

In some instances it may be desirable to facilitate healing of the torn meniscus by using a unitary surgical device of the type shown in . With these embodiments of the invention the base and tissue regeneration material are thin and nearly planar in cross section. The anchoring devices are used for delivering the unitary surgical device to the proper location in the meniscal tear between the two inner surfaces of the meniscal tear . With these devices the first anchor or first and second anchors are inserted on the end of one or two needles not shown and the needles are pushed through the inner surface of the meniscal tear and through the body of the meniscus and out through the back side of the meniscus . The anchoring device or devices are moved through the back of the meniscus until one of the faces of the unitary surgical device is juxtaposed with the inner surface of the meniscal tear as shown in . The remaining suture at the back of the meniscus may be cut off removed and discarded. Once the unitary surgical device is in place in the meniscal tear as shown in the surgeon may then approximate the meniscal inner surface and the opposite face of the base of the unitary surgical device and secure the parts in this position using suture or another unitary surgical device such as one of the devices of . illustrate the meniscus with the tear approximated to the implanted unitary surgical device . In the surfaces of the meniscus and the implanted unitary surgical device are secured together with suture shown at while in the surfaces are secured together with another unitary surgical device of the type shown in .

Instruments that may be used in delivering the unitary surgical devices of may include a Meniscal Applier REF 228000 available from the Mitek Products division of Ethicon Inc. of Westwood Mass. The Mitek Meniscal Applier may be modified to provide a greater curvature if desired. 90 mosquito forceps may also be used to implant the unitary surgical devices.

If the injury or damage to the meniscus is so severe that a meniscectomy or partial meniscectomy is necessary the surgeon may remove a portion of the meniscus as illustrated in . Generally the surgeon will remove the damaged or diseased tissue as shown in leaving a generally wedge shaped void . It should be understood that the illustrations in are simplified for purposes of illustration the actual area of removed tissue may look different from that illustrated. The portion of the meniscus that is removed is from the inner arcuate edge of the meniscus to a position inward of the back arcuate surface of the meniscus so that an arcuate portion of the back of the meniscus remains after the meniscectomy. This back portion to the meniscus shown at in and . Although the meniscectomy can extend to the highly vascularized red zone of the meniscus the back portion can include more than red zone tissue.

With part of the meniscus removed the surgeon may opt to use one of the embodiments of the unitary surgical device illustrated in and . Considering each embodiment in order the unitary surgical device of the embodiment is wedge shaped in cross section and may be placed so that the tissue regeneration material and the base fit within the void left after part of the meniscus has been removed. The first and second anchors comprise two lengths of suture secured to a disc of biocompatible and bioabsorbable material. The first and second anchoring sutures extend through a part of the tissue regeneration material and out through the lower face of the base . These anchoring sutures may be pushed through the back portion of the meniscus as shown in and pulled tight until the back surface of the device is juxtaposed with the front surface of the back portion of the meniscus. The ends of the two anchoring sutures may then be tied against the back surface of the meniscus as shown in .

In the embodiment of the base is somewhat larger than the wedge of tissue regeneration material extending rearward of the back surface of the tissue regeneration material and forming upper and lower projections as shown in . In this embodiment the first and second anchoring sutures comprise a length of suture extending substantially across one dimension of the base at the back of the base and out through holes in the base . The two anchor sutures may be inserted with a needle or similar device not shown through the front surface of the back red portion of the meniscus or through the bottom surface of the body of the meniscus. The two anchoring sutures may be pushed through the body of the meniscus and through the arcuate back surface where they may be tied off as shown in . As shown in the unitary surgical device substantially fills the void left by the meniscectomy. As shown in the front surface of the vascularized portion of the meniscus abuts the back surface of the tissue regeneration material so that the blood vessels may deliver cells and other materials to the tissue regeneration material for the healing process.

The anchoring sutures may also be along the top of the base as shown in the embodiment of and the upper projection may be greater than the lower projection . It should be understood that the lower projection could also be made to be greater than the upper projection .

As shown in the anchoring sutures can also be connected directly to the back surface of the mass of tissue regeneration material . To make such a unitary surgical device these anchoring sutures could be positioned prior to final forming of the tissue regeneration material adhered to the tissue regeneration material or mechanically attached to the tissue regeneration material such as by sewing the suture to the tissue regeneration material any of these methods of securing the anchors to the tissue regeneration material would be performed prior to implantation of the unitary surgical device. Also as shown in the top portion of the base need not be secured to the mass of tissue regeneration material the top portion of the base could instead be sutured to the back vascularized portion of the meniscus as shown at in .

As shown in the embodiment of and a plurality of anchors may be provided. As shown in the unitary surgical device of may be implanted by extending one group of sutures over the top of the vascularized portion of the meniscus one group of sutures under the vascularized portion of the meniscus and moving the unitary surgical device toward the vascularized portion so that the unitary surgical device fills the void in the meniscus. All of the sutures may than be anchored to the back surface of the vascularized portion of the meniscus as shown in . As can be seen from in this embodiment the upper projection and under projection both cover the portion of the upper surface between the surfaces and and the portion of the lower surface of the meniscus between the surfaces and .

As shown in the embodiment of the unitary surgical device need not be wedge shaped. The base could comprise a flat sheet with a pillow or other mass of tissue regeneration material shaped to fill the void left by the meniscectomy. The unitary surgical device may then be fixated to the meniscus by using a needle to push the anchoring sutures through the top surface of the meniscus and then through the body of the meniscus and out through the back surface of the meniscus where the anchoring sutures may be tied thereby fixating the unitary surgical device to the meniscus. The unitary surgical device of the embodiment may be fixated in a similar manner.

In addition as shown in the embodiment of a flat base could be provided with a wedge or otherwise shaped mass of tissue regeneration material fixed to the base. The base could include two fixating members comprising for example two lengths of suture . A third fixating member could also be included in the unitary surgical device. In the embodiment of the third fixating member comprises a backstop and a length of suture affixed to the mass of tissue regeneration material with the length of suture extending through the mass of tissue regeneration material as in the embodiment of .

As shown in a unitary surgical device substantially like that shown in may be provided with barbed darts affixed to the ends of sutures to define the first and second anchors . The unitary surgical device of the embodiment may be fixated to the meniscus in a manner similar to that shown in except instead of tying the ends of suture for fixation the barbed darts may be pressed into the body of the meniscus to thereby fixate the device to the meniscus.

The embodiment of is similar to the embodiment of and except in the embodiment of each anchor includes a barbed dart at the end of a length of suture. To implant this embodiment the anchors are moved over and under the portion of the meniscus behind the void and the barbed darts are pushed into the body of the meniscus through the back of the meniscus. The barbed darts are pushed in until the unitary surgical device is properly fixated. The barbs on the darts prevent the darts from being pulled out.

The embodiment of is similar to that of except that instead of using suture as the first and second anchors barbed darts are affixed to extend outward from the back of the mass of tissue regeneration material . To implant this unitary surgical device the upper and lower projections are moved over and under the surfaces of the vascularized portion of the meniscus behind the void until the barbed darts enter the face of the meniscus at the back of the void created during the meniscectomy. The barbs on the dart fixate the implant in place against the meniscus. It should be understood that although only one anchoring barbed dart is illustrated in it is contemplated that more than a single anchoring device may be used in this embodiment. In addition although the top panel of the base may be affixed to the mass of tissue regeneration material by adhesion cross linking mechanical fixation or the like the top panel can also be free from such connection and can be surgically fixated to the body of the meniscus as described above with respect to the embodiment of .

In the embodiment of the first and second anchors comprise mating darts and holes. The darts extend upward from the bottom projection and the mating holes are in the upper projection . The darts are long enough to extend through the body of part of the meniscus. The embodiment of may be fixated by placing the device in the void in the meniscus positioning the bottom projection under part of the meniscus so that the darts extend upward through the meniscus and exit the top of the meniscus. The top panel of the base may then be pressed down so that the tops of the darts extend through the holes and lock the top and bottom portions of the base together and to the meniscus.

In the embodiment of the first and second anchors comprise tacks and an additional pair of tacks are provided as third and fourth anchors . In the embodiment of the mass of tissue regeneration material is affixed to the top panel of the base by adhesive cross linking chemical or physical or through mechanical means. The tacks are provided on both the upper and lower projections . When implanted the mass of tissue regeneration material fits within the void left after the meniscectomy and the projections are positioned over and under the upper and lower surfaces of the meniscus between the surfaces and of the meniscus. The tacks extend into the body of the meniscus between the surfaces and thereby fixating the unitary surgical device to the meniscus.

In the embodiment of the unitary surgical device is implanted in a manner similar to the other embodiments. The device is positioned so that the void is substantially filled by the mass of tissue regeneration material . Then the top panel is moved to place the upper projection over the top surface of the portion of the meniscus behind the void and the bottom panel is moved to place the lower projection under the lower surface of the meniscus behind the void . The female locking member is pushed upward through the lower surface and into the body of the meniscus and the male locking member is pushed downward through the upper surface into the body of the meniscus until at least part of the male locking member is received in the female locking member thereby fixating the device to the meniscus.

In the embodiment of the device may be fixated by first implanting the female locking member using a hollow needle delivery system like that described above for implanting the device of . The female locking member is pushed through the surface through the body of the meniscus and out through the surface . The suture extends through this passageway and through part of the implant such as through the mass of tissue regeneration material and through the top panel of the base. The device may be moved into position with the mass of tissue regeneration material located in the void and against the vascularized portion of the meniscus. The male locking member is then pushed into the female locking member thereby fixating the unitary surgical device to the meniscus .

The embodiment of may be used either as a means of approximating the inner surfaces of a meniscal tear as shown in or as a means of fixating a tissue regenerating implant after a partial meniscectomy as shown in . To approximate the surfaces of a tear as shown in the base backstop element in may be inserted using a commercially available device such as a Mitek Meniscal Applier as described above. Additional standard equipment may then be used to move the first and second anchors through the non articulating outer surface of the meniscus up through the upper articulating surface of the meniscus across the tear and back into the body of the meniscus until the anchors are embedded in the meniscus. To fixate a separate tissue regenerating implant as illustrated in the unitary surgical device of may be inserted as described above or could be inserted from the outer non articulating side of the meniscus. The anchors could be pushed through the outer non articulating surface of the meniscus through the body of the meniscus up through the upper articulating surface of the meniscus and through the overlying upper portion of the top panel of the implant. The anchors may then be moved across a portion of the upper surface of the top panel of the implant and back into the body of the outer portion of the meniscus to fixate the implant in place.

An additional embodiment of a unitary surgical device is illustrated in . In this embodiment the upper projection has a plurality of pre formed holes along the outer edge. Each hole could thereby comprise a fixating member as shown at and . These holes could be pre formed in the base so that the surgeon may easily and quickly suture the unitary surgical implant of to the outer vascular area of the meniscus through the holes as shown in . To implant such a device the a length of suture shown at in with a backstop shown at in could be used. The backstop could be positioned against the outer arcuate surface of the meniscus and then the suture could be stitched to both the unitary surgical device and the vascularized area of the meniscus using for example a corkscrew needle not shown . With such pre formed holes in the unitary surgical device there is little risk of damaging the device during implantation.

Additional surgical techniques can be employed in implanting surgical device of the type described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 195 794 entitled Meniscus Regeneration Device and Method by Prasanna Malaviya Herbert Schwartz David Whalen Mark Pelo Phil Jenks Pamela Plouhar and Jerry Lower.

While only specific embodiments of the invention have been described and shown it is apparent that various alternatives and modifications can be made thereto. Moreover those skilled in the art will also recognize that certain additions can be made to these embodiments. It is therefore the intention in the appended claims to cover all such alternatives modifications and additions as may fall within the true scope of the invention.

