---

title: Cryotomography x-ray microscopy state
abstract: An x-ray microscope stage enables alignment of a sample about a rotation axis to enable three dimensional tomographic imaging of the sample using an x-ray microscope. A heat exchanger assembly provides cooled gas to a sample during x-ray microscopic imaging.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07822174&OS=07822174&RS=07822174
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 07822174
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060420
---
Apr. 20 2005 and is a U.S. National Phase filing of Patent Application PCT US2006 15140 filed Apr. 20 2006 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. This application is also related to Patent Application PCT US200615162 filed Apr. 20 2006.

The invention described and claimed herein was made in part utilizing funds supplied by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract Number DE AC03 76SF00098 and by the National Institutes of Health under Grant Number R01 GM63948 03. The U.S. government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to the field of microscopy and more specifically to a precision specimen stage for use with high resolution x ray microscopy.

Among the most commonly used microscopic techniques for imaging whole cells or other materials in biology or materials science are UV visible light microscopy or transmission electron microscopy TEM . UV visible light microscopy has the advantage of being able to image under ambient conditions and thus able to image dynamic processes such as cell dynamics. However UV visible light microscopy has limited resolution. TEM provides excellent resolution however in the case of biological samples extensive preprocessing is required and the imaging must be done under vacuum. In the case of imaging cells with TEM the cells usually must be dehydrated embedded in plastic and then ultra thin sections 10 100 nm of the cells must be prepared for separate imaging owing to the limited depth of focus when using electrons.

Recently microscopic imaging using soft x rays has shown promise. Samples have been imaged using soft x rays using both scanning transmission x ray microscopy STXM where a sample is rastered through the source beam and the intensity of x rays transmitted through the sample is measured point by point and transmission x ray microscopy TXM where full field transmission of x rays through a sample is detected using a CCD charge coupled device camera. Imaging of whole cells with soft x rays may be accomplished by rapid freezing of fully hydrated cells. Thus no preprocessing is required as in TEM and high resolution approaching 20 nm can be obtained.

Owing to the need that samples in x ray microscopy be cryogenically frozen and maintained x ray microscope stages require a means for continuous cooling of the sample. Previous methods have included placing a liquid nitrogen bath below the sample thermal conduction from a liquid nitrogen bath to the sample holder or providing a stream of liquid nitrogen cooled helium gas to the sample. These methods lack precise temperature control and may require gas stream rates that could disturb the sample during imaging. Thus there is a need for improved cryogenic x ray microscope stages.

Three dimensional imaging of samples has been accomplished using light TEM and x ray microscopic techniques. For example 3D imaging using light microscopy has been conducted using confocal two photon confocal through focus deconvolution and interferometric methods. In the case of TEM individually imaged sections can be reconstructed to produce a 3D image. In the case of x ray microscopy 3D images can be constructed using computed tomography. Tomography has been accomplished with x ray microscopy by taking a series of images either using STXM or TXM at different sample tilt angles. In order for the computed tomography algorithms to function properly the images must be aligned relative to the same rotation axis. Previously such alignment has been accomplished by either re aligning the sample between each image or by including fiducial markers with the sample and then using a 3D marker module to align the images. However these techniques require tedious and time consuming manual procedures and may introduce additional error into the resulting image. Additionally the use of fiducial markers may interfere with the sample. Accordingly fast and automated sample alignment for tomographic x ray microscopy is needed.

In one embodiment an x ray microscope stage is provided that allows accurate alignment of a sample relative to a rotation axis. In some embodiments once aligned the sample can be accurately rotated about the rotation axis with little deviation from the axis in order to allow precise imaging for computed tomography without the need to adjust the alignment of each image. In some embodiments the stage allows for three dimensional image acquisition in 10 minutes or less in other embodiments in 3 minutes or less. In some embodiments the image acquisition is automated so that once the sample is aligned the pressing of a single button or some other simple activation method results in three dimensional image acquisition.

In another embodiment an x ray microscope stage is provided that provides a stream of a first cooled gas to maintain the sample at cryogenic temperatures. The first gas is cooled in a heat exchanger that is also in thermal contact with a second gas. The second gas may be flowed through the heat exchanger at a fast rate to provide efficient heat transfer from the first gas thus allowing the first gas to be cooled rapidly. In contrast the first gas may flow slowly so that it flows gently along the sample carrier or sample holder. The terms sample carrier and sample holder are used interchangeably throughout this disclosure. A gentle perhaps non turbulent flow reduces the chance that the sample will be disturbed by the gas flow during image acquisition.

A typical x ray microscopy configuration that can be used with the x ray microscope stages described herein is depicted in . X ray source radiation is provided to sample . One or more Fresnel zone plate lenses is used as an objective lens and the resulting image is detected by an x ray sensitive CCD . In some embodiments the x ray source is a soft x ray source with wavelengths between about 0.1 nm and 10 nm. In other embodiments the x ray source is a hard x ray source with wavelengths between about 0.01 nm and 0.1 nm. In one embodiment soft x ray radiation within the water window is used that is x rays with a range of photon energies between the K shell absorption edges of carbon 284 eV and oxygen 543 eV . In this energy range organic matter absorbs approximately an order of magnitude more strongly than water. Thus within the water window x rays are advantageous for imaging organic matter such as cells. In one embodiment x ray radiation is generated using a synchrotron electron storage ring. In various embodiments a bend magnet undulator wiggler or other magnet configuration is used with the synchrotron to generate the x ray radiation . In another embodiment the x ray radiation is produced by laser plasma sources. In some embodiments the CCD is a thin back illuminated slow scan CCD camera. In other embodiments the CCD can be replaced by a camera with appropriate photographic film.

In some embodiments the x ray microscope stage may comprise a window selector for selecting various windows through which the sample may be viewed. For example a window is depicted in . The window may be made of any materials appropriate for use with x ray imaging visible imaging UV imaging or any other suitable imaging technique. In one embodiment a window selector such as that depicted in comprises a slide assembly that contains two or more windows along the slide assembly. For example an x ray window and an optical window may be provided. The windows or may be selected by sliding slide assembly so that the selected window or is adjacent the sample carrier . When optical window is selected an optical microscope may be used for imaging the sample. In one embodiment optical imaging may be used to align the sample carrier .

In one embodiment three dimensional imaging of a sample is performed using an x ray microscope and computed tomography. The sample carrier is adjusted prior to image acquisition so that when the sample carrier is rotated the rotation axis is aligned with the central axis of the sample carrier. The adjustment may be conducted using a tilt stage whose tilt angle may be adjusting using precision motors such as picomotors. In one embodiment the tilt stage allows adjustment of the angle of the sample carrier relative to the axis of rotation of the precision bearing that is coupled to the rotation motor. In another embodiment the tilt stage further comprises an x y stage for moving the axis of the sample carrier laterally relative to the axis of rotation of the precision bearing.

In one embodiment adjusting the alignment of the sample carrier axis prior to imaging such as by using a tilt stage greatly enhances the speed at which three dimensional images may be acquired. depicts a flow chart of a method for pre aligning a sample carrier prior to tomographic x ray imaging. At block the sample carrier is aligned. At block an x ray image of the sample is obtained. At decision block it is determined if additional images at different sample angles are desired. If additional images are desired the sample carrier is rotated a fixed amount at block . An additional image is then acquired at block . The process is repeated until all desired sample angles have been imaged. Computed tomography is then performed on all of the images obtained at different angles to construct a three dimensional image of the sample at block .

The alignment process at block may be conducted by imaging the sample carrier using optical microscopy low dose x ray microscopy other microscopic technique or a combination thereof. The alignment process may be conducted by rotating the sample carrier through several angles and adjusting the alignment until the axis of rotation does not change through the rotation e.g. the sample carrier does not wobble excessively during rotation. In some embodiments fiducial markers are included on the sample carrier. In one embodiment the fiducial markers are mixed with the sample. In another embodiment the fiducial markers are adhered to the sample carrier. For example when the sample carrier is a capillary the fiducial markers may be adhered to the interior surface of the capillary. In one embodiment the fiducial markers are gold particles. In one embodiment the fiducial markers may be markings manufactured or drawn onto the sample carrier. In some embodiments alignment is conducted without the use of fiducial markers.

Alignment of the sample carrier using a tilt stage is illustrated in . Rotation motor is coupled to precision bearing which is coupled to tilt stage . In one embodiment the tilt stage comprises stationary platform and tilt platform . Picomotors and are coupled to stationary platform and operate to control the angle of tilt of tilt platform relative to stationary platform . Sample carrier is coupled to the tilt platform . Rotation motor can induce rotation of the tilt stage and the sample carrier about axis of rotation . If the sample carrier is not aligned with axis of rotation than the sample carrier wobbles or precesses about the rotation axis when it is rotated by rotation motor . Thus for example as depicted in when sample carrier is not aligned with axis of rotation in the plane of the figure then when the sample carrier and tilt stage are rotated 180 degrees the rotated sample carrier will form an angle relative to the position of un rotated sample carrier . Alignment of the sample carrier may be improved by then adjusting the angle of the tilt platform using picomotors and by an amount of one half of in the plane of the figure. The process may be repeated in the plane perpendicular to the plane of the figure. Thus the angle of tilt stage can be adjusted independently in the plane of and in the plane perpendicular to and parallel to axis of rotation . Advantageously the sample carrier is aligned to be parallel or substantially parallel to the axis of rotation .

One embodiment of the alignment process is illustrated by the flow chart in . First the sample carrier is imaged at 0 degrees rotation and at 180 degrees rotation using an optical microscope at block . The alignment of the sample carrier is adjusted at block to counter any observed variation in the angle of the sample carrier between the two rotational orientations. Then at block the sample carrier is imaged using an optical microscope at 90 degrees rotation and 270 degrees rotation. The alignment of the sample carrier is again adjusted at block to counter any observed variation in the angle of the sample carrier. The sample carrier is then imaged at 0 degrees rotation and 180 degrees rotation using an x ray microscope. Alignment is adjusted at block to counter observed variation. The sample carrier is imaged at 90 and 270 degrees of rotation using an x ray microscope at block . Finally alignment is again adjusted at block . When performing alignment using an x ray microscope it may be advantageous to use a low dose x ray source. It should be appreciated that other angles than those mentioned may be used during the alignment procedure. In addition the number of angles imaged may be increased and or imaging at given angles repeated to enhance the accuracy of alignment.

In some embodiments the alignment procedure is automated. For example algorithms may be used to analyze the images of the sample carrier at various angles and then automatically adjust the tilt of the sample carrier. Fiducial markers on the sample carrier may aid such an automated process.

In one embodiment once the sample carrier is aligned alignment is maintained throughout rotation of the sample carrier during imaging through the use of a precision bearing. The precision bearing may be used to couple the rotation motor to the sample carrier optionally through the tilt stage. In one embodiment the precision bearing produces reproducible rotation to within about 80 nm. One embodiment of a precision bearing and associated components is depicted in . In this embodiment the bearing engages V shaped conical depression in support structure to provide a precision rotation point. The bearing is coupled to rotation motor . The rotation motor and the support structure are fixedly coupled to the same support structure . A U shaped support structure couples the bearing and motor to support structure which is coupled to the tilt stage e.g. the tilt stage in which is then coupled to the sample carrier e.g. the sample carrier in . The U shaped support structure transfers rotational motion from motor to the sample carrier. Precision bearing and depression provide precise reproducible rotation of the sample carrier.

The precision bearing of does not allow for continuous 360 degree rotation of the sample carrier because U shaped support structure will impinge upon support structure . Thus in another embodiment a precision bearing is provided that allows for 360 degree continuous rotation of the sample carrier. One such bearing is depicted in . Bearings and engage V shaped conical depressions and respectively in support structures and respectively. Support structures and contain through holes in the narrowest portions of depressions and through which support structure extends and couples bearings and together. The rotation motor and the support structures and are fixedly coupled to the same support structure . The bearings and are coupled to rotation motor and to support structure which is coupled to the tilt stage e.g. the tilt stage in which is then coupled to the sample carrier e.g. the sample carrier in . The precision bearing of enables 360 degree continuous rotation of the sample carrier.

In one embodiment the sample carrier is a capillary. The capillary may be manufactured by softening glass tubing and stretching the softened glass to from a thin capillary. The capillary may then be cut to the desired size. depicts a capillary positioned at the end of a glass tube . Glass tube has diameter . Capillary has diameter and length . In one embodiment diameter is approximately 1 mm. In one embodiment diameter is approximately 10 microns. In one embodiment length is approximately 300 microns. In one embodiment the diameter is approximately equal to the diameter of cells that are to be imaged. Thus a linear array of cells can fill capillary for imaging. In one embodiment capillary sample carrier is sufficiently straight so that once it has been aligned such as by the procedure described above imaging along approximately 200 microns of the capillary sample carrier can conducted without realignment. Thus for example the z stage on the x ray microscope stage may be adjusted after a tomographic image acquisition in order to image a different region along the length of capillary in a subsequent tomographic image acquisition. In one embodiment samples are loaded into the capillary by introducing them into glass tube and then forcing the samples into capillary such as by centrifugation or increased pressure. In another embodiment samples are loaded into the capillary by sucking the samples in through the capillary tip. In one embodiment the capillary and glass tube are constructed of quartz glass. Other possible materials include Pyrex glass.

In one embodiment the sample carrier is a substantially flat sample surface on which a sample can be placed. In one embodiment the flat sample carrier comprises a silicon nitride substrate upon which the sample is placed. Advantageously the flat sample carrier is constructed of an x ray transparent material.

In one embodiment a cooled gas is supplied to the sample carrier in order to freeze and or keep the sample frozen at a desired temperature. In one embodiment depicted in a first gas is cooled by passing through heat exchanger assembly where the first gas is in thermal contact with and exchanges heat with a second cooled gas . The first gas is cooled and then flows through a gas outlet and over sample carrier which is coupled to the rest of the x ray microscope stage . In one embodiment the second cooled gas is passed through the heat exchanger assembly at a flow rate faster than the first gas flow rate. The fast rate of flow of the second cooled gas enables fast heat exchange. The slow rate of flow of the cooled first gas prevents the sample from being disturbed by gas flow during imaging. The heat exchanger assembly may comprise multiple heat exchangers and . In the heat exchanger provides intermediate heat exchange and the heat exchanger provides low temperature heat exchange. The heat exchanger may also include heaters for fine tuning of the temperature of the cooled first gas flowing over the sample carrier . The second cooled gas may be cooled by any suitable means. In one embodiment the second cooled gas is cooled by passing it through liquid nitrogen. In another embodiment the second cooled gas is cooled by passing it through liquid helium or supercritical helium. In one embodiment the second cooled gas that flows through heat exchanger assembly is nitrogen. In another embodiment the second cooled gas is helium. In one embodiment the second cooled gas flows through a loop such that after heat exchange in the heat exchanger assembly it returns to be re cooled and then passed back to the heat exchanger assembly . In one embodiment the cooled first gas that flows over the sample carrier is helium. In general any fluid that is a gas and not liquid at the cryo temperature of interest can be used as the first gas . When soft x rays are used it is especially important to consider how well the first gas absorbs the soft x rays. If the first gas is good at absorbing soft x rays the quality of the x ray imaging will be adversely affected. Absorption is less of an issue with hard x rays as most gases suitable for use at cryo temperatures are not good at absorbing hard x rays. For example nitrogen gas at liquid nitrogen temperature can be used as the first gas with hard x rays

The budding yeast was imaged using an x ray microscope and a cyro tomographic microscope stage. were grown with rotary shaking at 25 degrees C. in liquid YPD medium 1 yeast extract 2 bapto peptone and 2 glucose . Just prior to imaging they were loaded into a 10 micron diameter capillary from the beveled tip end of the capillary using an Eppendorf microinjection apparatus. The yeast were examined in a light microscope then rapidly frozen with a blast of liquid nitrogen cooled helium gas and placed in the x ray microscope stage.

A soft x ray source generated by a bend magnet at the Advanced Light Source at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory was used. A Fresnel zone plate having 9 mm diameter with an outermost zone width of 55 nm and a focal length of 205 mm at 517 eV photon energy was used as a condenser. A Fresnel zone plate having a 40 micron diameter within outermost zone width of 35 nm and a focal length of 650 microns at 517 eV photon energy was used as an objective lens.

The sample capillary was aligned using microscopic imaging and a tilt stage with picomotors. 45 images were then collected through 180 degrees of rotation. The images were detected on a Peltier cooled back illuminated 1024 1024 soft x ray CCD camera. Three dimensional volume reconstruction was performed using weighted filtered back projection. Surface reconstruction and volume segmentation and rendering were performed using AmiraDev 3 software.

Tomography can accomplished with x ray microscopy by taking a series of images at different sample tilt angles. In order for the computed tomography algorithms to function properly the images must be aligned relative to the same rotation axis. Previously such alignment has been accomplished by either re aligning the sample between each image or by including fiducial markers with the sample and then using a 3D marker module to align the images. However these techniques require tedious and time consuming manual procedures and may introduce additional error into the resulting image. Fast and automated sample alignment for tomographic x ray microscopy can be provided by the embodiments of the invention disclosed herein.

One aspect of the present invention is an x ray microscope stage comprising a sample holder or carrier one or more tilt motors coupled to the sample holder and adapted to tilt the sample holder relative to a first axis and a rotation motor coupled to the sample holder and adapted to rotate the sample holder around a second axis that is parallel or substantially parallel to the first axis.

Another aspect of the present invention is a cryogenic x ray microscope stage comprising a gas outlet for providing a flow of a first cooled gas to a sample to be imaged by an x ray microscope and a heat exchanger coupled to the gas outlet for transferring heat from the first cooled gas to a second cooled gas wherein the second cooled gas flows through the heat exchanger at a rate faster than the first cooled gas.

Another aspect of the present invention is a x ray microscope stage comprising a means for holding a sample a means for tilting the sample relative to a first axis and a means for rotating the sample around a second axis that is parallel or substantially parallel to the first axis.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of imaging a sample comprising aligning a sample holder or carrier containing the sample relative to an axis after the aligning repeatedly collecting images using x rays that are passed through the sample at a plurality of angles relative to the sample the angles perpendicular or substantially perpendicular to the axis wherein the sample holder or carrier is not re aligned between collecting each image and performing computed tomography on the images obtained in order to construct a three dimensional image of the sample. In some arrangements the plurality of angles are obtained by rotating the sample about the axis. The aligning step can include imaging at least a portion of the sample holder through a visible light microscope. In another embodiment the aligning step can include imaging at least a portion of the sample holder with an x ray microscope. In another embodiment the aligning step can include imaging fiducial markers in the sample holder. The fiducial markers can be gold particles and the gold particles can be mixed in the sample in the sample holder or the markers can be on the outside of the sample holder. The gold particles can be adhered to the surface of at least a portion of the sample holder.

