---

title: User interface for a wireless device
abstract: Various embodiments of a user interface for a wireless device are described. In one embodiment, a wireless device may include a processor, a memory coupled to the processor, and a display coupled to the processor. The processor presents a navigation bar on the display. The navigation bar comprises multiple selectable tabs. The processor detects an input corresponding to a selection of any one of the multiple tabs and presents a user interface view associated with the any one of the multiple tabs on the display when the input is detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839146&OS=08839146&RS=08839146
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08839146
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060905
---
Handheld information organization and communications devices are becoming increasingly popular for both business users and more general users. These handheld devices may be referred to as personal digital assistants PDA pocket personal computers pocket PC palmtop computers smart phones handheld computers and so forth. A handheld device may be small enough to fit into a purse or a pocket and may weigh less than one pound. As a result the handheld device is very portable. Some examples of handheld devices for organizing calendars storing personal contact information and or providing communication functionality include the 3Com line of Palm handheld computers the Palm Treo line of smart phones the Handspring Visor line of handheld computer systems and the Microsoft PocketPC.

These handheld devices may include telephone software applications. For example with a telephone application a user may dial a number look up a contact personalize and show a wallpaper image display alerts and other status items set up links favorites to speed dials and other applications universal resource locators URLs and also may include functionality for cellular carrier requirements.

These handheld devices may include other applications to hold and manage personal information. For example an address book application may be used to store and access a list of acquaintances and contact details. Typically these handheld devices contain Personal Information Management PIM software applications such as an address book a calendar application a memo application and a To Do list application. Such handheld devices are generally small enough to be carried all the time and do not require any boot time before entering an operational state. Accordingly such handheld devices allow constant access to a large amount of personal information.

One aspect of a handheld device provides an intuitive method of quickly accessing the personal information data. In this regard handheld devices based on the Palm Operating System PalmOS have captured a large proportion of the handheld computer system market. With the PalmOS a user may select and manipulate data in a number of different ways. For example a user may use up down scroll buttons a user may select an item displayed on a touch screen and a user may scroll through different category lists by repeatedly pressing an application button.

A user may interact with the handheld device using a stylus or pen to touch a portion of the display screen. Electronic sensors in a display screen of the handheld device detect the point of contact between the stylus and the screen. The user can input information into the handheld device by tracing the shape of a character on the display screen. The user also may cause the handheld computer to perform a function by touching the name of the function when the name is displayed on the screen.

Handheld devices and other portable computing devices require considerable amount of user interaction. Because such devices are small user interface features of handheld devices are typically incorporated into a compact arrangement of buttons and display features. Display features on the handheld device may be contact sensitive. The contact sensitive nature of the display provides users with a rich and diverse means by which input can be entered and viewed. For example a handheld device may comprise a graphic user interface including a system of user interface views view buttons and or command buttons.

Various embodiments may be directed to systems and techniques to provide a graphic user interface user interface that may improve the performance of a wireless device to display content from a media source. In one embodiment for example a wireless device may include a display comprising a plurality of display regions to display elements associated with the user interface. The user interface may provide a functional interface to a variety of underlying applications. In various embodiments these underlying applications may be selected from a navigation bar displayed on the wireless device. The underlying applications may comprise for example a telephone application a dial pad application a favorites application a contacts application and a call log application. Additional or fewer applications may be associated with the user interface. In various embodiments each of the underlying applications may comprise associated views that may be invoked via respective navigation tabs that collectively form the navigation bar. For example the telephone application may be invoked by selecting a main telephone application tab on the navigation bar to display the telephone application user interface main view. The dial pad application may be invoked by selecting a dial pad tab on the navigation bar to display a dial pad view. The favorites application may be invoked by selecting a favorites tab on the navigation bar to display a favorites view. The contacts application may be invoked by selecting a contacts tab on the navigation bar to display a contacts view. The call log application may be invoked by selecting a call log tab on the navigation bar to display a call view.

The wireless device may comprise a housing . The housing may include one or more materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass and so forth suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of the wireless device . The wireless device may comprise various internal components such as for example a processor a memory one or more transceivers one or more printed circuit board PCBs and so forth. For example in one embodiment the wireless device may comprise a computing system as shown in and described below. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The wireless device may comprise various input output I O devices such as a keyboard keys buttons switches a microphone an audio headset a camera a touch sensitive display screen a stylus and so forth. As shown in for example the wireless device may comprise an alphanumeric keyboard having a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The wireless device may comprise various buttons such as for example a volume button a customizable button a send button a power end button a phone application button a menu button a start button an OK button and a navigation button . The wireless device may comprise an audio port to connect an audio headset a microphone a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

In one embodiment the navigation button may be used to enter navigation information corresponding to an upward downward rightward or leftward direction relative to the display . The navigation button may comprise left right up down and center keys which may be actuated to navigate and or select a particular function or menu on the display . Other embodiments may provide for a multi directional pad or element instead of the navigation button which can be actuated in multiple directions. Examples of such devices include a 4 5 or 8 way multidirectional pad or joy stick.

The wireless device may comprise a serial connection port an infrared port and or integrated Bluetooth wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations the wireless device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system. The wireless device also may comprise a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery and an AC adapter.

The wireless device may comprise an antenna system including one or more antennas such as an external antenna implemented by a stub antenna a whip antenna an extendable antenna and so forth. In various embodiments the antenna system may comprise one or more internal antennas such as a planar inverted F antenna a planar inverted L antenna an inverted F antenna with a helical structure an inverted L antenna with a helical structure a monopole antenna a meandered monopole antenna a dipole antenna a balanced antenna a printed helical antenna a chip antenna a ceramic antenna and so forth.

In various embodiments the antenna system may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands such as the 824 894 Megahertz MHz frequency band for GSM operations the 1850 1990 MHz frequency band for Personal Communications Services PCS operations the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations the 824 860 MHz frequency band for NAMPS operations the 1710 2170 MHz frequency band for Wide band CDMA Universal Mobile Telephone System WCDMA UMTS ISM band in 2.4 GHz range for WiFi and Bluetooth and other frequency bands. In various implementations the antenna system may be used to implement spatial diversity techniques such as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO diversity at both 800 MHz cellular and 1900 MHz PCS bands.

The wireless device may comprise a display . The display may be implemented by a LCD or other type of suitable visual interface. The display may comprise for example a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color display screen. In various implementations the display may comprise a thin film transistor TFT LCD including embedded transistors. In such implementations the display may comprise a transistor for each pixel to implement an active matrix. While the embodiments are not limited in this context an active matrix requires lower current to trigger pixel illumination and is more responsive to change than a passive matrix.

The display may be arranged to display media source content received by the wireless device . In various embodiments the display may be arranged to display the media source content in one or more modes such as in a panoramic mode a wide mode and or an optimized mode. In such embodiments the modes may be selected under user control.

The media source content may comprise for example image information video information and or audio visual A V information from a media source. In various embodiments the media source content may comprise data derived from or associated with one or more images image files image groups pictures digital photographs videos video clips video files video sequences video feeds video streams movies broadcast programming web pages user interfaces graphics regions objects frames slices macroblocks blocks pixels sub pixels signals and so forth.

In various implementations the media source content received and to be displayed may comprise pixels derived from or associated with one or more static or video images. The pixels may comprise for example red green blue RGB pixels and or luminance chrominance pixels e.g. YUV YCC and may include real and or integer values. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The media source generally may comprise any source capable of delivering media source content to the wireless device . An example of a media source may include a source for static or video image information such as from a computer to a display. The media source may include a server such as a web server arranged to deliver web content. Another example of a media source may include a source for A V information such as television signals. The media source may be arranged to deliver standard analog television content digital television content HDTV content and so forth. The media source may provide broadcast or streaming analog or digital video content. The media source may include a device arranged to deliver pre recorded media content stored in various formats such as a DVD device a Video Home System VHS device a digital VHS device a digital camera video camera a portable media player a gaming device and so forth.

In various embodiments the wireless device may be arranged to receive media source content through one or more wireless wide area network WWAN data communication services. Examples of cellular data communication systems offering WWAN data communication services may include a GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 RTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or EVDO systems Evolution for Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the media source content may comprise an aspect ratio and or a resolution that differs from the aspect ratio and or the resolution of the display . In one embodiment for example the media source content may have an aspect ratio of 3 2 with a resolution of 480 320 and the display may have an aspect ratio of 1 1 with a resolution of 320 320. In another embodiment for example the media source content may have an aspect ratio of 2 1 with a resolution of 640 320 and the display may have an aspect ratio of 3 2 with a resolution of 480 320. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some embodiments for example the wireless device may comprise display control hardware implemented by one or more processors controllers encoder devices decoder devices coder decoder CODEC devices scaling devices filters converters circuits chips logic devices logic gates switches registers semiconductor devices transistors or combination thereof.

In some embodiments for example the wireless device may comprise display control software implemented by one or more applications drivers programs modules subroutines instruction sets instructions computing codes or combination thereof. The display control software may be implemented according to a predefined computer language for instructing a processor to perform a certain function. Examples of a computer language may include C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language machine code micro code and so forth.

In one embodiment the wireless device may comprise a telephone software application telephone application . The telephone application may provide a user interface to make the telephone functionality of the wireless device easier to use and more appealing to a broader base of users such as users accustomed to using a simple wireless telephone rather than a handheld device with additional functionality such as the wireless device for example. The telephone application provides a user interface with multiple different views of information enabling a user to make telephone calls in an intuitive manner. The telephone user interface views may be implemented as viewing and dialing applications for the wireless device for example. From the telephone application a user may dial a number look up a contact personalize to show a wallpaper image display alerts and other status items and set up links favorites to speed dials and other applications URLs etc. The telephone application also may comprise the core functionality for the wireless device e.g. GSM handset and carrier requirements for example. In various embodiments the telephone application provides an integrated and extensible phone experience for the user with and also provides fast access to core the functionality of the wireless device even when the user is on an active call. The telephone application also may provide a substantially seamless user experience when looking up a contact for dialing.

In operation the wireless device displays information to the user in the display area. The telephone application provides one or more telephone user interface views in a predetermined structure. In one embodiment the wireless device may comprise several telephone user interface view components and other user interface components. The telephone user interface view components may include for example a main view contacts view dial pad view favorites view call log view and active call view. The other user interface components may include for example a redial list preferences edit favorite dialogs and incoming call alerts.

In various embodiments the user may select one of five main telephone application views via a navigation bar portion of the user interface 1 the dial pad view 2 the favorites view 3 the main view 4 the contacts view and 5 the call log view. Any of these five views may be selected as the as the default view by the user. It may be appreciated that these are merely some examples of telephone application views appropriate for this user interface and other telephone application views such as an active call view may be implemented as well. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As illustrated in the telephone user interface main view comprises the title bar . In one embodiment the title bar may include multiple elements. For example the title bar may comprise title text and one or more icons such as for example a Bluetooth icon an antenna icon a signal strength icon a battery meter icon and a data status icon for example. The icons may be referred to as gadgets. In one embodiment the title text may comprise for example phone status wireless carrier name network search no service call in progress and roaming information. For example when the radio of the wireless device is off the title text may display Phone Off. When the radio is on but not connected to a network the title text may display No Service. When the radio of the wireless device is roaming the title text may display Roaming or Out of Neighbor . . . for example. When a voice call is active and the wireless device displays the active call screen the title text may display the name of the wireless carrier e.g. Wireless Mobile in the embodiment illustrated in . When a voice call is active and the user is in the telephone application user interface main view or when the call forwarding is enabled the title text may display Call in Progress. 

Several menus may be accessed or launched from the main view . These menus may include for example a record menu an edit menu and or an option menu. Additional or fewer menus may be provided in various embodiments. The menus provide one or more methods for executing commands. The commands may be executed by actuating shortcut keys located on the alphanumeric keyboard . For example in the record menu a user may beam a business card using the M shortcut key on the alphanumeric keyboard . In the edit menu a user may paste information using the P shortcut key. The options menu allows a user to change line using the C shortcut key open a phone display options dialog using the Q shortcut key open a sound preferences dialog using the W shortcut key open the phone call preferences dialog using the A shortcut key open a dial preferences dialog box e.g. dialog box as shown in below using the Z shortcut key open a system preferences dialog using the S shortcut key lock the wireless device using the L shortcut key and or open a phone information dialog using the I shortcut key. In addition the options menu may allow different commands to be executed according to the wireless carrier supported by the wireless device .

The navigation bar and in various embodiments in conjunction with the navigation button allows a user to navigate to different telephone application views in accordance with predetermined navigation rules. In one embodiment when a navigation tab is selected the view associated with that navigation tab is displayed on the display . For example when the dial pad tab is selected the dial pad view below is displayed. If the favorites tab is subsequently selected the favorites view below is displayed without requiring a press of the center button of the navigation button to display the favorites view .

The following navigation rules may be applied to navigate between views using the navigation bar and the navigation button 

 1 If the dial pad tab is selected a left key press selects the call log tab and a right key press selects the favorites tab 

 2 If the favorites tab is selected a left key press selects the dial pad tab and a right key press selects the main tab .

 3 If the main tab is selected a left key press selects the favorites tab and a right key press selects the contacts tab .

 4 If the contacts tab is selected a left key press selects the main tab and a right key press selects the call log tab .

 5 If the call log tab is selected a left key press selects the contacts tab and a right key press selects the dial pad .

The telephone user interface main view or the main view shown in below may be accessed from outside or within the telephone application. From outside the telephone application the main view may be accessed by actuating the phone send button if the default view is set to the main view . From outside the telephone application the main view also may be accessed by tapping a Phone icon with a stylus in the launcher if the default view is set to the main view . From within the telephone application if the default view is set to the main view it may be accessed by actuating the phone send button . Or by selecting or tapping the main view tab on the navigation bar .

Navigation between views may be accomplished in accordance with the following example navigation model. The respective left right keys of the navigation button may provide navigation between the several views. Starting with the main view where the main tab is highlighted e.g. selected pressing the right key highlights the contacts tab and changes the view to the contacts view as shown in below and pressing the left key changes the view to the favorites view as shown in below. Views also may be changed by tapping on the buttons or tabs of the navigation bar using a stylus. In addition the respective up down keys of the navigation button may be used to navigate within a current view. Actuating the up down keys of the navigation button may move a focus ring or highlight region focus hereinafter to a previous item such as for example a calendar gadget a messaging icons and a voicemail icon among others.

In one embodiment an alphanumeric lookup feature may comprise an alpha lookup to simplify the dialing experience for the user. For example if the user enters characters that do not match a name in the contacts or speed dials databases the user may navigate to the dial pad view described below to dial the number for example. In one embodiment while the phone display options dialog screen is open the user may type the numbers on the alphanumeric keyboard to initiate dialing a phone number. Accordingly the wireless device may be configured such that typing the first few numbers of a telephone number on the keyboard may initiate dialing the telephone number automatically. In which case the phone number being typed is displayed in the dial pad view. The user will remain in the dial pad view until he she switches views or dials a call.

In another embodiment typing may initiate a contacts search. The contacts search initiates an alpha lookup described hereinbelow instead of an alphanumeric look up. A user may dial a telephone number manually from the main view when this option is selected by pressing the option key on the keyboard before typing in the first digit of the phone number that the user is dialing. When this option is selected a dialog box may be displayed to the user. The dialog box instructs the user that upon typing will now search your contacts instead of dialing a number. In addition the dialog box may instruct the user to press the option key to dial the number manually before typing the first number.

Pressing the send button while in the main view displays a redial list within the main view as shown in . The redial list shows previously dialed numbers. It is noted however that because the user may set their own default view it may be desired that the redial list be displayed in the dial pad view when the send button is pressed e.g. when no numbers are entered . The redial list may be displayed as a pop up and associated names may be displayed if there is a match in the contacts list a feature that may be associated with a call log list . The redial list may be displayed on the release key up of the send button after an initial press. Please note that this behavior also may apply when a call is in progress. If a call is in progress pressing the send button while in the main view displays the redial list while the phone application key toggles between the default main view and an active call view. Pressing and holding the send button while in the main view or dial pad view described below redials the last number called. The redial list may not be accessible from other telephone application views. Using the alphanumeric keyboard control the redial list may be displayed upon pressing the send button from the main view or the dial pad view . Alternatively the redial list may also be implemented outside of the main view with different views and in some cases outside of the phone application entirely. For example the functionality associated with the redial list may be implemented anywhere in the system and still fall within the scope of the embodiments. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The associated list view icon for each of the messaging applications appears in the messaging bar . Each of the application icons that appear in the messaging bar may be actionable. A focus may appear around the list view icon unread message count when a given application is selected. Pressing the center key of the navigation button when the list view icon count is selected or tapping the icon launches the associated application.

The icons that appear in the messaging bar may be determined in other application panels for example. In one embodiment the icons may be determined in a preferences default applications panel that may be customizable according to a wireless carrier. If the wireless carrier can configure a read only memory ROM without an MMS or an e mail client then the wireless carrier can elect to hide these options from the default applications panel for example. The telephone application may refer to the default applications panel to identify the exact application that has registered for SMS MMS and or e mail for example.

In one embodiment an associated message list view icon may appear in the messaging bar for each of the messaging applications. Each of the messaging application icons SMS MMS icon and or e mail icons are actionable. In other words selecting either icon launches the associated application. A focus may appear around the message list view icon plus the unread message count when a given messaging application message list view icon is selected. To launch an associated application the user may press the center key of the navigation button when the message list view icon and unread message count is selected or may tap on the messaging application message list view icons .

A messaging application may be configured to support an application programming interface API for reporting the number of unread messages. The API may be supported in all messaging applications that are provided with the wireless device . The messaging application may be responsible for reporting updates to the unread message count for example. If the messaging application does not report a value for unread messages then the count for unread messages may not be displayed and the relevant message list view icons are hidden from view on the messaging bar . When the message list view icon are visible they may be selected via the navigation button e.g. a 5 way button or by tapping on the icon with a stylus.

The messaging bar also displays the time and date information. The time and the date information may appear right justified in the messaging bar . The date may be displayed in a Palm OS standard Latin font for example and the time may be displayed in a Palm OS bold Latin font for example. The time and the date may be configured to follow the short format rules selected by the user in a format panel of the preferences application.

Navigation between views may be accomplished in accordance with the following example navigation model. With the focus on the calendar gadget pins a user may navigate down to other areas of the main view from the calendar gadget icons . Because there is no default focus in the main view selecting either the up key or the down key will place the focus on the calendar event bar or another icon depending on the next available displayed object in accordance with the following rules 1 selecting the up key moves the focus to the e mail icon on the right 2 selecting the up key moves the focus to the SMS MMS icon on the left and 3 selecting the up key again moves the focus to the voicemail icon . In the reverse direction with the focus on the voicemail icon a user may navigate in accordance with the following rules 1 selecting the down key moves the focus to the SMS MMS icon 2 selecting the down key moves the focus to the e mail icon and 3 selecting the down key moves the focus to calendar gadget . Navigation Table 1 illustrates one embodiment of navigation using a 5 way navigation button 

As shown in the telephone user interface main view may comprise the calendar event bar . In one embodiment the calendar event bar may comprise a calendar list view icon and the most recent calendar appointment . The most recent calendar appointment may be truncated at the end of the line with ellipsis if the entire text identifying the appointment does not fit on one line of the calendar event bar . The entire calendar event bar may be selected with the navigation button or by tapping in the calendar event bar with a stylus. When the user selects the calendar event bar by pressing the center button of the navigation button a calendar application is launched in and is displayed in day view. The most recent calendar appointment may be displayed in the calendar event bar in accordance with one or more calendar events rules. In accordance with a first rule the appointment with the most recent start time that is occurring now may be displayed. Now may be defined to be the current time for example. This appointment may be referred to as the Current Event. In accordance with a second rule the Current Event may be displayed until ths of the appointment has passed expired for example. At that point the next appointment is displayed which may be an appointment that has yet to occur and its start time is the closest to now. It will be appreciated that this rule applies when there is only one appointment occurring now. In accordance with a third rule if there are conflicting appointment overlapping appointments now this rule may not apply. For example if the user has a 1 hour appointment at 9 00 am and another at noon then the 9 00 am calendar event will appear in the telephone user interface main view within the calendar event bar until the actual time is 9 45 am for example. After 9 45 am the next appointment at noon will be displayed in the calendar event bar .

If on the other hand the user has a 2 hour appointment from 9 am to 11 am and another conflicting appointment from 9 15 am to 10 15 am and a noon event then the 9 am appointment will appear in the calendar event bar until 9 15 as the most recent calendar appointment . After 9 15 am the calendar event bar will be refreshed to indicate the 9 15 am appointment with the conflict icon . After 10 15 am the calendar event bar will be refreshed to display the original 9 00 am event that is ongoing. It will be appreciated that the 9 am event is displayed after 10 15 am because the conflict has expired. However the calendar event bar must be refreshed when the actual time is 10 30 to display the noon event . The noon event is displayed because the actual time of 10 30 is ths of the 9 am event time.

In accordance with a fourth rule the text No upcoming events may be displayed in the case where no appointments exist for a given day. For example if on Jan. 12 2004 the user has 0 appointments until the next appointment on Jan. 13 2004 at 8 am display No upcoming events until midnight on Jan. 12 2004. At 12 01 am on Jan. 13 2004 the calendar event bar is updated with the 8 am event on January 13.

In accordance with a sixth rule untimed events may be treated like 12 00 am events that expire at the end of the day. Untimed events may be displayed in the calendar event bar if no other upcoming events exist for the current day. In the case of multiple untimed events a conflict bar will be displayed to the left of the event.

In accordance with a seventh rule the text Private event may be displayed and the lock icon used in the calendar application for the case where the event has been marked private in the calendar application and the user has set the current privacy to mask records in the security application. In the case where the event has been marked private in the calendar application and the user has set the current privacy to hide records in the security application the text No upcoming events may be displayed.

Conflicting events may be prioritized in accordance with various criteria. For example a first criterion may try to show as many events as possible without randomly switching between events or a second criterion may try to alert as many new start times as possible. In a third criterion if two or more events cannot be prioritized by the first two criteria then the application may show the first in the list. Accordingly conflicts may be shown if all cases cannot be covered.

Some general rules for prioritizing conflicting events may include for example in accordance with the first and second criteria if two events of different durations end at the same time the event that starts earlier is displayed first and the one that starts later is displayed next. Otherwise in accordance with the first criterion if two events of different durations start at the same time the one that ends earlier is displayed first and to the one that ends later is displayed when the earlier one is 75 in progress. In addition in accordance with the third criterion if two events have exactly the same start and stop time the first one on the list is displayed. In one embodiment in order to show as many events as possible the application may randomly switch between the conflicting events. Moreover if two overlapping events have different durations but one has a shorter duration that starts and ends within the other one then the shorter one is displayed during the overlap but otherwise the longer one is displayed. If there are three events where two are back to back and the duration of the third is exactly the combination of the other two e.g. a 1 2 pm 2 3 pm and a 1 3 pm then 1 in accordance with the third criterion at the beginning neither the 1 2 pm nor 1 3 pm has higher priority so whichever is first in the list is displayed. In accordance with the second criterion the 2 3 pm is displayed as 2 pm approaches. Otherwise if there is a hodgepodge of multiple conflicts in accordance with the second and third criteria in general any event that has a new start time coming up may be displayed but otherwise just the event at the top of the list is displayed.

In other embodiments the idle mode text string may be displayed below the messaging bar . The idle mode text string may be displayed in any suitable font and may be displayed in Palm OS Standard Latin font for example. The idle mode text string may be truncated at the end of the line if it too long to fit with the idle mode text bar .

In one embodiment if the idle mode text string competes with other information to be displayed in the same bitmap area for example a CB Mobile Mail message then the idle mode text string may be replaced by the other information and when the other information is no longer required to be displayed the idle mode text string may be redisplayed. In various embodiments the idle mode text string may be removed from the display when the wireless device is powered off the SIM is removed or a refresh command occurs with initialization or reset. In one embodiment any subsequent SET UP IDLE MODE TEXT command may be used to replace the current idle mode text string displayed by a previous SET UP IDLE MODE TEXT command. If the idle mode text string is provided by the SIM is NULL the existing idle mode text string is removed from the bit map area display.

For national dialing e.g. dialing a number from within North America the checkbox Dialing from North America in the dial preferences dialog box is checked. Accordingly if the dialed number is a leading followed by a 10 digit number or 1 plus 10 digits then the is dropped. Otherwise the is replaced by the International Dial Prefix. The code should never be sent to the network and Table 3 below exemplifies the conversion.

When dialing from outside North America the checkbox Dialing from North America in the dial preferences dialog box is unchecked. The is replaced by the International Dial Prefix. The code should never be sent to the network. This is illustrated in Table 4 below.

In one embodiment e.g. for GSM applications the dial preferences dialog box may support pseudo international dialing by allowing a user to automatically pre pend 1 instead of just 1 in front of the area code for example

An abbreviated dialing feature allows users to automatically pre pend a specific string for a given number of digits. For example a user may pre pend an area code before all 7 digit numbers by checking a box or an area code and the first three digits so they may dial all extensions within an organization e.g. within a private branch exchange PBX by entering only a 4 digit extension. Abbreviated dialing may be supported for 4 5 6 7 or more digit numbers by checking the respective boxes . The feature may be enabled or disabled per digit strings i.e. a user may turn off 5 digit dialing but turn on 4 digit dialing by checking the appropriate box . Each prefix field may be optionally locked. The field is not necessarily limited to a certain number of characters. Accordingly a user may dial an international number for example.

The dial pad view displays a title bar that includes information associated with the telephone carrier and voicemail among others. The dial pad view provides the virtual keypad for number entry and for pasting numbers from the clipboard as well as a mechanism for entering dual tone multiple frequency DTMF tones after a call is active. The dial pad view may be launched from any of the main telephone application views by tapping or selecting the dial pad tab on the telephone navigation bar . To support dialing DTMF tones based on words letters that requires a virtual keypad a dial pad button may be presented on the active call screen user interface.

The dial pad view may vary based on the underlying wireless carrier technology. For example although GSM and CDMA dial pads are virtually identical there may be minor differences between them. For example illustrate respective GSM dial pad views . The GSM dial pad view provides a tape roll for the voicemail icon. When there is no call in progress the GSM dial pad view displays the Wireless Carrier text .

In any of the dial pad views there is no default focus when entering the particular view. For example with reference to the GSM dial pad view a focus may be placed within a phone number when the user edits the phone number using a stylus. A user may navigate within the GSM dial pad view by using the up key on the 5 way navigation button to place the focus any of the icons present in the respective title bars . With respect to the GSM dial pad view the right left keys of the 5 way navigation button allow the user to change views if the focus is not placed within the dial string e.g. phone number being edited in the title bar . If the focus is within the dial string in the title bar a key press of the down key moves the focus out of the title bar allowing the user to use right left keys to change views. The numeric buttons however may not receive the focus. QWERTY input goes directly to a text field no cursor . The alphanumeric keyboard controls may be used to dial a phone number. The send button may be used to dial the dial string phone number entered in the title bar otherwise pressing the send button brings up the redial list . Pressing the center key brings up a dial dialog view if there is a phone number entered in the dial string otherwise it displays the last number dialed in the title bar . If the alphanumeric keyboard is locked then tapping on the Return Spacebar key on the alphanumeric keyboard will not dial the phone number in the dial string . If no number is displayed in the title bar pressing the return or space bar key in the alphanumeric keyboard may load the previous number dialed by the dial pad into the number display. This action may not dial the previous number. Pressing the return or spacebar key in the alphanumeric keyboard again should no longer dial the loaded number. Pressing the send button should dial the phone number loaded in the dial string in the title bar . The left and right navigation keys and move the insertion point within the dial string when the insertion point is visible. Pressing the down key moves the focus out from the title bar or alternately the user can press the right key at the end of the dial string to move the focus out from the title bar so that the left navigation key and the right navigation key can be used to change views. Pressing the backspace deletes entries within the dial string .

In one embodiment one touch voice mail dialing may be achieved by pressing and holding down the 1 button for a predetermined period e.g. approximately one second on the alphanumeric keyboard . This automatically dials the voice mail number of the user. This feature may be supported in any of the main phone application views invoked using the navigation bar .

During an active call the user may dial DTMF tones via the dial pad view or initiate a second call. When the first call is active the user can dial DTMF tones from the dial pad view . The call in progress may remain active and does not have to be placed on hold. The user may navigate back to the active call screen using the phone application key for example.

The default focus may be on the first item in the list of favorites items e.g. the voicemail favorites item corresponding to the first favorites button . The favorites view may comprise a single column layout and may support page scrolling mode. The up key and the down key may be employed to move the focus between the favorite buttons for example. If the focus is on the first favorites button as shown in pressing the up key places the focus on the voicemail icon identifying the favorites button if the user has a new voicemail. When the last favorites button on a page is selected pressing the down key displays the next page of favorite items with the last favorite button of the previous page at the top.

The favorites view displays the list of favorites that may be associated with application specific shortcuts links to specific universal resource locators URLs or files e.g. extensible or otherwise and or speed dials for example. For example in one embodiment the favorites items in the favorites list may be shortcuts to applications. In one embodiment the list of favorites items may comprise for example voicemail news and entertainment software downloads get ring tones Bluetooth camera and tutorial . The user may execute any of the shortcuts to applications URLs e mail messaging and speed dials among others such as voicemail news and entertainment software downloads get ring tones Bluetooth camera and tutorial by selecting and clicking the following corresponding favorites buttons voicemail button news and entertainment button software downloads button get ring tones button Bluetooth button camera button and tutorial button . Additional favorites items may be displayed in the favorites items list such as for example albums slide shows playlists world wide web web messaging MP3 player e mail search engines e.g. Google web favorite to Google smart phone portals e.g. Treo Mobile Portal Web Favorite to Palm Mobile Portal and other subsets of application specific content. Any of the items displayed in the favorites items list may be invoked by selecting the respective favorite buttons for example and may be identified by icons. The favorites items list may be located in a separate view from the telephone user interface main view .

The favorites items in the favorites items list may be carrierizable i.e. may be customized according to a specific wireless carrier . This means that a wireless carrier can specify a default set of favorites buttons . Additionally the wireless carrier may request that a given favorites button be locked such that the button cannot be modified or deleted. The favorites items list may be arranged in the single column and a user may be able to move a favorites item to a different position in the column .

The favorites view may be accessed via the keyboard . The center key of the navigation button may be pressed to execute a selected favorites button . In various embodiments this may comprise dialing a speed dial composing a pre addressed SMS or e mail launching an application or browsing a URL for example. For speed dial favorites for example a speed dial number may be dialed by pressing the send key . If there is a label but no phone number specified for a speed dial favorite pressing the send key or the center key when it is highlighted may display a dialog box that informs the user that no phone number is associated with the selected button for example.

The organize favorites dialog box also comprises a series of buttons . For example in the illustrated embodiment the organize favorites dialog box comprises a done button a new button an edit button and a delete button . The done button closes the organize favorites dialog box and displays the main favorites view .

The organize favorites dialog box is navigable via the navigation button . The primary focus may be on the done button and the secondary focus may be on the first favorite button by default e.g. the T World favorite . The favorites in the list may be reorganized by highlighting the favorite to be moved and pressing various keyboard commands such as Option Up to move it up one position or pressing Option Down to move it down one position. A favorite also may be selecting for editing by tapping on the favorite with a stylus or pressing the center button when the favorite is highlighted.

The title boxes for the respective new favorites dialog box and the edit favorites dialog box may comprise similar functionality with the exception of the delete button in the edit favorites dialog box . The type pick lists may comprise a speed dial favorite an e mail favorite an SMS messaging favorite an application favorites and a web favorite among others. The pick lists display the options for shortcut button types such as for example application changes to the UI on the screen to display UI specific for selecting applicants in addition to speed dial message e mail and or web link. A default favorite type remains speed dial. The quick keys provide respective text fields that allows the user to assign a QWERTY shortcut key associated with the favorite button. The quick keys function from the favorites view main view and dial pad views on press and hold.

The favorites buttons in the favorites view allow for quick and easy access to the user s favorite people applications or web sites. The user may create multiple different new types of favorites within the new favorites view or may edit existing favorites within the edit favorites view . In one embodiment for example the user may create five different types of favorites buttons for 1 frequently called numbers speed dial 2 favorite applications application 3 frequently messaged numbers message 4 frequently emailed contacts e mail and or 5 favorite web sites web link . Each of these different types of favorites are described below.

Each of the quick keys in the various edit favorites views described above allow for quick and easy access to favorite contacts applications or web sites from within any of the tabs on the navigation bar such e.g. the dial pad tab the favorites tab the main telephone application tab the contacts tab and the call log tab . To use the quick keys the user may press and hold the key assigned to a specific favorite button for example.

The contacts view displays the contacts list comprising information for lookup and dialing as well as displaying an inventory of incoming and outgoing calls. In the contacts view the user may perform certain functionalities to see everyone in their contacts list view edit an individual contact entry and call or SMS someone in the contacts list . The contacts view provides an interface for traditional address book tasks as well as enhanced dial from the address book direct dialing.

The contacts view functions in a manner similar to an address book application. This may include all address book contact entry viewing editing and managing. The contacts view functionality may be integrated such that a user may navigate to the contacts view to display the contacts list user interface without launching an additional application e.g. without launching a separate contacts application . This feature may reduce screen flicker and enhance the user experience with the contacts view user interface. Further this may enable the user to return to the main telephone application of the wireless device after editing or adding a new contact entry to the contacts list . Several components of contacts integration in the contacts view may comprise for example the integration of the contacts list into the contacts view the integration of commonly used dialogs New Edit Contact Contact Details into the contacts view so that selecting the done button returns the user to the contacts view rather than the contacts application and the integration of all other dialogs that may be currently accessed from the contacts list in the contacts view .

The contacts list may be sorted in accordance with various criteria based on user preference. Examples of sorting criteria may comprise 1 Last Name First Name and 2 Company Last Name. The names of the contacts records in the contacts list may be displayed on their own line. If the sorting option is Last Name First Name the name is displayed i.e. Smith Bob . If the sorting option is Company Last Name the name is displayed no comma i.e. Palm Smith .

A note icon is displayed in the contacts view if there is a note associated with the contact entry currently displayed. In one embodiment the note icon may be displayed to the left of the scroll bar right justified and on the same line as the name of the contacts entry . The note icon does not necessarily change size or boldness when different fonts are selected. All telephony relevant numbers may be displayed in the main contacts view as the contacts list . The numbers are each displayed on their own line to form a list.

When the contacts view is initially invoked the default focus is on the first phone number . When the contacts view tab is selected all of the entries in the address book are displayed and are sorted by the sort option provided in the preferences. The first phone number of the first entry on the page is automatically highlighted. If no name is provided for an entry the text Unnamed is displayed for the name field.

Some menu items may perform functions on a highlighted contact in the contacts list . These functions work whether the highlight is on the name portion of the contact entry or any of the numbers . If the highlight is on any part of the contact entry then that contact is considered the highlighted contact.

The text entered in the title bar is filtered by a multi filter. When the first letter is entered all matches are displayed and all non matches are filtered out. With every subsequent letter entered all non matches are filtered out. A space character may be used as a character to accommodate names with spaces. In these situations the space character is ignored for matching purposes. All matches for multiple criteria are displayed as previously described. When a character is deleted from the lookup field the filter expands back out to the search results for the new string. When the user backspaces back to a blank lookup field all records are displayed e.g. the contacts view returns to the same state as when it was first entered . The lookup logic searches for hits based on the displayed fields which sometimes may be changed if there are blank fields. For example if a record has blank name fields and a company entry the lookup logic may generate a match on the company name even if the wireless device is in sort by name mode.

For navigation purposes the default focus may be located on the Last Name field for example. The new edit contact view also displays a series of buttons . The done button accepts the information entered in the fields . The details button displays any additional information available in any of the fields . The page button scrolls one contact edit page at a time. The plus button may be used to add additional phone address email or custom fields. The scroll arrows allow navigation between the fields in the new edit contact view and or the pop up menu options. Names can be applied to more than one field for example a contact can have more than one work phone number.

As previously discussed the content area contains a scroll list of names or phone numbers and a time or date of a call. The call type icon indicates what kind of call it was e.g. incoming outgoing or missed. The call type icon may be displayed to the left of the name or number field . Incoming calls may be depicted with a right arrow outgoing calls may be depicted with a left arrow and missed and unanswered calls may be depicted with a grayed out version of the appropriate arrow e.g. either the incoming right arrow or the outgoing left arrow .

When a name match is made the respective name is displayed in the list view . A name match may be attempted against both the favorites and contacts list databases. When a name is not made the name of the caller may be supplied by the network carrier and may be displayed in the list view . Some carriers display the name and some may display both the name and number of the caller. If the carrier does not supply the name then the number may be displayed in the list view. A Blocked Caller ID message may be displayed in the list view if the caller ID was unavailable because the incoming caller ID was blocked. Similarly a Restricted Caller ID message may be displayed in the list view when the caller ID was unavailable because it was restricted.

The time of the call is displayed if the call occurred on the same day as the current date. Otherwise the only the date of the call is displayed instead of the time. A small a after the time designates AM and a small p after the time designates PM if the time format is selected as a twelve hour format.

One call record is always selected. The first record may be selected when the call log view is entered. If the user scrolls past the first page the first record on the subsequent page is selected. Pen down on a line selects that line and displays the dial dialog with that number in it.

The navigation in the call log view is similar to the navigation in the contacts view previously discussed. The up key and the down key moves the user through the call log list view . The right key and the left key changes the current view to the dial pad view and the contacts view respectively.

Actions within the call log view may be controlled via the keyboard . The send key dials the number which has the focus if that number may be dialed e.g. there is caller ID information available. If the number cannot be dialed an audible beep is played. Pressing the center button brings up the dial dialog box that allows the user to dial or SMS to the highlighted phone number.

A record menu enables the user to record calls from the call log list view . Accordingly the user may add a contact through the record menu which appears only whenever a callback number is available and the highlighted selected call log item in the call log list does not have a name match in the contacts database. This may also occur even if a name match is possible due to an entry in the favorites speed dial database. When selected a dialog is displayed that asks whether the user would like to create a new contact or add to an existing one. The title of the dialog is the phone number that has focus.

A totals menu may be provided in the record menu to display the usage since the last reset the total minutes usage on the home network the total roaming minutes usage the total minutes usage i.e. home network usage plus roaming usage kilobytes sent kilobytes received and total kilobytes i.e. kilobytes sent plus kilobytes received . The totals menu option and duration in the call log details dialog may be hidden for carriers that specify that these items should be hidden.

Prepend dialing is supported as previously discussed with respect to the contact list. When a call back number is available with a call log record tapping on the highlighted item or pressing the center key will generate the dial dialog box . Focus is on the dial button by default. Pressing the send key automatically initiates the call. When the caller ID is not available with the call log record tapping on the highlighted item or pressing the send or the center key will do nothing. Because the text messaging to landline numbers are being increasingly deployed by carriers a message button may be provided in the dial dialog box for any phone number whether or not it has a Mobile label.

A series of buttons are provided to select various functions. For example a done button a dial button and a copy phone number may be provided at the bottom of the call details view screen. The dial button may be tapped to dial the listed phone number in the number field. The dial button does not appear if the phone number was not received via caller ID. The copy phone number button cause the phone number to be copied to the copied to the clipboard. The copy phone number button does not appear if the phone number was not received via caller ID.

The computing system generally may comprise various physical or logical elements implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. In various embodiments the physical or logical elements may be connected by one or more communications media. Communications media generally may comprise any medium capable of carrying information signals. For example communication media may comprise wired communication media wireless communication media or a combination of both as desired for a given implementation.

As shown the computing system may comprise a display . The display may be implemented using any type of visual interface such as an LCD. As shown the display may comprise a plurality of display regions arranged to implement a panoramic display as described above. In some embodiments the display may have an aspect ratio of 1 1 with a resolution of 320 320 480 480 and so forth. In other embodiments the display may have an aspect ratio of 3 2 with a resolution of 480 320 or other aspect ratio and or resolution. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown the telephone user interface functionality may be implemented by a memory . In various embodiments the memory may comprise any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data including both volatile and non volatile memory. For example memory may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDR RAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory e.g. ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory disk memory e.g. floppy disk hard drive optical disk magnetic disk or card e.g. magnetic card optical card or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The computing system may comprise a processor such as a central processing unit CPU . In various embodiments the processor may be implemented as a general purpose processor a chip multiprocessor CMP a dedicated processor an embedded processor a digital signal processor DSP a network processor a media processor an input output I O processor a media access control MAC processor a radio baseband processor a co processor a microprocessor such as a complex instruction set computer CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor and or a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or other processing device. The processor also may be implemented by a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD and so forth.

In various embodiments the processor may be arranged to run an operating system OS and various mobile applications. Examples of an OS include for example a Microsoft Windows OS a Palm OS and any other proprietary or open source OS. Examples of mobile applications include for example a telephone application a camera e.g. digital camera video camera application a browser application a multimedia player application a gaming application a messaging application e.g. e mail short message multimedia a viewer application and so forth.

In various embodiments the processor may be arranged to receive information such as media source content through a communications interface . The communications interface may comprises any suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software that is capable of coupling the computing system to one or more networks and or network devices. The communications interface may be arranged to operate with any suitable technique for controlling information signals using a desired set of communications protocols services or operating procedures. The communications interface may include the appropriate physical connectors to connect with a corresponding communications medium.

In various embodiments the communications interface may comprise one or more interfaces such as for example a wireless communications interface a wired communications interface a network interface a transmit interface a receive interface a media interface a system interface a component interface a switching interface a chip interface a controller and so forth. When implemented by a wireless device or within wireless system for example the computing system may include a wireless interface comprising one or more antennas transmitters receivers transceivers amplifiers filters control logic and so forth.

In various embodiments the processor may be configured to execute logic stored in the memory and present the navigation bar on the display . As previously discussed the navigation bar comprises multiple selectable tabs . The processor may be configured to detect an input corresponding to a selection of any one of the multiple selectable tabs and present a user interface view e.g. the dial pad views the favorites view the main telephone application view the contacts view and or the call log view associated with any one of the multiple tabs on the display when the input is detected. The processor is to process navigation input to navigate horizontally e.g. left or right across the navigation bar . The processor is to execute an application associated with the selected user interface view. In addition the processor is to process input from the navigation button and the processor is to detect an input from the navigation button to navigate horizontally or vertically within the user interface view currently displayed on the display . The processor is to process the input corresponding to detecting a selection of any one of the multiple tabs and switch to a newly selected user interface view from within a currently displayed user interface view. As previously discussed the navigation bar comprises any one of a dial pad view tab a favorites tab a main telephone application tab a contacts tab and a call log tab . The processor is to execute any one of a dial pad application a favorites application a main telephone application a contacts application and a call log application in response to a selection of a corresponding dial pad view tab favorites tab main telephone application tab contacts tab and call log tab .

In various other embodiments the processor processes the navigation input to navigate horizontally e.g. left or right across the navigation bar . The processor executes an application associated with the selected user interface view. In addition the processor processes input from the navigation button detects an input from the navigation button and navigates horizontally or vertically within the user interface view currently displayed on the display . The processor processes the input corresponding to a selection of any one of the multiple tabs and switches to a newly selected user interface view from within a currently displayed user interface view. As previously discussed the navigation bar comprises any one of a dial pad view tab a favorites tab a main telephone application tab a contacts tab and a call log tab . The processor executes any one of a dial pad application a favorites application a main telephone application a contacts application and a call log application in response to detecting a selection of a corresponding dial pad view tab favorites tab main telephone application tab contacts tab and call log tab .

In various implementations the described embodiments may communicate over wireless shared media in accordance with a number of wireless protocols. Examples of wireless protocols may include various wireless local area network WLAN protocols including the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 and so forth. Other examples of wireless protocols may include various wireless wide area network WWAN protocols such as GSM cellular radiotelephone system protocols with GPRS CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems with 1xRTT EDGE systems EV DO systems EV DV systems HSDPA systems and so forth. Further examples of wireless protocols may include wireless personal area network PAN protocols such as an Infrared protocol a protocol from the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Yet another example of wireless protocols may include near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices. Other suitable protocols may include Ultra Wide Band UWB Digital Office DO Digital Home Trusted Platform Module TPM ZigBee and so forth.

In various implementations the described embodiments may comprise part of a cellular communication system. Examples of cellular communication systems may include CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems GSM cellular radiotelephone systems North American Digital Cellular NADC cellular radiotelephone systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Extended TDMA E TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS cellular radiotelephone systems third generation 3G systems such as WCDMA CDMA 2000 UMTS cellular radiotelephone systems compliant with the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and so forth.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language machine code and so forth.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

