---

title: Numerical modeling of nonlinear ship-wave interactions
abstract: The hydrodynamics of a seagoing vessel are numerically modeled through the present invention's new calculative methodology, which uniquely combines vessel boundary characteristics and pseudo-spectral environmental characteristics. Solutions are obtained through mutual transformations between the vessel boundary's irregular grid and the environment's regular pseudo-spectral grid. The pressure at the vessel boundary, an important component of the vessel boundary itself, can be determined via either (i) finite element analysis (which has a Cartesian framework) or (ii) the present invention's new vessel normal vector analysis (which has a non-Cartesian framework); the latter approach avoids the singularity problem that generally besets hydrodynamics-related mathematics. Typical inventive practice implements a computer processing unit and succeeds in finding superior solutions in shorter CPU durations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07734449&OS=07734449&RS=07734449
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07734449
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060901
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 778 166 filed 28 Feb. 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Numerical Modeling of Nonlinear Interactions between Ships and Surface Gravity Waves joint inventors Ray Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to interactions between marine vessels e.g. steadily moving ships and environmental waves more particularly to methodologies for modeling such interactions.

The past few decades have seen great efforts toward the development of ship motion models. Generally the ship motion models have been developed via algorithms or formulae based on either linear theory e.g. Green function or weakly nonlinear theory. Two major problems hinder the application of these conventional models viz. i their inability to model strongly nonlinear interactions e.g. wherein the nonlinear interactions are comparable to or stronger than the linear variations among surface waves and among surface waves and ship bodies ii the computationally expensive nature of the backbone algorithms particularly in solving global wave like solutions. Therefore the conventional models are limited to the mild condition applications that is to say the conventional models are significantly less than ideal and may even be impossible for solving extreme problems such as storm surges strong incident waves and high speed ships. In addition due to computational costs the conventional models tend to be less likely than desired to meet real time or near real time application requirements.

Lord Kelvin first developed a mathematical description of wave pattern due to a point pressure distribution the classical V shaped wave pattern that bears his name see W. Thompson On Ship Waves Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. 1887 Reprint 1891 in 3 450 500 MacMillan London W. Thompson On the Waves Produced by a Single Impulse in Water of Any Depth or in a Dispersive Medium 42 80 85 1887.

Michell developed a thin ship theory for the wave resistance of a ship see J. H. Michell The Wave Resistance of a Ship 45 106 23 1898.

Havelock extended Michell s thin ship theory to predict the wave pattern about the ship see T. H. Havelock The Propagation of Groups of Waves in Dispersive Media with Application to Waves on Water Produced by a Traveling Disturbance 81 398 430 1908 T. H. Havelock Wave Patterns and Wave Resistance 76 430 46 1934 .

Tuck developed slender body theory for a ship and the wave field near the ship. See E. O. Tuck A Systematic Asymptotic Expansion Procedure for Slender Ships 8 1 15 23 1964 E. O. Tuck On Line Distributions of Kelvin Sources 8 2 45 52 1964.

Two families of linearized free surface solutions satisfying the exact body boundary condition have been developed viz. the Neumann Kelvin methods and Dawson the methods. The Neuman Kelvin methods linearize the free surface flow about the free stream velocity. The Dawson methods linearize the problem about the double body flow.

The Havelock singularity solution of the Neumann Kelvin formulation of the ship wave problem reduces the problem to the solution of an integral equation on the body surface by using a Green function that satisfies explicitly the Laplace equation and the linearized free surface condition. Doctors together with Beck and Scragg have developed Havelock Green function based methods for computing the solution of the Kelvin wake problem see L. J. Doctors and R. F. Beck Numerical Aspects of the Neumann Kelvin Problem 31 1 13 1987 L. J. Doctors and R. F. Beck Convergence Properties of the Neumann Kelvin Problem for a Submerged Body 31 227 34 1987 A. M. Reed J. G. Telste and C. A. Scragg Analysis of Transom Stern Flows 18 Ann Arbor Mich. pp 207 19 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1990.

Doctors Beck and Scragg solve the full Neumann Kelvin problem for the strengths of the singularities. Telste See A. M. Reed J. G. Telste and C. A. Scragg Analysis Of Transom Stern Flows 18 Ann Arbor Mich. pp 207 19 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1990 J. Telste and A. M. Reed Calculation of Transom Stern Flows 6 Iowa City Iowa pp 79 92 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1993 employs Rankine singularities to solve the Neumann Kelvin problem which necessitates distributing Rankine singularities on the free surface as well as on the hull surface.

Dawson methods See C. W. Dawson A Practical Computer Method for Solving Ship Wave Problems 2 Berkeley Calif. pp 30 38 Berkeley Calif. Univ. Calif. Berkeley 1977 solve for the Kelvin wake in a two stage process. The first step involves the solution of a double body problem where the ship s hull is reflected in the free surface and the flow is predicted as though the body and its reflected image are submerged infinitely deep in the fluid. The second stage of the solution involves solving a free surface problem that is linearized around the double body solution. This second solution involves singularities on the free surface as well as on the body. Compared to the Havelock Green function based methods the Dawson methods trade a much simpler Green function for a much larger computational domain with many more unknowns.

Cheng 1989 Kim et al. 1989 Sclavounos Nakos 1988 and Nakos Sclavounos 1990 have developed Dawson methods for solving the Kelvin wake problem using Rankine sources. See B. H. Cheng Computations of 3D Transom Stern Flows 5 Washington D.C. pp 581 92 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1989 Y H Kim S. H. Kim and T. Lucas Advanced Panel Method for Ship Wave Inviscid Flow Theory SWIFT David Taylor Research Center DTRC now NSWCCD Ship Hydromechanics Department R D Report DTRC 89 029 West Bethesda Md. 66 pp 1989 P. D. Sclavounos and D. E. Nakos Stability Analysis of Panel Methods for Free Surface Flows with Forward Speed 17 Den Haag Netherlands 1988 D. Nakos and P. D. Sclavounos Ship Motions by a Three Dimensional Rankine Panel Method 18 pp 21 41 Ann Arbor Mich. 1990.

Scragg Talcott 1990 and Scragg 1999 have developed a Havelock Dawson approach that employs Rankine singularities on the hull and Havelock singularities on the free surface in a limited region of the undisturbed free surface near the body. See C. A. Scragg. and J. C. Talcott. Numerical Solution of the Dawson Free Surface Problem Using Havelock Singularities 18 Ann Arbor Mich. pp 259 71 Washington D.C. National Academy Press 1990 C. A. Scragg On the Use of Free Surface Distributions of Havelock Singularities 14 Port Huron Mich. 4 pp Ann Arbor Mich. Univ. Mich. Dep. Naval Arch. Mar. Eng. 1999. The Havelock Dawson method allows one to panel only a limited region of the free surface because the singularities satisfy both the linearized free surface and the radiation boundary conditions resulting in a self limiting distribution of singularities on the free surface. The Havelock Dawson approach is computationally very efficient.

Most recently fully nonlinear free surface flow solutions have been developed based on both potential flow and on RANS formulations. Raven 1996 1998 Subramani 2000 and Wyatt 2000 have published nonlinear potential flow methods for predicting the wave field around ships. See D. C. Wyatt Development and Assessment of a Nonlinear Wave Prediction Methodology for Surface Vessels 44 96 107 2000 A. K. Subramani Computations of Highly Nonlinear Free Surface Flows with Applications to Arbitrary and Complex Hull Forms PhD thesis Dep. Naval Arch. Mar. Eng. Univ. Mich. Ann Arbor Mich. 127 pp 2000 H. C. Raven A Wageningen Netherlands Marin 220 pp 1996 H. C. Raven Inviscid Calculations of Ship Wave Making Capabilities Limitations and Prospects 22 Washington D.C. pp 738 54 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1998.

All three authors in the preceding paragraph employ Rankine singularities and desingularize the free surface. Several authors have published the results from free surface RANS codes that can solve the steady ship wave problem. See A. Arabshahi M. Beddhu W. Briley J. Chen A. Gaither et al. A Perspective on Naval Hydrodynamic Flow Simulations Proceedings of the 22nd Symposium on Naval Hydrodynamics Washington D.C. pp 920 34 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1998 see also R. Wilson E. Paterson and F. Stern Unsteady RANS CFD Method for Naval Combatants in Waves Proceedings of the 22nd Symposium on. Naval Hydrodynamics Washington D.C. pp 532 49 Washington D.C. Natl. Acad. Press 1998.

These codes solve the field equations using a finite volume or finite difference scheme. Each satisfies the full nonlinear free surface boundary condition by employing some type of upstream differencing scheme on the free surface. The fact that the fluid volume must be re gridded to track the nonlinear free surface deformation adds a significant complication to the iteration scheme and adds significantly to the computation time. Solutions using nonlinear free surface RANS codes such as these can take 40 80 hours or more to compute on a state of the art multiprocessor super computer.

In parallel with the above studies effort has recently been focused on interactions between ship waves and ambient waves because they cannot be well described by linear superposition See e.g. M. St. Denis and W. J. Pierson On the Motions of Ships in Confused Seas Vol. 61 1953 Y. Liu D. G. Dommermuth and D. K. P. Yue A high order spectral method for nonlinear wave body interactions 245 115 136 1992 first used a high order spectral method to study nonlinear interactions among surface waves and ship. Their model was developed originally by Dommermuth and Yue See D. G. Dommermuth and D. K. P. Yue Numerical Simulations Of Nonlinear Axisymmetric Flows With A Free Surface 209 57 1987 to study nonlinear gravity wave interactions based on the third order Zakharov equation. See R. Q. Lin and W. Perrie A New Coastal Wave Model Part III Nonlinear Wave Wave Interaction for Wave Spectral Evolution 27 1813 26 1997 D. R. Crawford B. M. Lake P. G. Saffman and H. C. Yuen Stability of Weakly Nonlinear Deep Water Waves in Two and Three Dimensions 105 177 191 1982.

However the Zakharov Equation and the Hasselmann Equation See S. Hasselmann and K. Hasselmann A Symmetrical Method of Computing the Nonlinear Transfer in a Gravity Wave Spectrum Vol. 52 138 pp 1981 which is similar to the Zakharov equation are both derived using perturbation methods which implies that the equations are not appropriate for problems with large wave steepness. For example the maximum wave steepness for the Zakharov equation is 0.3 with a 10 percent error level. With the similar error the Hasselmann equation only allows wave steepness up to 0.06 see R. Q. Lin and W. Perrie A New Coastal Wave Model Part III Nonlinear Wave Wave Interaction for Wave Spectral Evolution 27 1813 26 1997.

In addition the model of Liu et al. 1992 can only solve interactions between a cylinder and surface waves while ships have much more complicated geometries. The solutions of Liu et al. can be extended to more complicated problems by applying conformal mappings but this imposes constraints on the flow properties and on the ship geometries. In order to resolve arbitrary ship shapes boundary element methods are introduced in modeling finite amplitude ship wave interactions. See e.g. W. M. Lin and D. K. P. Yue Numerical Solution for Large Amplitude Ship Motions in Time Domain 18 U. Michigan Ann Arbor Mich. 1990 W. M. Lin M. J. Meinhold N. Salvesen and D. K. P. Yue Large Amplitude Motions and Wave Load for Ship Design 20 U. California Santa Barbara Calif. 1994 Lin and Yue 1990 Liu et al. 1992 1994 M. Xue Three Dimensional Fully Nonlinear Simulations of Waves and Wave Body Interactions Ph.D. Thesis Dept Ocean Engineering MIT 1997 M. Xue H. X Y. Liu and D. K. P. Yue Computations of Full Nonlinear Three Dimensional Wave Wave and Wave Body Interactions. Part I. Dynamics of Steep Three Dimensional Waves 438 11 39. 2001 Xue 1997 Xue et al 2000 Y. Liu M. Xue and D. K. P Yue Computations of Fully Nonlinear Three Dimensional Wave Wave Wave Body Interactions Part 2 Nonlinear Waves and Forces 438 41 66 2000.

Though the boundary element method and other local methods is very good for resolving flow near the boundaries of arbitrary ships it is not very efficient in resolving the waves away from the ship. This problem can be very serious when ambient waves are present. In this case fine scale grids are necessary to resolve small scale waves and wave wave interactions. Insufficient resolution can easily result in numerical instabilities. On the other hand spectral methods can take advantage of the wave like motions at the surface away from the ship. In particular by selecting appropriate base wave functions for spectral expansion one can easily model surface waves and wave wave interactions with high computational efficiency. Furthermore one can model wave breaking mechanisms that are important in studying finite amplitude wave wave interactions. Because of these numerical advantages ship hydrodynamics models based on spectral methods have been developed. For example Liu et al. 1992 developed a spectral model to study interaction between incident waves and a cylinder an idealized ship .

However the spectral method is not very efficient in solving for the local flow structures near the ship. For example a very fine ship will generate very small scale flow near the ship. Resolving this small scale flow with spectral methods requires a very high truncation order not necessary for the flow away from ship. In addition traditional periodic boundary conditions used in modeling wave wave interactions See e.g. R. Q Lin and W. Kuang Nonlinear Wave Wave Interactions of Finite Amplitude Gravity Wave 8 109 116 2004 are not applicable to ship wave interaction problems. An example is the case of a ship moving in calm water where there are no waves ahead of the ship but waves extend behind the ship to infinity where there can be no periodic far field boundary conditions.

In ship wave hydrodynamics the flow is assumed to be an incompressible inviscid potential flow. Therefore singularities occur in solving flow at the ship boundary particularly at bow and stern points. Resolving the flow near the ends of the ship is one of the important problems in ship hydrodynamics and is particularly critical for correct evaluation of the pressure on a moving ship. In the past researchers developed various approximations and techniques to avoid the singularities. As previously mentioned herein Michell 1898 developed thin ship theory which was further refined by Havelock 1908 1934 . Tuck 1964 developed slender theory for a ship and the wave field near the ship. Similar methods were developed in linear and nonlinear studies using the exact ship boundary condition e.g. Doctors Beck 1987 Scragg Reed et al. 1990 Telste Reed et al. 1990 Telste Reed 1993 and Liu et al. 2000 . These approaches to solving the velocity potential at the ship boundary depend on certain cut off domains e.g. truncation in wave number space of integrals for the wave components of the potential or truncation of the Fourier series of the spectral representation . In addition computations with arbitrary ship geometries can be very expensive because high numerical resolution is required to avoid numerical errors and instabilities.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a robust numerical model that can be used to study nonlinear interactions between steadily moving ships and environmental waves.

Another object of the present invention is to provide such a model that is sufficiently flexible for arbitrary single hull and multi hull ships.

A further object of the present invention is to provide such a model that is sufficiently flexible for extreme environmental conditions.

It is a another object of the present invention to provide such a model that is computationally efficient.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide such a model that is capable of real time or near real time applications.

The present invention provides a pseudo spectral model for nonlinear ship surface wave interactions. The algorithm used in the inventive model represents a combination including spectral and boundary element methods. The boundary element method is used to translate physical quantities between the non uniform ship surface and the regular grid of the spectral representation the spectral method is used throughout the remainder of the fluid domain. All possible wave wave interactions are included in the inventive model up to N wave interactions for the truncation order N of the spectral expansions . The instant disclosure focuses on the mathematical theory and numerical method of the inventive model and presents some numerical results for steady Kelvin waves in calm water. The nonlinear bow waves at high Froude numbers from the inventive pseudo spectral model are much closer to the experimental results than those from linear ship wave models.

The present inventors results demonstrate that the present invention s pseudo spectral model is significantly faster than previous ship wave models with the same resolution the CPU time of the pseudo spectral model is orders of magnitude less than those of previous models. For instance convergence speed of the inventive model is ANLogN instead of BN where N is the number of unknowns. Note that the N for the traditional boundary element method may be significantly larger than the N for the inventive pseudo spectral method for the same quality solution. A and B are CPU time requirements in each time step for the inventive model and for other models respectively.

To solve the problems of the existing ship motion models the present inventors started by modeling ship motions from the fundamental equations derived from the first principles. According to this approach the present inventors introduced no approximation on the nonlinearity in their model thereby ensuring that their ensuing model shall be applicable to any ship motion studies including those of extreme environment where nonlinear interaction is the strongest . In furtherance of numerical stability and efficiency the present inventors introduced a new approach on solving pressure on the ship boundaries this new approach ensuring that their new model can work with arbitrary ship boundaries especially those causing mathematical stiffness. In addition the present inventors created an interpolation algorithm to map between the localized ship grid systems and the global pseudo spectral grid systems.

With their inventions the present inventors avail themselves of the combined numerical advantages of pseudo spectral algorithms for global surface waves and finite difference finite element algorithms for local ship boundaries . The combination of these two types of algorithms can dramatically reduce computational costs making the real time or near real time applications feasible. The present invention as typically practiced features inter alia a inclusion of full nonlinear interactions in the inventive model b combination of pseudo spectral algorithms and finite difference finite element algorithms and c evaluation of pressure correction on the ship boundaries. Inventive feature a promotes the capability of the inventive model of being applied to the studies of arbitrary ship motions in any environment. Inventive features b and c promote the numerical stability and efficiency of the inventive model such attributes being necessary for real time or near real time applications.

One of the main problems in modeling ship wave hydrodynamics is solving for the forcing pressure at the ship boundary. With an arbitrary ship singularities occur in evaluating the velocity potential and the velocities on the hull. Inaccuracies in the evaluation of the singular terms in the velocity potential result in discretization errors numerical errors and excessive computational costs. The present invention uses a pseudo spectral method to solve the velocity potential at the ship boundary in Cartesian coordinates however like other methods such as disclosed by Tuck 1964 Doctors Beck 1987 Scragg Reed et al. 1990 Telste Reed et al. 1990 Telste Reed 1993 and Liu et al. 2000 the present invention s more traditional approach to solving the velocity potential at the ship boundary depends on certain cut off domains e.g. truncation in wave number space of integrals for the wave components of the potential or truncation of the Fourier series of the spectral representation .

As alternative to their new but more traditional approach the present inventors disclose herein a new and totally untraditional approach to evaluating the pressure on a ship evaluating the pressure in the ship normal vector coordinate system. The present invention s more traditional approach evaluates the pressure velocity potential at the ship boundary in a Cartesian coordinate system in contrast the present invention s entirely untraditional approach evaluates the pressure velocity potential at the ship boundary in a non Cartesian ship normal vector coordinate system. The main advantage of the latter non Cartesian inventive approach is that p is a smooth function in the ship normal vector coordinate system enabling the inventive practitioner to obtain accurate results very efficiently e.g. in much less CPU time without encountering numerical difficulties arising from possible singularities.

According to the present invention s ship wave numerical model a pseudo spectral method and a boundary element representation of the ship are combined to solve for the velocity potential. To improve numerical efficiency and accuracy in modeling ship hydrodynamic problems a central issue is to resolve appropriately the velocity potential near ship boundaries. The present invention s alternative non Cartesian approach is to solve the flow near the ship boundary in a coordinate system different from the normal Cartesian coordinate in which the far field flow is well defined. The special coordinate system is defined with the ship boundary normal vectors in which the pressure is a smooth function. The present invention thereby avoids the difficulties associated with the singularities in the velocity potential.

Spectral e.g. pseudo spectral method is capable of studying the strong nonlinear interactions between a ship body and the environment e.g. the incident waves . For instance spectral method can be used to study winter storms or hurricanes that impact motions of a ship. However spectral method is incapable of studying the complicated ship body itself. In contrast finite element method also known as finite different method or panel method is capable of studying the complicated ship body but is incapable of studying the strong nonlinear interactions between a ship body and the environment e.g. the incident waves . The present invention as frequently practiced succeeds in using both spectral method and finite element method to holistically model the hydrodynamics of the seagoing ship as it interacts with its environment. The term ship as used herein in relation to practice of the present invention broadly refers to any marine or water going e.g. sea going or ocean going vessel since inventive principles are broadly applicable to any such vessel.

According to typical inventive practice a numerical method for modeling hydrodynamics of a ship and water waves comprises a determining a boundary described by a ship b determining a nonlinear interaction between the ship and incident waves and c mutually transforming information between the boundary and the nonlinear interaction. The determination of the nonlinear interaction includes using spectral method a known genre of mathematical technique. More specifically usually preferred inventive practice provides for use of pseudo spectral method a known type of spectral method for nonlinear interaction determination. The ship boundary is characterized by irregular body points on the ship. The nonlinear interaction is characterized by regular pseudo spectral collocation points. The mutual transformation of information includes mutually transforming grid related information between the irregular body points and the regular pseudo spectral collocation points. As the present invention is frequently practiced the present invention s unique mutual transformation methodology succeeds in transferring information between the ship s body and the ship s environment in each time step. According to typical inventive practice the determination of the ship boundary includes determination of the pressure at the ship boundary. According to some inventive embodiments the determination of the pressure is contextualized in a Cartesian coordinate system and includes use of finite element method. According to other inventive embodiments the determination of the pressure is contextualized in a ship normal vector coordinate system the present invention s unique form of a non Cartesian coordinate system.

The present invention s novel non Cartesian approach to pressure determination is both accurate and efficient as it eliminates unwanted mathematical singularities that are associated with all other approaches to pressure determination. Every other pressure determination methodology requires truncation of at least one singularity in contrast the inventive non Cartesian pressure determination methodology avoids any such artificial effect on its solutions. The present invention s ship normal vector coordinate system mode of determination of pressure includes a establishing a pressure dichotomy and b obtaining the ship present pressure. The pressure dichotomy is of a ship absent pressure kind and a ship present pressure kind. The ship absence pressure is characterized by absence of the ship the ship present pressure kind is characterized by presence of the ship. The ship absent pressure kind includes a ship absent pressure pand a ship absent modified pressure p the ship present pressure kind includes a ship present pressure p and a ship present pressure correction p. The ship present pressure p is the pressure being solved for. The ship present pressure p is obtained based on the ship absent pressure pand the ship present pressure correction p. The ship present pressure p is defined as the sum of the ship absent pressure pand the ship present pressure correction p. The ship absent pressure pis related to the ship absent modified pressure p . The ship present pressure p is related to the ship present pressure correction p. According to typical inventive practice the ship absent pressure pis related to said ship absent modified pressure p in accordance with the equation

Aspects of the present invention are disclosed in the following two papers incorporated herein by reference of which the present inventors are co authors Ray Qing Lin Weijia Kuang and Arthur M. Reed Numerical Modeling of Nonlinear Interactions between Ships and Surface Gravity Waves Part 1 Ship Waves in Calm Water Journal of Ship Research Volume 49 Number 1 March 2005 pages 1 11 Ray Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang Nonlinear Ship Wave Interaction Model Part 2 Ship Boundary Condition Journal of Ship Research Volume 50 Number 2 June 2006 pages 181 186.

Also incorporated herein by reference are the following pertinent papers Ray Qing Lin and Weijia Kuang Nonlinear Waves of a Steadily Moving Ship in Environmental Waves Volume 8 January 2004 pages 109 116 Ray Qing Lin and Weijai Kuang A Finite Amplitude Steady Ship Motion Model Fukuoka Japan 8 13 Jul. 2002 The National Academies Press Washington D.C. 2003 pages 322 332 Ray Qing Lin and Will Perrie A New Coastal Wave Model Part III Nonlinear Wave Wave Interaction American Meteorological Society Volume 27 September 1997 pages 1813 1826.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventors disclose herein their development of their pseudo spectral ship wave interaction model which as typically embodied is characterized by a mixed algorithm that affords advantages of both spectral method and boundary element method. The mathematical foundation of the inventive model and the results of ship moving in calm water are presented hereinbelow. The present invention s basic equations and boundary conditions are summarized in the first section entitled Mathematical Model. The present invention s numerical methods are described in the second section entitled Numerical Method. The present invention s results for steady motion of a ship in calm water are given in the third section entitled Benchmark Results which is followed by more general discussion regarding the present invention in the fourth section entitled Concluding Remarks. 

The present invention solves the wave ship interaction problem by defining physical quantities in a reference frame moving translating with the ship such reference frame hereinafter referred to as the moving reference frame . The present invention assumes that the fluid is incompressible. The ship moves with a given velocity u. The incompressibility is described by

The dynamic and kinematic boundary conditions at the free surface z where is the free surface elevation are

Two more boundary conditions are required when a ship is included in the model. One is the impenetrability boundary condition on the ship boundary 0 5 where circumflex over n is the unit vector of the ship boundary. The other boundary condition is the radiation boundary condition to insure that the waves generated by the ship are left behind the ship and do not radiate ahead of the ship. It is implemented as open boundary conditions away from the ship the far field . For the computational application the far field boundary conditions are defined at a finite distance from the ship instead of the asymptotic limit x 

where b is the forward boundary c are the side and aft boundaries and are the velocity potential and the surface elevation of the environmental waves and are the corresponding quantities of other waves associated with the ship e.g. ship generated waves and the waves arising from ship environmental wave interactions The over bar means the spatial average of the quantities. We should point out that the boundary conditions are consistent with mass conservation. In calm water and vanish.

We consider again a ship moving in the water of finite depth H z with horizontal velocity u. In the reference frame moving with uan incompressible potential flow is described by the following equations in the domain H z 

In the above equations g is the gravitational acceleration p is the modified pressure is the horizontal gradient and is the artificial dissipation coefficient. The artificial dissipation serves two purposes viz. 1 to model very small fluid viscosity and wave breaking mechanisms and 2 to speed up numerical convergence without distorting large scale flow structures in which we are interested. The modified pressure defined in 2 and the pressure pdefined in a earth fixed reference frame is

In addition to above equations the potential shall also satisfy the impenetrable boundary conditions on the solid surfaces namely on the flat bottom that is

In general the computational domain is small compared to the entire domain of fluid with its surface waves. In our model the computational domain is bounded by a forward boundary the side and the aft boundaries . Therefore additional boundary conditions are needed on these boundaries to approximate the far field radiation condition as x . On the forward boundary the velocity potential and the surface elevation should be equivalent to those of the incident waves. Thus in a reference frame moving with the ship and for x 6.1 where the subscript e denotes the quantities for the incident waves. It should be pointed out that and vanish in calm water. On the other boundaries we impose no constraint on the flow. However since the fluid is incompressible the total mass in the computational domain must be conserved. Therefore the net flux across the boundaries should vanish. This implies that and for x 7.1 where means the spatial average on the boundaries . Numerical Method

The present invention solves the fully nonlinear equations 2 and 3 via a pseudo spectral method. For pertinent information see C. Canuto M. Y. Hussaini A. Quarteroni and T. A. Zang Spring Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 1988. A typical embodiment of the present invention s pseudo spectral method can be summarized as follows. First the velocity potential and the free surface elevation are expanded in Fourier series 

Fast Fourier Transforms FFT are used for spatial integration in which and are transformed between the physical space and the spectral space. A third order Runge Kutta method See W. B. Press B. P. Flannery S. A. Teukolsky and W. T. Vetterling Numerical Recipes 818 pp 1986 is applied for time integration.

In order to study ship wave interactions for arbitrary bodies one must model the ship boundary very accurately because the pressure distribution near the boundary is the driving force for the ship generated surface waves. Normally a ship can be very accurately resolved by clustering more grid points in the regions where the ship geometry varies rapidly. Therefore the uniform collocation points of the spectral representation are less than ideal for arbitrary bodies. Furthermore ship hull forms are defined on surface grids that are very different from the uniform grid of the spectral method collocation points. To resolve these problems we introduce a grid point transformation between the uniform collocation points of the spectral method and the non uniform grid points of the ship surface. The ship geometry e.g. ship boundary points and the normal vectors on the hull surface and flow variables e.g. velocity pressure in the vicinity of the ship are also transformed between the grid points and collocation points.

The ship boundary condition Equation 5 can be solved in several different ways. An effective numerical approach is to replace 5 by the following two equivalent conditions and 0 0 9 and

To obtain the pressure itself we use the following finite difference approximation. Assuming that xis a point on the ship boundary and x x x x y y z z is the nearest point on the spectral grid in the fluid outside the ship then we can approximate the pressure as

It is explicit that the points are mathematically singular if circumflex over n 0. The bow and the stern of the ship are two singular points. To avoid the mathematical singularity the present invention approximates circumflex over n at these points by circumflex over n where circumflex over n is the parameter describing the numerical resolution and circumflex over n is the minimum value of the neighboring points on the ship boundary . The remainder of the term in brackets gis

With the above approximations we can evaluate the pressure and the velocity near the ship boundary. To transform the variables from the irregular local grid points on the ship boundary to regular uniform collocation points we apply a bi linear interpolation. Assume that f x y and f x y are the values of the variable on the collocation points x y and on the irregular local grid points x y of the ship boundary. Then we have 

The flow structures near the ship are often smaller than those far from the ship. Therefore we do not need to apply fine numerical resolution throughout the entire computational domain. To take advantage of this we introduce a multi domain approach in which the entire domain is divided into several sub domains. Different numerical resolutions are used in the sub domains to reduce the computational cost without compromise on convergence rate. The division and the numerical resolutions depend on specific problems under consideration.

For example to study a steady ship motion in calm water it is sufficient to have three sub domains with the center domain containing the ship and one sub domain on each side of the center domain. In the center domain a fine spatial resolution of the truncation order N 96 M 192 is applied so that approximations Equation 13 and Equation 15 can be evaluated very accurately. In the two side domains a coarser spatial resolution of N 64 M 128 is adopted. To speed up the simulation the dimensions of the sub domains are decided according to the truncation level and the smallest length scale necessary for numerical convergence. To match solutions in adjacent sub domains we allow small overlapping areas between them and apply matching boundary conditions in the overlapping areas. In the steady ship motion problem we first solve the flow in the center sub domain via open boundary conditions 

After obtaining the solutions in the center sub domain we use the flow in the overlapping regions as the incoming flow for the relevant sub domains. If numerical convergence is achieved in the center sub domain the higher order spectral coefficients of the solution are negligible.

Solving the far field boundary conditions Equation 6 and Equation 7 are another challenge to the pseudo spectral approach. The expansions Equation 8 imply intrinsically that solutions on the boundaries are periodic. This may require un necessarily large numerical domain so that the ship generated waves will be asymptotically damped in far field and thus demand un reasonable computational resources. Therefore we need to modify the flow properties in the far field to satisfy the asymptotic conditions Equation 6 and Equation 7 . The approach that the present invention uses is to assume open boundaries. The boundary conditions in the far field ahead of the ship are . 17 In the far field on the sides of and behind the ship we have

To solve the free surface B and C Equations 2 and 3 we start from either the trivial initial solution 0 or a solution from a previous simulation. Then the pressure field on the ship surface is updated by 13 and the spectral coefficients a b are updated by 2 and 3 . In this process the pressure field tilde over P is transformed between the irregular ship surface grid and the regular spectral collocation points. The nonlinear terms in Equation 2 and Equation 3 are transformed between the physical space and spectral space via FFT.

Described hereinabove are the inventive pseudo spectral model together with the inventive method by which the ship body boundary condition Equation 5 Equation 5.1 is satisfied e.g. defined via boundary elements . Next is described the pressure on a moving ship in the ship normal vector coordinates in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. Focused upon hereinbelow is the inventive approach to evaluating the smooth pressure field on the ship .

Directly solving the Neumann boundary condition Equation 5 Equation 5.1 is one of the most expensive tasks in fluid dynamic modeling it is complicated not only by irregular grids describing arbitrary ship geometries but also by the demand of very high local numerical resolution near the boundary. In order to avoid these numerical difficulties the present invention adopts an alternative approach that uses the pressure correction to replace the Neumann condition Equation 5 Equation 5.1 on the ship surface.

To explain this inventive approach we first consider the case without a ship ship free . Denote by the velocity potential and pthe associated pressure in this case and introduce the modified pressure

When a ship is present one could describe its effect as a correction p added to the ship free pressure p. 26 This pressure correction p results in the difference in the equation 2 

With this inventive approach the ship body boundary condition Equation 5 Equation 5.1 is not directly coded into the present invention s model instead the ship body boundary condition Equation 5 Equation 5.1 is implemented through the pressure correction Equation 28 which can be efficiently evaluated via the present invention s pseudo spectral method.

To benchmark the present invention s pseudo spectral model we use the well known Wigley hull form defined as 

For a mathematical ship such as the Wigley ship given by Equation 29 the normal vector can be calculated analytically but for an arbitrary real ship the normal vector is calculated numerically.

The free surface has 1 512 points and the ship surface is also defined by 1 512 points. In all cases the ship is fixed in calm water.

Hereinbelow the present invention s pseudo spectral model results are compared with the experimental data at slow medium and fast ship speeds. The Froude numbers are 0.25 0.316 and 0.408. First the present invention s pseudo spectral linear model results are compared with experimental data. Second the present invention s pseudo spectral nonlinear model results are compared with the present invention s pseudo spectral linear model results and with the experimental data.

Any aspect or group of aspects of the present invention admits of embodiment as a method an apparatus e.g. comprising a machine having a memory or a computer program product. Typical inventive practice provides for utilization of a computer including a processor for rendering mathematical determinations in accordance with inventive principles. A computer program product e.g. algorithmic software embodying one or more aspects of the present invention is resident in the memory of the computer. is diagrammatically illustrative of residence of the present invention s computer program product in the memory of the present invention s computer . is generally representative of the involvement of computers in practice of the present invention in any or all of its aspects. The graph in is shown connected to computer by way of example as an inventive computer program product can be used to generate multifarious types of information.

Since we use different contour levels and a grid different from Yang et al. See C. Yang C. R. L hner F. Noblesse and T. T. Huang Calculation of Ship Sinkage and Trim Using Unstructured Grids European Congress Computational Methods in Applied Sciences and Engineering ECCOMAS 2000 Barcelona 2000 we cannot compare the present invention s pseudo spectral linear results with Yang et al 2000 . The wave length the spread distance in the y direction as well as the free surface elevation are strongest at higher Froude numbers such as shown in . These features decrease with decreasing Froude number.

For quantitative comparison as shown in through the linear wave profiles that are based on the present invention s pseudo spectral model are plotted against the experimental measurements from the University of Tokyo See Report to the 17ITTC Resistance Committee ITTC 1983 . The linear pseudo spectral ship wave profiles are shown with the experimental measurements in and where the solid line represents the computational results and the points represent the measurements. In Froude number 0.25 in Froude number 0.316 in Froude number 0.408. The ship is moving in the positive x direction the bow is at 0.5 and the stern is at 0.5. In the computed results agree well with the measurements. In the computed bow wave height is less than the measurement by about 6 percent and shows that the computed linear bow wave is about 20 percent less than the measurement. This discrepancy is similar to the numerical results of Yang et al. 2000 when sinkage and trim are not included.

The above results show that the computed linear ship wave profiles agree well with the measurements when the Froude number is small. The difference between the computed results and the measurements increases as the Froude number increases. In this study we have not included sinkage and trim. Beyond the bow wave the computed wave profiles along the ship also show some differences relative to the measurements. When the

Froude number is small such as in one may not able to see the differences however when the Froude number increases the differences increase as is seen in . The present invention s predicted wave profile near the bow of the inventive model is smaller than the measurements and the present invention s predicted wave profile near the stern of the inventive model is higher than the measurements. ii Nonlinear Model Results in Calm Water

This subsection compares the present invention s nonlinear pseudo spectral results with the inventively obtained linear pseudo spectral results and with the measurements from University of Tokyo. and show the wave contours by the present invention s pseudo spectral nonlinear model a Froude number 0.25 b Froude number 0.316 and c Froude number 0.408. Shown in through are the wave patterns from the present invention s nonlinear ship motion solutions for Wigley Hull. The wave contours are plotted using the same contour levels as used in through .

The ship wave patterns shown in through are nonlinear solutions obtained using the present invention s pseudo spectral model. The present invention s nonlinear solutions are truly unique solutions that cannot be obtained or mimicked in any other manner. The nonlinear wave contours shown in through are quite similar to the linear wave contours shown in through FIG. . This indicates that the nonlinearity of ship waves has not significantly impacted the far field ship wave features in calm water.

For a quantitative comparison wave profiles along the ship from inventive nonlinear computations inventive linear computations and measurements are used. Wave profiles computed using the present invention s pseudo spectral nonlinear and linear models and measurements are shown in wherein Froude number 0.25 wherein Froude number 0.316 and wherein Froude number 0.408 . The solid dash lines represent the inventive nonlinear model results the solid lines represent the inventive linear model results and the points represent the measurements. For the low Froude number the wave profiles computed using the present invention s nonlinear and linear models both agree well with the measurements. However as shown in when the Froude number increases the bow wave of the present invention s nonlinear predictions agrees better with the measurements than does the bow wave of the present invention s linear predictions. When the Froude number is equal to 0.316 the difference in bow wave elevation between the inventive nonlinear computations and the measurements is 3 percent instead of the 6 percent difference between the inventive linear computations and the measurements. When Froude number is 0.408 the difference in bow wave elevations between the inventive nonlinear model predictions and the measurements is 5 percent and the difference in bow wave elevations between the inventive linear model predictions and the measurements is 20 percent. Therefore we can conclude that when the Froude number is large the nonlinear contributions to the bow wave become important even in calm water.

Thus for small Froude numbers Fr the wave patterns of the linear solutions shown in through are similar to those of the nonlinear solutions shown in through . However near the ship body the ship profiles of the linear solutions shown in through are different from the ship profiles of the nonlinear solutions shown in through . This difference increases with the Froude number as seen clearly in through . In other words as ships move faster ship motions can only be appropriately described by fully nonlinear solutions.

Other than the bow waves the wave profiles from the nonlinear through and linear through computations are very similar even at a high Froude number. However the wave profiles from the present invention s nonlinear and linear models are different from the measurements. These differences between inventive model results and measurements increase with increasing Froude number. This suggests that these differences may be due to the sinkage and trim.

In are plotted the distributions of the absolute velocity potential of the solution in in the spectral wave number space. serves to demonstrate the convergence of the present invention s solutions. shows that the log varies with wave number. at k 1.0308 is six orders of magnitude smaller than at k 0.0164. From one can find that the spectral coefficient for k 1.0308 is six orders of magnitude smaller than that for k 0.0164 that is the convergence is satisfactory. illustrates rapid decay of the spectral coefficients of as the wave numbers increase therefore the present invention s numerical solutions are convergent and hence reliable .

Two cases are now considered to test the present invention s numerical approach to evaluating pressure on the ship hull. The first case is modeling the steady surface waves generated by a Wigley hull defined as

The Wigley hull model is a mathematical ship model. The grid points on the ship boundary can be directly evaluated from Equation 30 . Hereinabove we use the Wigley hull model to analyze linear and nonlinear results in calm water. One of the present inventors findings is that nonlinear bow wave results agree better with the experimental data in particular for large Froude numbers. Here we focus on the nonlinear results with the present invention s new body boundary condition algorithm Equation 28 .

Shown in through are nonlinear wave profiles for Wigley Hull. In this example of inventive modeling three different Froude numbers are considered viz. Fn 0.25 0.316 0.408. The ship surface is defined with 1512 grid points that are fixed in the reference frame moving with the ship. The numerical results for the wave profile along the ship are shown in and . In and the dashed lines represent the results shown in and where the pressure is evaluated directly the solid lines are the results from the present invention s non Cartesian body boundary condition algorithm and the points are the experimental measurements from the University of Tokyo See the aforementioned Report to the 17ITTC Resistance Committee ITTC 1983 with Fn 0.25 in Fn 0.316 in and Fn 0.408 in . The bow is at 0.5 and the stern is at 0.5.

As shown in through the solid lines are the results from the present invention s model which includes a nonsingular pressure algorithm on the moving ship. The dashed lines are generally representative of other methods which include a singular pressure algorithm. The points are the experimental data. Compared to other methods the present invention s nonsingular pressure algorithmic model results agree much better with the experiments.

From and it is observed that the results from the present invention s non Cartesian algorithm solid lines agree better with the measurements than do the results from the present invention s Cartesian algorithm dashed lines especially at small Fn see and . This indicates that the present invention s non Cartesian algorithm outperforms the present invention s Cartesian algorithm for the ship pressure calculation. It is also observed from through that the difference between the inventive model results and the measurements increases with the Froude number. Note that the sinkage and the trim are not considered in these calculations.

Since a Series 60 C 0.6 hull is not a simple mathematical body its boundary is defined on the grid points. In this calculation there are 7 112 grid points on the ship boundary. Shown in through are nonlinear wave profiles around the ship in calm water for series 60 Hull and C 0.6. The solid lines are the results from the inventive model and the points are the experiment data they agree well with each other.

Computations of the wave profiles along the hull using the new algorithm solid lines and from measurements points are shown in through . In Fn 0.18 in Fn 0.25 in Fn 0.32. When Fn is small the numerical results agree well with the measurements however as in the first case the difference between two sets of the results increases with Fn See esp. . One possible cause of the increase in the difference may be the increasing importance of sinkage and trim neglected in our computations for the higher speeds.

Waves contours with an increment of 0.0006 are shown in through . These wave patterns from the present invention s linear ship motion solutions are for Series 60 C 0.6. In Fn 0.18 in Fn 0.25 in Fn 0.32. The maximum wave magnitude increases with Fn i.e. increases from 0.006 in to 0.012 in to 0.018 in . All of the intervals of the contour lines are 0.0006. The wave patterns are similar to those of Yang et al. 2000 however point to point comparison is not possible in through due to different contour settings in these figures.

Wave resistance is calculated from the output and is compared with other computed results Raven 1998 . Following Raven 1998 we examine the Rcomputed in two ways pressure integration over the hull and far field momentum calculations 

Illustrated in is the wave resistance computed using the far field momentum integral at different Froude numbers. The value of the wave resistance coefficient computed using pressure integration over the hull is not shown in because the maximum relative difference between the two is less than 10 percent. incorporates information from FIG. 4.1 of Raven 1998 and additionally illustrates inventive results the dash dotted line . In it is seen that the inventive model results agree well with the other model results. The present inventors conjecture that the difference between the results may be due to the sinkage and the trim effects neglected in the inventive pseudo spectral computations as well as numerical issues and experiment inaccuracies.

Disclosed herein is the present invention s pseudo spectral model for nonlinear ship wave interactions. The present invention s numerical results demonstrate that fully nonlinear ship waves in calm water can be well resolved with the present invention s pseudo spectral methods. The numerical results also demonstrate that the present invention s nonlinear pseudo spectral model is more accurate in resolving ship wave interactions than linear models. For example the difference in the bow waves obtained with linear or small perturbation models and those measured from experiments increases very rapidly with Froude number. For the Wigley hull when F 0.408 the computed linear bow waves are about 20 percent smaller than those from experiments. However the numerical results from the present invention s nonlinear pseudo spectral model are only 5 percent smaller and are thus much closer to the actual measured waves. At low Froude numbers the difference is negligible. This small difference between the pseudo spectral numerical results and the experiments may partly result from the fact that the sinkage and trim are not included in the pseudo spectral results. As is well known the effect of sinkage and trim increases with increasing Froude number.

The success of the present invention s pseudo spectral model depends to some extent on several key numerical developments. The first is the transformation between the regular pseudo spectral collocation points and irregular body points on the ship thus enabling us to model arbitrary ships with little loss of computational efficiency. The second is the multi domain approach that maximizes the advantage of spectral methods so that different spatial resolutions can be effectively addressed with moderate truncation levels. The third is the open boundary condition approximation that effectively reduces the dimension of numerical domain resulting in less computational time.

In addition the present invention s pseudo spectral model can effectively simulate interactions between ships and incident gravity waves because the latter are either the base functions themselves in Equation 8 or linear combinations of the base functions. Modeling surface wave ship interactions will require careful unification of the present invention s pseudo spectral steady motion model with a fully nonlinear free surface wave wave interaction model Lin and Kuang 2004 . The present inventors plan to pursue this avenue.

The present invention s pseudo spectral model typically includes a boundary element representation of the ship. This inventive boundary element representation can be in either a Cartesian coordinate system or a non Cartesian coordinate system. According to typical inventive practice in which the inventive boundary element representation is in a Cartesian coordinate system a blocked Fourier series representation of the flow is used to solve for the pressure on the hull. According to typical inventive practice in which the inventive boundary element representation is in a non Cartesian coordinate system the pressure is solved for in a ship normal vector coordinate system whereby the pressure due to the ship motion through the fluid becomes a smooth function. Comparisons between computational results and experimental data show that the present invention s boundary element method expressed in normal vector coordinates is more accurate than the present invention s boundary element method expressed in Cartesian coordinates.

Presented hereinabove are numerical results for Series 60 C 0.6 as well as quantitative comparisons of the inventive wave profile along the ship and far field wave making resistance with experimental data extracted from Raven 1998 and Yang et al. 2000 . The difference between the results using the present invention s pressure body boundary condition versus the experiments may partly result from the fact that sinkage and trim are not included in the results. It is known that the effect of sinkage and trim increases with the Froude number. Also presented hereinabove are ship wave patterns that are shown to be similar to those existing model results and observed data. This suggests that the fully nonlinear ship waves in calm water can be well resolved with inventive pseudo spectral methods even with a complicated hull shape especially when the boundary element representation of the ship is inventively rendered in a normal vector coordinate system. Uniquely and advantageously the present invention s non Cartesian coordinate system as applied to ship boundary is characterized by non singularity. The velocity potential on a moving ship is singular according to inventive practice of a Cartesian coordinate system in contrast the velocity potential on a moving ship is non singular according to inventive practice of a non Cartesian normal vector coordinate system thus avoiding the discretization and numerical errors.

Worthy of emphasis is the computational efficiency of the present invention s model. Assuming that the numerical resolutions in x y are given by N N grid points the typical floating point operations flops of the local algorithms used in the existing models are of the order N. In contrast according to the present invention s model the flop is of the order N log N. If N 1000 the present invention s model can be 300 times faster than other models. The speed up afforded by inventive practice can be orders of magnitude larger with more grid points or higher numerical resolutions .

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

