---

title: Synchronized physical and analytical representations of a CAD model
abstract: Methods and apparatus, including computer program products, for providing a computer aided design (CAD) model comprising a plurality of physical elements. An analytical representation of the plurality of physical elements is generated. The analytical representation comprising a plurality of analytical elements corresponding to the physical elements. An association between each analytical element and corresponding physical element is generated such that a modification to one element can be applied to modify a corresponding other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07761266&OS=07761266&RS=07761266
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 07761266
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060125
---
Computer aided design CAD software is often used to prepare a CAD model or models representing a structure such as a building while in the design stages. The CAD model can include representations of physical elements such as columns beams and the like that will be included in the structure and drawings prepared from such a CAD model can be used in the actual physical construction of the corresponding structure. The CAD model may be prepared and edited by various individuals including architects and structural engineers. As part of the design stage a structural analysis is typically performed on components that will be included in the structure for example to ensure there is sufficient load bearing capacity and the like. Structural analysis software is available to facilitate the analysis process. Conventional structural analysis software receives as input an analytical representation of a structure. An analytical representation of a structure is different than a representation of the physical elements e.g. columns beams etc. It is an idealized mathematical model that may represent only a portion of a building such as one wing or one floor or one frame of the building. For example an analytical representation may be a wire frame representation of the physical elements and the wire frame elements can include or be associated with properties e.g. weight moment of inertia cross sectional area member connectivity and or end conditions e.g. pinned free fixed . Typically the analytical representation is prepared separately and is used for the structural analysis and perhaps other types of analyses that are performed in the design stage.

The analytical representation can be subjected to load simulation and the like in a structural analysis program for example to identify stress levels in the various elements. On the basis of the analysis elements may be modified e.g. resized or other properties changed and the modified analytical representation reanalyzed. The results of the analysis can be used to manually update the corresponding physical elements in the CAD model. The effort and coordination involved with maintaining two separate representations of the CAD model i.e. the physical and the analytical and maintaining synchronicity between the two can be significant. Synchronization problems not caught before a design is finalized can result in unexpected costs and scheduling problems and safety as the structure may collapse.

This specification describes systems techniques and computer programs for synchronizing physical and analytical representations of a CAD model.

In one general aspect the techniques feature providing a computer aided design CAD model comprising a plurality of physical elements. Generating an analytical representation of the plurality of physical elements the analytical representation comprising a plurality of analytical elements corresponding to the physical elements. And generating an association between each analytical element and corresponding physical element such that a modification to one element can be applied to modify a corresponding other.

The invention can be implemented to include one or more of the following advantageous features. Performing a structural analysis of the CAD model based on the analytical representation. Modifying the analytical representation based on the structural analysis. Modifying one or more of the plurality of physical elements based on the modification to the analytical representation. Providing a CAD model comprises receiving user input creating the CAD model. Providing a CAD model comprises importing an existing CAD model. Receiving a user input modifying a physical element modifying the physical element in accordance with the user input and modifying a corresponding analytical element based on the modification to the physical element. Receiving a user input modifying an analytical element modifying the analytical element in accordance with the user input and modifying a corresponding physical element based on the modification to the analytical element. A physical element has an associated a physical appearance. An analytical element is a point to point wire frame representation of a corresponding physical element. One or more of the analytical elements include a variation from the corresponding one or more physical elements where the variation facilitates a structural analysis of the analytical representation.

In another general aspect the techniques feature receiving a user input to modify one of a physical element or an analytical element corresponding to the physical element. If the physical element is modified automatically modifying the analytical element to reflect the modification to the physical element. If the analytical element is modified automatically modifying the physical element to reflect the modification to the analytical element. And where the physical element is included in a physical representation of a CAD model and the analytical element is included in an analytical representation of the CAD model.

The invention can be implemented to include one or more of the following advantageous features. Performing a structural analysis of the CAD model based on the analytical representation. Modifying the analytical representation based on the structural analysis. Modifying the CAD model based on the structural analysis.

In another general aspect the techniques feature performing a structural analysis of an analytical representation of a computer aided design CAD model. Automatically modifying the analytical representation of the CAD model based on the structural analysis. And modifying the CAD model in accordance with the modification to the analytical representation of the CAD model.

The invention can be implemented to include one or more of the following advantageous features. Modifying the CAD model includes resizing one or more physical elements in the CAD model. Modifying the CAD model includes updating one or more attributes associated with a physical element in the CAD model with information generated by the structural analysis. Presenting the analytical representation as a point to point wire frame representation of the CAD model.

Implementations of the invention can realize one or more of the following advantages. A physical representation and a corresponding analytical representation can be integrated in a single Computer Aided Design CAD model. Modifications made to elements in the physical representation can be automatically reflected in the analytical representation and vice versa. The analytical representation of a CAD model can be automatically created and can be modified by a user. This saves users time and allows users to work on more projects. A structural analysis of the analytical representation can be used to optimize the physical design and effect synchronized changes to the analytical and physical representations. Results from structural analysis can be automatically included in physical drawings which can result in better and safer designs. Various structural analysis programs can be used and other types of analysis can be performed including concrete design analysis lateral load analysis gravity load analysis beam design analysis steel design analysis dynamic analysis seismic analysis and steel connection design analysis.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

System techniques and computer programs for synchronizing physical and analytical representations of a CAD model are described.

Although a graphical user interface GUI is illustrated other user interfaces are possible including user interfaces that allow for user interaction by means of sound voice gesture eye movement use of remote control devices manually controlled devices and combinations of these. The user interface can be provided on a number of computing devices including but not limited to devices such as a workstations personal computers cellular telephones personal digital assistants portable video playback devices combinations of these and other suitable devices. In one implementation the user interface can be presented as one or more web pages. By way of illustration the CAD tool can execute on one or more computing devices connected by one or more wired or wireless networks shared memory inter processor networks or other suitable means. A computing device can run a proprietary or commercially available multi tasking operating system such as without limitation Microsoft Windows XP available from Microsoft Corp. of Redmond Wash. Linux available from www.lixux.org and Apple OS X available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. .

The user interface illustrated in can present one or more views of one or more models. A three dimensional 3D view presents a physical representation of a CAD model of a building. The view can be used to create and modify the physical representation . The physical representation depicts physical elements of the building represented by the CAD model including without limitation beams braces floors slabs columns walls and isolated and continuous footings. In one implementation and by way of illustration the user interface includes a view panel which allows a user to select views and display one or multiple views in the user interface . The view panel includes but is not limited to two dimensional 2D and 3D views plans elevations sectional views analytical views and combinations of these. View shows a CAD model of a building section having beams and and footings and . Physical elements can be associated with attributes. In one implementation physical element attributes include without limitation geometry location weight cross sectional area construction materials reference to one or more corresponding analytical elements and other suitable properties. Attribute values can be specified by the user or provided by default.

In one implementation the analytical elements are automatically connected to one another to form a wire frame representation of the CAD model. In one implementation a predetermined type of analytical element corresponds to a particular type or types of physical elements. Thus when generating an analytical representation corresponding to the physical representation analytical elements corresponding to physical elements can be created accordingly. An analytical element has a default position in relation to the analytical element s corresponding physical element s . See Table 1. For example a physical element representing a column has a corresponding analytical element that is a line that runs through the center of the column location.

As the analytical representation is generated in parallel with the physical representation connections between physical elements cause connections to be made between analytical elements. In some instances the location of an analytical element is deviated from the default location so that that the analytical element may connect to another analytical element. As a result an analytical element may be partially coincident with or incongruous to a corresponding physical element. In one implementation connections between analytical elements maintain coherence in the analytical representation. Coherence takes into account the probable location of finite element analysis nodes on analytical elements e.g. for structural analysis and guides connections between analytical elements to these locations. A node is a point at which different elements are joined together and where values of unknowns can be approximated. By way of illustration if the analytical representation of a physical element representing a beam is attached at one end to the surface of a physical element representing a column the corresponding analytical element representing the beam which is a line centered on the top surface of the physical element representing the beam will pass through the physical element representing the column to connect with the analytical element representing the column which is a line located at the center of the column .

Default analytical element locations and coherence requirements can be described by rules or information which can be created and modified by the user or structural analysis. In one implementation coherence of the analytical representation is not a prerequisite to performing structural analysis of the CAD model. In one implementation the default location and connectivity of an analytical element can be overridden by the user.

The analytical representation can include without limitation the following attributes geometry and location of analytical elements moments of inertia sheer capacity connectivity or end conditions e.g. pinned fixed free material properties reference to one or more corresponding physical elements and release conditions. Attribute values can be specified by a user or provided by default. In one implementation default attribute values can be determined based on heuristics informed by for example and without limitation the user s past interaction with the CAD model the materials and geometries of the physical elements building codes historical weather patterns for a given location and the purpose of the structure e.g. office hospital school condominium parking garage etc. .

When an attribute of an analytical element is modified the corresponding physical element can be adjusted to reflect the modification. In one implementation when an analytical element attribute is changed analytical elements that are connected to the analytical element are adjusted if necessary to maintain coherency. For instance if the user moved the location of an analytical element representing a horizontal beam then analytical elements connected to the moved analytical element would be moved or resized accordingly in order to maintain their coherent connection to the beam. In one implementation changing the location or size of an analytical element does not change the location of the analytical element s corresponding physical element.

Referring again to the analytical view includes analytical elements representing columns and a beam connecting the columns . A 2D elevation view of the physical representation of the section shows the corresponding physical elements and . Changes made to physical element attributes can be automatically reflected in corresponding analytical elements and vice versa. In one implementation changing the location of an analytical element does not cause the corresponding physical element to change its location. This allows a user to manipulate the analytical representation to capture eccentricities such as a torque or turning not manifest in the physical representation.

In one implementation structural analysis optimization of the CAD model or portions thereof can be performed by or from the CAD software application. Structural analysis include applying simulated loads which can be generated in the CAD software application to the analytical representation and based on the results suggesting design changes or redesigning the corresponding physical elements for example that reach their maximum stresses. In one implementation a commercially available structural analysis program is used to perform the analysis. The structural analysis program can be tightly integrated with the CAD software application e.g. as a plug in module or dynamic link library or loosely integrated e.g. requiring export of the CAD model to the structural analysis program . As examples the following commercially available structural analysis programs can be used ETABS available from Computers and Structures Inc. of Berkeley Calif. RISA 3D available from RISA Technologies of Foothill Ranch Calif. or ROBOT Millennium available from RoboBAT ISS Inc. Other types of analysis programs can be integrated with the CAD software application including but not limited to concrete design analysis lateral load analysis gravity load analysis beam design analysis steel design analysis dynamic analysis seismic analysis and steel connection design analysis.

In yet a further implementation changes made to the CAD model by structural analysis program or by a user interacting with the structural analysis or other analysis program are saved. For example the structural analysis program might change the thickness and position of columns in the physical representation. These changes are saved in the CAD model and thus are available to be viewed and modified from the CAD tool. This integrated model capability can eliminate redundant work done by physical engineers in modeling and analyzing buildings and improve the coordination with the physical drafters that finish the drawings.

In one implementation the user interface propagates information pertaining to changes the user makes to the CAD model through one or more views to a change engine . The change engine accepts this information and uses it to maintain synchronization between the analytical representation and the physical representation of the CAD model. For example if a user moves a physical element the change engine moves the corresponding analytical element s as necessary to maintain coherence in the analytical representation. Likewise changes to attributes made in one representation are reflected in the other by the change engine . The change engine generates the analytical representation as the user interactively generates or edits the physical representation.

In one implementation structural analysis of the analytical representation is initiated by the analysis component . In one implementation the analysis component invokes one or more structural analysis programs or other types of analysis programs e.g. concrete design analysis lateral load analysis gravity load analysis beam design analysis steel design analysis dynamic analysis seismic analysis and steel connection design analysis through an application programming interface API . The API communicates with an analysis program through a service provider interface SPI such as and . Each analysis program implements the SPI. The API and the SPIs can implement a communication protocol that exchanges information using memory buffers shared memory dynamically linked libraries network communication mechanisms or other suitable means including more than one of these.

In one implementation an API and an SPI are instantiations of objects. An API object s methods invoke an SPI object s methods in order to transfer model information and perform structural analysis. For example a structural analysis program may need to export the CAD model or otherwise convert the CAD model into a format suitable for structural analysis. In a further implementation the API can cause a structural analysis program to present a GUI through which the user can direct the analysis. In another implementation the structural analysis programs can directly read and write information to the CAD model e.g. through an SPI or other suitable means .

The structural analysis program or the user of the structural analysis program can change attributes of both physical and analytical elements in the CAD model . For example the size of elements can be increased to accommodate loads. In one implementation physical and analytical element attributes can be recognized by the structural analysis programs . Analysis results can also be stored with each element s attributes. These changes to element attributes are automatically incorporated into the CAD model directly or indirectly e.g. by importing information from an analysis program thereby making the changes immediately available for viewing in the user interface .

The system may have fewer or more components than those illustrated in . A given component can execute on one or more communicably coupled computing devices. For instance computing devices can be connected by a wired network a wireless network the Internet shared memory an inter processor communication channel or combinations of these.

The invention and all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structural means disclosed in this specification and structural equivalents thereof or in combinations of them. The invention can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more computer programs tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device medium or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program also known as a program software software application or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Generally a computer will include one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks a magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks. Any of the foregoing can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the invention can be implemented on a computer system having a display device such as a monitor or LCD screen for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer system. The computer system can be programmed to provide a graphical user interface through which computer programs interact with users.

Certain features which for clarity are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations may also be provided in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features which for brevity are described in the context of a single implementation may also be provided in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

A number of implementation of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the steps of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

