---

title: Systems and methods for providing remote ordering capabilities
abstract: The invention relates to methods and systems for receiving, processing and fulfilling remotely placed orders. In one aspect, requests to place an order are received from a remote location, and based on a customer identifier included in the request, customer preference data is retrieved. An electronic selection menu based on customer preference data is transmitted to the customer, the order is received and prepared. The customer's arrival is automatically detected, and the completed order is provided to the customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129289&OS=09129289&RS=09129289
owner: 
number: 09129289
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060929
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 723 127 filed Oct. 3 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to computer based methods and systems for remote ordering systems and more particularly to remote ordering systems allowing customers to place orders from a computer workstation within a vehicle or using mobile phones.

In recent years point of sale POS devices having sophisticated control electronics and user interfaces with large displays and touch pads or screens have streamlined consumer transactions and provided retailers with a great deal of data about the transactions. The dispensers include various types of payment means such as card readers and cash acceptors to expedite and further enhance these transactions. In some instances the POS devices are augmented with sensor based technology such as RFID. For example gasoline pumps have been outfitted with RFID transponders that detect the presence of an RFID tag that upon receiving RF energy from the transponder interacts with the signal in such a manner as to identify the customer and in some cases their individual preferences such as purchase methods pickup locations and the like. In addition to using the data to complete the sale it can be used as input to marketing analysis models to uncover consumer habits and preferences.

Recently the use of sensor based transaction systems has expanded to include communications of various types of information between a vehicle and other stations such as fuel dispensers toll booths and parking facilities. The more sophisticated systems provide a transponder on the vehicle configured to communicate with a fuel dispenser wherein identification and financial information is sent from the vehicle to the fuel dispenser to effect payment for fueling. In some cases customers can purchase additional goods and services such as car washes and convenience store products at the dispenser. Once purchased the customer need only pick up the goods and services at the station store or the outlet of a vending machine.

Although such systems allow customers to order automobile related products and services and simple pre packaged convenience store items such as candy and soda they do not provide a means for customers to quickly and efficiently order purchase and receive quality food items and or consumer goods that are prepared to order. Instead customers wishing to purchase a quality meal e.g. restaurant quality food for an entire family and or custom orders are limited to either in store dining or the traditional take out service. However for families that want quick efficient service without sacrificing the aspects of a local restaurant where the proprietors are familiar with customers particular likes and dislikes neither of these options provide an optimal solution.

For example a family wanting to pick up a healthy quality dinner for four while returning from various afternoon activities may not want to sit for an entire meal at the restaurant and the process of accumulating preferences of each family member can be daunting. In addition restaurants other than traditional fast food operations which offer little or no personal preferences often do not provide take out service because the throughput i.e. the number of customers they can service per hour does not warrant the additional expenses of such services.

What is needed therefore is a system and associated methods that allow customers to quickly order restaurant quality food place orders that are personalized to their particular likes and dislikes and that minimizes the time necessary for the restaurant to receive fill and deliver the order.

In general the invention relates to providing the infrastructure systems and methods to facilitate the ordering and provision of items using advanced technology with the goal of streamlining the ordering order fulfillment order delivery and payment process while still allowing customers to select from and customize a variety of items available for purchase. Generally speaking this goal can be achieved in one exemplary implementation through a three step process. First customers are invited to register with the system which includes capturing customer data payment preferences item preferences and in some cases issuing the customer an automated ID device that can be recognized upon the customer s arrival at the location at which the items are to be picked up. Second customers place orders based on personalized menus or inventory lists of available items. By storing a customer s personalization data and providing them with multiple modes of order entry web phone etc. the ordering process can be done at any time from virtually any location. Third sensor based technology e.g. RFID is used to identify the customers upon arrival. As customers arrive at the location either in a vehicle or on foot their orders are paid for and delivered to them either in the car or over the counter . Customers can manage their account over time allowing for personal favorites group orders payment preferences pickup locations dates and times and the like. Combining the up front personalization and order acceptance system with the customer recognition aspect customers will receive personalized service but in an efficient manner.

Accordingly in a first aspect the invention provides a method for fulfilling orders for items for sale. A request to place an order is received from a customer at a remote location using for example the Internet telephone and or wireless access protocols and based on a customer identifier included in the request customer preference data is obtained. An electronic selection menu including items based on the customer preference data is transmitted to the customer and the customer s order is received. The customer s arrival is automatically detected via RFID optical license plate recognition or other similar techniques and the completed order is provided to the customer.

The location at which the order is provided can be a restaurant in the case of a food order a grocery store or a market for general consumer goods for example . Customer preference data may include previously ordered items payment preferences and or a preferred pickup location all or some of which may be maintained in a customer preference database. Multiple preferences may be maintained for a customer and in some embodiments represent preferences for multiple people e.g. family members employees etc. . In some instances a pickup location is suggested to the customer based for example on a current or anticipated location of the customer and may include providing an address telephone number and or directions to the suggested location. The customers may also be provided with a radio frequency identification device that facilitates the automatic recognition of the customer when arriving at or approaching the location whether on foot at a service counter or in a vehicle at the entrance to a parking lot or drive through lane . In some implementations the orders are received and picked up at the same location whereas in other cases the order processing and order preparation and delivery steps may occur at separate locations in which case the order is transmitted to the location at which the order is to be prepared and picked up by the customer.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for fulfilling food orders at a restaurant that includes maintaining a database of customer data including a customer identifier and a customer preference for each customer receiving a request including the customer code from a remote customer to place an order at the restaurant retrieving the customer data associated with the customer using the customer identifier transmitting to the customer an electronic menu including items based on the customer preference receiving a menu selection from the customer automatically detecting the customer s arrival at the restaurant and providing the prepared order to the customer upon their arrival at the restaurant.

The customer preference can be a payment preference and or an order preference. The request can be received via the Internet a wireless access protocol or using a voice recognition system. In embodiments in which the customer preference data relates to items for sale information regarding the preferences can be provided to inventory control systems in order to affect subsequent inventory control decisions regarding the items. In some embodiments the customer s arrival is automatically detected by a sensor based monitoring system such as a radio frequency identification system.

In another aspect a system for fulfilling food orders at a restaurant includes a data storage module a communications module and a sensor based monitoring system e.g. a radio frequency identification system . The data storage module stores customer preferences relating to restaurant orders and the communications module receives requests from remote customers to place orders including a customer code at a restaurant transmits an electronic menu to the customer including items based on a customer preference associated with the customer code and receives the order from the customer. The sensor based monitoring system detects the arrival of the customer at the restaurant and transmits instructions to the restaurant to provide the order to the customer upon their arrival.

Referring to and in one embodiment an exemplary order management system provides customers with multiple ways of communicating orders from remote locations using automated means. The system includes an internet based customer interaction server an RFID subsystem and a point of sale subsystem each of which is described in greater detail below. In some implementations the system may also include a voice recognition server that allows customers to use verbal commands to order items and in some instances recognize customers based on voiceprint identification technology. Further the system allows the customers orders to be provided to the customer upon their arrival based on automated detection methods.

In summary customers use one or more remote communication modalities e.g. the Internet cellular telephones PDAs automobile based information systems etc. to pre order orders such as restaurant grocery store or retail items by selecting the items from a menu or inventory of items. Unlike conventional take out order systems or web based grocery purchase applications the list of items either a menu or inventory list from a grocery store or retail chain presented to the customers is tailored to the individual likes and habits of each customer and their arrival at the restaurant or store is automatically detected using RFID readers .

Although the system and associated methods can provide these features in various embodiments the technique can be described generally as occurring in five phases as illustrated in the customer registration phase the preference selection phase the customer order phase the order delivery phase and the payment phase. In some implementations however the order in which these phases may differ and certain phases may occur in parallel. For example in instances in which the customer has pre allocated funds on account or has previously provided a credit card number the payment phase may occur after order entry but prior to order delivery. In other cases companies that use the system for catering and or on a frequent basis may indicate that they wish to be billed on a periodic basis e.g. monthly for all orders placed during that period. In such cases multiple order and delivery phases may occur prior to the payment phase.

Referring to customers contact the system STEP by one of various methods. For example a customer may be at work and wish to order food for dinner that evening or groceries for pickup and contact the system via a computer and the Internet. In another example a user may be in an airport returning from a trip and use her cellular telephone to call and or text message her order to the system. Other examples include the use of PDAs e.g. TREO by Palm Inc. or BLACKBERRY by Research in Motion Inc. that provide both web based and message based technologies email text etc. with which the customer can contact the system as well as automobile based navigation and on board assistance systems both factory installed and aftermarket such as ONSTAR by General Motors and various satellite based systems.

The system then determines STEP if a customer ID was received as part of the initial contact. For example if the customer is a returning customer that had previously registered with the system and is contacting the system via the Internet a cookie file that including a customer ID may be stored on and retrieved from their workstation and used to identify the customer. If the customer contacts the system via telephone the system may utilize the caller ID feature to receive the telephone number from the customer is calling and use the number to retrieve customer information. However for new customers it is likely that no such ID will be provided nor is it likely that their telephone number would be recognized. In such cases the system may perform an additional check to determine if the customer is already registered STEP by presenting the user with a user login screen or telephony based menu system. By providing this second interactive check the system considers cases in which previously registered customers are contacting the system using an alternate device. For example a customer may have registered and used her workstation to communicate with the system in the past but use her cell phone on a particular occasion. In such cases the system allows the customer to provide STEP her customer ID using the alternate device and can then retrieve her customer data.

However for customers using the system for the first time the system facilitates registration with the remote ordering system in many ways. In one particular embodiment the invention facilitates registration through an on line web based registration system. Preferably the customers enter information about themselves during the registration step STEP through a series of web based forms. Examples of information can include such information as the customer s name contact information i.e. mail address telephone number email address a username e.g. an alias or handle for use on the site a password and or certain demographic information.

In some embodiments a customer s account may be associated with a group of related customers e.g. a spouse children friends co workers etc. For example a mother of two may register as a customer and create three additional sub users for her spouse and two children respectively. In some cases one or more of the sub users are able to use the account to order food and make payments spouses older children whereas in other cases the sub users are passive i.e. they are merely placeholders for storing order preferences. In certain examples a customer account may be attributed to a school or day care facility and used to schedule order and or pickup larger quantities of meals. For example a day care facility may offer its families access to the system under a common ID and allow parents to pre order lunches for their children and have a daycare employee pickup all the meals at a designated time.

In addition certain customers may wish to include payment preferences STEP as part of the registration process. For example users may provide a credit card number invoice number bank account number PAYPAL account number or other such information that allows the system to automatically bill the customer. In some instances customers may elect not to include payment instructions or may indicate that payment should be handled off line using for example cash upon receipt of the order. Other payment options may include payment frequency e.g. pay per order monthly invoice account balance limits that permit the system to replenish an customer s account balance by charging a credit card or debiting a bank account the triggering of email messages to the customer when an account balance exceeds a certain minimum and or maximum threshold authorization of an amount to be charged to their credit card as an initial credit balance for their account or any combination of the above.

In embodiments in which customers order preferences are maintained customers may also provide menu preferences STEP . The preferences can be based on a preset menu user supplied items general food preferences or any combination thereof. For example during the registration phase the customer is asked to provide their coffee preferences decaf milk sugars cream latte etc. by typing their preference into a text box. In other cases the customer is presented with an electronic menu of available items appetizers entrees desserts side orders beverages etc. and selects which items they believe they will order frequently including in some cases preferences about the items. For example a customer indicating that they wish the Hamburger Lunch to appear as their first choice may also indicate that they prefer it to be medium rare with cheddar cheese. In some cases multiple preferences can be selected to allow users to indicate a favorite based for example on the time if day thus allowing a customer to have a preferred breakfast order a preferred lunch order and a preferred dinner order. In such cases a different preference can be presented to the customer based on the time of day the customer calls to place the order. Customers may also provide general food preferences e.g. low calorie vegetarian no shellfish etc. that can then be used as a filter and applied to generally available menu items. This process of indicating preferred orders and individual preferences relating to the items can be repeated for each sub user thus building a pre set order for multiple family members including each family member s preferences.

In one embodiment the customer registration process includes providing the customer with an RFID tag that is uniquely associated with that customer s account. The RFID tag can be small enough for a customer to carry e.g. a key fob type tag or in some cases the tag can be attached to the customer s vehicle. The RFID tag may then be used to identify the customer upon arrival at the restaurant as described in further detail below.

Upon completion of registration and or successful authentication to the system in some cases during the same session customer specific information is received STEP e.g. retrieved from a database and the customer can place an order with the restaurant using one or more remote communications methods such as the Internet cell phones land based telephones vehicle based display systems hand held PDAs and other wireless devices. Using a cell phone for example a customer located virtually any distance from the restaurant can call a phone number the number being associated with a particular location or in some cases a central number servicing multiple locations and place an order. Initially the customer provides some form of authentication e.g. a user ID and password or in some instances the system automatically recognizes the customer based on identification information associated with the device e.g. an IP address phone number MAC address digital certificate product serial number etc. . In embodiments employing voice recognition technology a digital representation of the customer s voice provides the authentication information.

Once authenticated the customer is presented with an electronic menu which in certain implementations may be customized STEP based on the customer s preferences. The form of the electronic menu may be visual e.g. on a web page or a PDA display audio using a keypad based selection menu or both. In some embodiments the electronic menu includes all items offered by the restaurant whereas in other embodiments the electronic menu only includes those items previously selected by the customer and or excludes items that do not meet the user s general preferences. In some cases the customer s selections are augmented with other items such as new menu choices and or specials and may be updated as individual items are ordered. The presentation of additional menu items may also be based on an analysis of previous orders of customers having similar ordering histories and or demographic information. Such recommendations can be provided automatically with the customized menu or in response to the customer s request to see new or previously unordered items that people with similar demographic profiles and or order histories have ordered. By presenting the customer with a custom menu STEP based on their likes dislikes and prior orders the restaurant provides the customers with quick access to those items they routinely order while adding to the individual appeal of the restaurant.

In some embodiments the menus may include advertisements. These advertisements may be related to the restaurant or store at which the customer is ordering. In other examples the areas of the menu e.g. background header etc. may include ads for other stores that provide similar products or specific brands. For example a restaurant chain typically provides a particular brand of soft drinks for its customers e.g. COKE PEPSI etc. . The restaurant may in exchange for better pricing from the soft drink supplier include ads for that brand on the menu and annotate the menu with logos of the supplier.

In some embodiments the ads may be selected based on the preferences and or demographics of the customer. For example if a customer includes all vegetarian selections as her preferences and lives in an urban area the menu may include ads for local organic markets.

Because the identity of the customer is known as the order is entered using a user identifier or recognized telephone number for example their preferences both for food items as well as payment and or delivery preferences can be retrieved by the system. Payment for the order may be completed prior to pickup thus eliminating the need for the customer to present cash or credit cards and eliminating the need for restaurant staff to handle payment. The order is relayed to the kitchen or to the location preparing the order and the items are then prepared to order. As a result the customer s order is paid for and waiting for them upon arrival.

Referring to once the customer has received her menu either unaltered or customized based on her preferences she can select item s of interest and those selections are received STEP . In an example where the customer has stored pre selected items and possibly personal preferences as well those items may be presented to the customer as default choices. As one non limiting example a customer calling the phone number to order food once authenticated hears to order your first saved order press 1 to order your second saved order press 2 to order a new item press 3 and so on. In some cases the saved orders may include customer provided descriptions such as Steve s lunch order or Tuesday Group Lunch. Customers using a web based interface select their orders using any one of the commonly used methods for indicating selections on web based forms such as check boxes drop down lists and others. In some instances the customer indicates a particular date time or range of time that she anticipates picking up the order thus allowing customers to pre order meals hours or even days in advance. The customer s payment preference is also received STEP in instances where she has not previously provided such instructions or wishes to use alternative forms of payment. The customer may also indicate if her current selections for food delivery and or payment should be saved STEP as part of her preference profile so they may be presented during subsequent sessions. In some cases the customer may indicate that certain orders e.g. a coffee and bagel are periodic i.e. that she would like that order prepared every weekday for example. If so the system creates a standing order STEP for that customer based on the particular days of the week and times she wishes to pick up her order.

Once a customer s order is received the system determines if payment instructions are associated with the account STEP . If so her account is debited STEP . The account may be debited for example by subtracting the amount due from a current account balance the customer has on file by initiating a credit transaction to the customer s bank account or credit card by adding the amount due to an outstanding account balance for periodic billing for example or by generating an invoice. If no payment preference is on account the order indicates that payment will be due upon pickup.

In addition to payment preference the customer s pickup preference for the order is also received STEP . In some embodiments the customer can indicate a default pickup preference e.g. walk up drive through during registration and the preference may be applied to the particular order. In some cases however the customer may prefer to provide her pick up preference on an order by order preference. In other examples a customer may provide multiple pick up preferences. For example a customer may indicate that she will pick up her periodic order e.g. a weekday morning coffee and bagel using the drive through window but all other orders are picked up at a walk up counter. In other instances the customer may augment already existing pickup preferences. For example the customer may have previously indicated that all orders are picked up at the walk up window but not have specified a particular time.

In implementations in which the system processes orders for multiple locations a customer may indicate a preferred pickup location for certain orders. For example a customer may initiate a breakfast order and have previously attributed a particular pickup location e.g. along her route to work in the morning . Other orders however may be associated with other locations so that customers may pickup orders at whichever location they deem convenient. In certain implementations in which a customer s current location can be determined based for example on a GPS enabled telephone or on board vehicle navigation system the system may suggest a location based on the customer s current location and in some embodiments provide an address telephone number and or directions to the location at the which the order can be picked up. Such a feature is useful in circumstances where a customer is in an unfamiliar area and does not know where a particular location is but wishes to use the system to place an order.

For orders that are to be picked up at some future date and or time orders are scheduled STEP according to the pickup instructions received with the order. For example a customer may place a dinner order at 10 00 am for pick up at 7 00 pm or in some cases have a standing dinner order for every Wednesday night at 7 00 pm . Such orders may be queued for processing such that they are not prepared too far in advance and are freshly prepared when picked up. In other scenarios the system provides a reminder message to the customer prior to preparing an order via the telephone text message email or other similar means.

In certain cases a customer may indicate their current location either manually or automatically via GPS data retrieved from their telephone or automobile based communication system . Based on the current location the system can calculate an estimated arrival time e.g. if the customer is 25 miles away on the highway their arrival would be expected in approximately 20 30 minutes and queue the order for processing accordingly. Once an order is queued it can then be released to the kitchen STEP at the appropriate time.

One flaw of conventional take out operations is the high error rates. Very often customers receive the wrong orders due to miscommunication while ordering errors during preparation or misdelivery customer A receives customer B s order for example . Further because of physical limitations on a restaurant size accessibility etc. a limited number of drive through service windows are available and thus the throughput of the drive through is limited. The time necessary for ordering food waiting for its preparation and or packaging and payment further limits drive through traffic. By accepting orders prior to customer arrival as described above and automatically detecting customers as they arrive using for example sensor based monitoring devices such as RFID stations and or license plate recognition systems located at various locations inside and or outside the store or restaurant the invention significantly increases customer throughput while simultaneously reducing errors.

Referring to and as one example of an implementation of the invention RFID stations are placed at the driveway leading into the parking lot of the restaurant. As a customer drives past the station an RFID tag assigned to the customer enters the operational radius of the station thus detecting the arrival of the customer STEP . The station emits RF energy which upon contact with the tag is reflected back to the station in a manner that indicates the unique code assigned to the tag. Because the tag is uniquely associated with the customer the system matches the orders being prepared at the restaurant with the arriving customer. The system can determine if the customer has a pending order STEP and indicate to the restaurant staff that the order is ready for pickup. In some cases a customer may not have any pending orders but because she previously registered with the system has presented an RFID tag either at a counter or drive through lane and provided her food preferences e.g. medium decaffeinated caf latte her order can be prepared STEP without requiring her to speak to a staff member. In addition or alternatively customers can announce their arrival at the restaurant s location using a messaging device such as a cell phone pager or hand held PDA by calling or messaging a designated phone number or messaging address. In such cases the system automatically recognizes the phone number or source address of the messaging device and can use the number as customer identification information with which it retrieves the customer s order and or order preferences. The order may then be presented to the customer STEP . The customer can either remain in the car and receive delivery of her order pick up her order at a drive through station or park and enter the restaurant to complete the transaction STEP . In some cases RFID stations are also placed at the entry to the restaurant thus alerting restaurant staff that a particular customer has arrived.

In some cases additional customer information name specific preferences previous orders customer feedback response forms etc. is provided to the restaurant staff as the order is given to the customer allowing the staff to greet the customer by name and confirm that any special requests e.g. of course Mr. Smith your extra guacamole is there as you prefer have been attended to. Such personalized service delivered in a quick efficient and accurate manner is a significant improvement over traditional restaurant service.

In addition to improving the ordering and pickup experience for customers maintaining data regarding customer preferences standing orders and trends across locations provides an opportunity to improve inventory management and staffing levels for the locations. For example customer preferences and past behavior may be used to influence what when and how much of certain items the restaurant or store will purchase from distributors to better serve the customers and in the case of perishable goods minimize spoilage. In particular the systems can improve conventional inventory analysis techniques by predicting future orders based on newly entered preferences across a large sample size of customers.

Referring to in one embodiment the food order fulfillment system includes at least one server at least one client and at least one RFID station . In some embodiments the system can accommodate clients of various forms and technologies such as telephones . In some embodiments communication between the server the clients and the RFID stations utilizes a communications network . The order fulfillment system can include any number of clients of various forms including but not limited to computers cell phones PDAs vehicle based displays and the like.

In various embodiments the client includes a web browser that allows the client to request a web page or other downloadable program applet or document e.g. from the server with a web page request. One example of a web page is a data file that includes computer executable or interpretable information graphics sound text and or video that can be displayed executed played processed streamed and or stored and that can contain links or pointers to other web pages. In one embodiment a user of the client manually requests a web page from the server. Alternatively the client automatically makes requests with the web browser. Examples of commercially available web browser software are INTERNET EXPLORER offered by Microsoft Corporation NETSCAPE NAVIGATOR offered by AOL Time Warner and FIREFOX offered by the Mozilla Foundation.

The RFID stations may interact with RFID tags and incorporate RFID technology developed by any number of companies including Texas Instruments and Micron Technology.

The communications network connects the clients and RFID stations with the server . The communication may take place via any media such as standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless links cellular 802.11 Bluetooth etc. and so on. Preferably the network can carry TCP IP protocol communications and HTTP HTTPS requests made by the web browser and the connection between the client and the server can be communicated over such TCP IP networks. The type of network is not a limitation however and any suitable network may be used. Non limiting examples of networks that can serve as or be part of the communications network include a wireless or wired Ethernet based intranet a local or wide area network LAN or WAN and or the global communications network known as the Internet which may accommodate many different communications media and protocols.

The server interacts with the clients and RFID stations . The server is preferably implemented on one or more server class computers that have sufficient memory data storage and processing power and that run a server class operating system e.g. SUN Solaris GNU Linux and the MICROSOFT WINDOWS family of operating systems . Other types of system hardware and software than described herein may also be used depending on the capacity of the device and the number of customers and locations. For example the server may be or may be part of a logical group of one or more servers such as a server farm or server network. As another example there can be multiple servers that may be associated or connected with each other or multiple servers operating independently but with shared data. In a further embodiment and as is typical in large scale systems application software can be implemented in components with different components running on different server computers on the same server or some combination. The server may in some cases provide operational support for multiple restaurants and or grocery stores allowing customers to select a particular location for pickup as well as specific menu or inventory items from each.

Referring to in one embodiment the server includes a client communication module that provides a communication interface with clients and an application server that provides the primary functional logic and instructions for the system. The client communication module can be implemented as software running on one or more servers or may be implemented as a stand alone server. In some embodiments the client communication module can provide an interface to other system modules e.g. an RFID system and or a telephony system and to a client web browser so that for example a web browser can be used by a customer to access her account data and place orders. The interface to each of the other system modules and client web browsers can be implemented separately or in combination. In other embodiments the client communication module can also communicate using other protocols or mechanisms. In various embodiments the communication module facilitates HTTP S requests and responses Java messages SOAP messages SMTP messages POP3 messages instant messages RSS feeds as well as other electronic messages exchanged among customers restaurant staff grocery store clerks as well as others. In some embodiments the communication module is or operates as part of the server whereas in other cases the communication server may be a separate server which may be operated by and or outsourced to an application service provider ASP internet service provider ISP or other third party.

The client communication module communicates with the application server which provides the main programming logic for the operation of the system. In one embodiment the application server is implemented as one or more application programs running on a server class computer which may be the same or different computer as the client communication module . The application server receives registration requests order requests RFID event notifications and voice response commands via the client communication module . The application server also provides the infrastructure for implementing the customized remote ordering capabilities described above. For example the application server determines a customer s preferences and presents her with a tailored menu or inventory list to the customer from which she can select her groceries food etc. As another example in some embodiments the application server may provide additional logic for determining arrival times of customers scheduling orders inventory control nearest order pickup locations and order routing.

The server in some embodiments also includes a database module which stores data related to the restaurants stores menu items inventory lists customers orders RFID tags and the like in one or more databases. For instance the database module may store information relating to the purchase histories of the customers nutritional information about the menu items payment information advertisements and user information. The database module provides data to the application server for inclusion in messages web pages stored procedures and applications both residing on the client and or the server . The data can in some instances be stored in one or more databases. The database module can also store data relating the use and performance of the system itself such as server availability logging information and web traffic information. Examples of database applications that can be used to implement the database module include MySQL Database Server by MySQL AB of Uppsala Sweden the PostgreSQL Database Server by the PostgreSQL Global Development Group of Berkeley Calif. and the ORACLE Database Server offered by ORACLE Corp. of Redwood Shores Calif.

In one embodiment the client communication module includes a system interface server that provides an interface for communications with sub systems such as an RFID system and or a voice recognition telephony system. In one embodiment the client interface server is a software module executing on the server . In another embodiment the system interface server is a stand alone server computer in communication with other components of the server such as the application server . In one embodiment the system interface server communicates with other sub systems using a messaging protocol that runs over TCP IP for communications between sub systems and the client interface server . The system interface server may utilize various interfaces and or services for exchanging data with the sub systems. For example the RFID sub system may include an application programming interface API through which the system can receive event notifications that a customer has arrived at a particular location. In other examples the telephony system may operate as a web service thereby allowing other systems such as the system interface server to subscribe to the service and receive data and events using XML SOAP WSSL UDI as well as other forms of data transfer.

In some embodiments the server and client communicate via a web browser that resides on the customer s device. In such an embodiment the communication module includes a web server . The web server delivers web pages to the client and provides an interface for communications between the web browser and the server . Preferably the web server is an enterprise class web server such as APACHE from the APACHE FOUNDATION INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER from MICROSOFT CORPORATION or NETSCAPE ENTERPRISE SERVER from NETSCAPE COMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION running on one or more server class computers which may be the same or different computers than the client interface server . The web server may be implemented as any communications device that is capable of serving web content to client web browsers over the communications network and communicating with the other parts of the server such as a personal computer web appliance and so on. The web server and the system interface server are each in communication with the application server .

Although described above as independent subsystems and modules this is for exemplary purposes only and these subsystems and modules may alternatively be combined into one or more modules or subsystems. Moreover one or more of the subsystems described above may be remotely located from other modules e.g. executing on another server in a server farm . Likewise the system can be implemented with one or any number of servers connections and interactive network components.

Referring to in one embodiment a billing information screen includes fields into which a customer may enter billing information and preferences. For example a customer can provide credit card information that can be used to automatically credit their account for each order.

Referring to in one embodiment an express pass request screen allows customers to request wireless transponders that when in the presence of a RFID sensor announce the arrival of the customer at the restaurant or store. The screen includes fields in which customers can select the type and quality of devices as well as a field indicating their preferred method of obtaining the device. In some cases the transponder may be vehicle based e.g. a sticker mounted device a card or a key fob device that customers can carry in their purse or on a keychain. The transponders can be uniquely associated with a customer or in some cases assigned to a group of customers such as a family or corporate account.

Referring to in one embodiment an item preference screen allows customers to select items and item preferences to add as favorite items. For some items certain choices may be required such as the type of bagel or size of coffee. Other preferences may also be noted such as whether a bagel is toasted the type of side that will accompany an order e.g. potato salad chips pasta salad etc. . A free form text entry field may be used to capture any additional customer preferences not typically associated with an item e.g. extra cream cheese double cupping coffee etc. Quantity and order fields allow the customer to indicate the number of items she wishes to include in the order and which of her pre defined orders to which the items are to be added. In some embodiments a customer can specify multiple different orders using names they chose e.g. breakfast weekdays breakfast weekends dinner weekdays lunch weekdays chicken lunch meatloaf dinner etc. and may wish to include certain items on multiple orders and or alter certain items on some orders. For example a customer may indicate that the weekday breakfast order is to include a small coffee and one plain bagel with cream cheese but on the weekend order two large coffees and two bagels. By maintaining customer specific orders and allowing the customers to periodically alter the orders as new menu items are introduced the system can present a customer with her pre defined orders streamline the ordering process and build a loyal customer base. The item screen also includes an order quantity field and checkout button that allow the customer to order the item on an ad hoc basis.

Referring to in one embodiment an order management screen provides customers with links and buttons with which the customers can review their standing orders delete the orders or reprioritize the orders such that they are presented in a different sequence. For example a customer may have previously indicated that the chicken lunch as her favorite order and as such it was presented as the first option when she contacted the order system e.g. the 1 option when using telephone based data entry . However after weeks of ordering the chicken dinner her preference may change and by reprioritizing her orders can affect the order in which her orders are presented to her during the ordering process.

Referring to in one embodiment a pickup screen provides customers with text fields and selection boxes that facilitate the scheduling of an order. For example a customer may indicate that a particular order is to be picked up at a particular date and time. In other embodiments a customer can indicate that an order is periodic e.g. a coffee and bagel every weekday at 7 00 am and provide the particular days of the week and time the order is to be picked up. Selection box allows the customer to select from one of the payment methods currently active for her account.

Although described here with reference to restaurants and useful when implemented with regard to fulfilling orders from customers the subject matter can be any sort of product delivery based activity. For example grocery delivery services currently allow customers to order items over the Internet however the items are then delivered to the customer s home or business. While convenient in some instances in other cases it may be advantageous to provide pickup service in which a customer visits the store to pickup her order. Likewise consumer goods such as clothing electronics and office supplies to name just a few exemplary items may also be provided using similar techniques.

Variations modifications and other implementations of what is described herein will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention as claimed. Accordingly the invention is to be defined not by the preceding illustrative description but instead by the spirit and scope of the following claims.

