---

title: Analyte detection using nanowires produced by on-wire lithography
abstract: The present invention relates to methods of detecting analytes using nanowires having nanodisk arrays. In particular, the present invention discloses methods of detecting analytes via surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) and employing nanowires prepared using on-wire lithography (OWL).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07466406&OS=07466406&RS=07466406
owner: Northwestern University
number: 07466406
owner_city: Evanston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060310
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 661 659 filed Mar. 14 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 741 692 filed Dec. 2 2005.

This invention was made with government support under Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA and Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR grant No. FA9550 05 1 0348 and National Science Foundation grants No. EEC 0118025 and No. DMR 0076097. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to methods of using nanowires and Raman spectroscopy to detect an analyte. In particular the present invention relates to on wire lithographic methods of forming nanodisk arrays and methods of using these nanodisk arrays in Raman spectroscopy detection of an analyte.

Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering SERS was first demonstrated in 1977 Jeanmaire et al. 84 1 1977 . SERS significantly increased the magnitude of a Raman scattering signal by functionalizing a molecule onto a rough metal surface Haynes et al. 77 338A 2005 . It also has been reported that using metal nanoparticles as substrates in SERS provided for 10increased signal Kniepp et al. 78 1667 1997 and Nie et al. 275 1102 1997 . This advancement made single molecule detection possible and showed promise in biological detection applications Cao et al. 297 1536 2002 Cao et al. 125 14676 2003 and Doering et al. 75 6171 2003 . In the investigation of single molecule and single particle SERS researchers have found that some particles demonstrated a much higher enhancement which were labeled hot spots. Although researchers in the field reported the identification of various Raman hot spots no work has reported a systematic study of Raman hot spots.

Substrates previously used for SERS applications include roughened metal surfaces such as those reported in U.S. Pat. No. 6 970 239. No control over the roughened surface or of the porous characteristics of the metal surface was disclosed. Because the porosity of the metal surface is theorized to be a major factor in the enhancement of Raman scattering control over the characteristics of the metal surface is needed both to better understand the role porosity plays in the enhancement and to provide optimum surface characteristics for SERS detection of analytes. Optimization may provide an ability to detect small even single molecule amounts of an analyte of interest.

The present invention relates to methods of detecting analytes employing nanowires having nanodisk arrays.

Therefore one aspect of the present invention is to provide methods for detecting the presence and or concentration of an analyte of interest in a sanple using nanowires having nanodisk arrays and various spectroscopy techniques. The nanowires are synthesized using on wire lithography OWL such that the nanodisk thicknesses and the gaps between the nanodisks are precisely controlled to achieve a highly ordered and tailorable nanowire. Depending upon the analyte of interest the nanowire can be specifically tuned for detection of that analyte. The analyte of interest can be detected either directly or indirectly via a detection reagent or probe. In some embodiments the spectroscopic method employed is Raman spectroscopy and the nanowire enables surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS . In other embodiments the spectroscopic method is fluorescence. Microwave detection can also be used.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a kit comprising nanowires having different nanodisk arrays such that different analytes of interest can be detected by selection of a proper nanowire. In some embodiments the kit comprises nanowires having repeating units of nanodisk arrays having the same characteristics e.g. disk thickness gap spacing between disks and separation spacing between nanodisk arrays in addition to a plurality of nanowires having different characteristics from one another. In other embodiments the kit comprises nanowires having different nanodisk arrays along the same nanowire. The kit also can comprise nanowires having repeating nanodisk arrays and nanowires of varying nanodisk arrays.

The present invention is directed to methods of detecting analytes using spectroscopy methods such as Raman fluorescence UV and the like. The following disclosure is primarily directed to Raman but can be readily extended to other spectroscopic methods. More particularly the present invention provides methods of detecting analytes via Raman spectroscopy using nanodisk arrays having various electronic chemical and physical characteristics. Nanodisk arrays having the appropriate characteristics allow for the enhancement of Raman signals. The enhanced Raman signal can be correlated to the presence or concentration of an analyte in a test sample.

When certain molecules are illuminated a small percentage of the molecules which have retained a photon do not return to their original vibrational level after remitting the retained photon but drop to a different vibrational level of the ground electronic state. The radiation emitted from these molecules is at a different energy and hence a different wavelength. This is referred to as Raman scattering.

If the molecule drops to a higher vibrational level of the ground electronic state the photon emitted is at a lower energy or longer wavelength than that retained. This is referred to as Stokes shifted Raman scattering. If a molecule is already at a higher vibrational state before it retains a photon it can impart this extra energy to the remitted photon thereby returning to the ground state. In this case the radiation emitted is of higher energy and shorter wavelength and is called anti Stokes shifted Raman scattering. In any set of molecules under normal conditions the number of molecules at ground state is always much greater than those at an excited state so the odds of an incident photon hitting an excited molecule and being scattered with more energy than it carried upon collision is very small. Therefore photon scattering at frequencies higher than that of the incident photons anti Stokes frequencies is minor relative to that at frequencies lower than that of the incident photons Stokes frequencies . Consequently it is the Stokes frequencies that are usually analyzed.

The amount of energy lost to or gained from a molecule in this way is quantized resulting in scattered photons having discrete wavelength shifts. These wavelength shifts can be measured by a spectrometer. Raman spectroscopy is one useful analytical tool to identify certain molecules and as a means of studying molecular structure. Other useful spectroscopic methods include fluorescence infrared nuclear magnetic resonance and the like.

A significant increase in the intensity of Raman light scattering can be observed when molecules are brought into close proximity to but not necessarily in contact with certain metal surfaces. The increase in intensity can be on the order of several million fold or more and has been coined surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS .

The cause of the SERS effect is not completely understood. However at least two separate factors have been identified as contributing to SERS. First metal surfaces often contain minute irregularities which can be thought of as spheres. Those irregularities having diameters of approximately 1 10th the wavelength of the incident light are considered to contribute most to the effect. The incident photons induce a field across the particles which have very mobile electrons due to the nature of metals .

In certain configurations of metal surfaces or particles groups of surface electrons can be made to oscillate in a collective fashion in response to an applied oscillating electromagnetic field. Such a group of collectively oscillating electrons is called a plasmon. The incident photons supply this oscillating electromagnetic field. The induction of an oscillating dipole moment in a molecule by incident light is the source of the Raman scattering. The effect of the resonant oscillation of the surface plasmons is to cause a large increase in the electromagnetic field strength in the vicinity of the metal surface. This results in an enhancement of the oscillating dipole induced in the scattering molecule and hence increases the intensity of the Raman scattered light. The effect is to increase the apparent intensity of the incident light in the vicinity of the particles.

A second factor contributing to the SERS effect is molecular imaging. A molecule having a dipole moment and in close proximity to a metallic surface will induce an image of itself on that surface of opposite polarity i.e. a shadow dipole on the plasmon . The proximity of that image is thought to enhance the ability of the molecules to scatter light. The coupling of a molecule having an induced or distorted dipole moment due to the surface plasmons greatly enhances the excitation probability and results in an increase in the efficiency of Raman light scattered by the surface absorbed molecules.

The SERS effect can be enhanced through combination with the resonance Raman effect. The surface enhanced Raman scattering effect is even more intense if the frequency of the excitation light is in resonance with a major absorption band of the molecule being illuminated. The resultant Surface Enhanced Resonance Raman Scattering SERRS effect can result in an enhancement in the intensity of the Raman scattering signal of seven orders of magnitude or more.

On wire lithography OWL is a nanofabrication strategy which is capable of achieving 2.5 nm and in some instances 1 nm resolution and 20 nm feature size on a nanowire. OWL provides a method for producing nanodisk arrays which can be used for SERS applications. The nanodisk array substrate can have several features that make it a unique SERS substrate including easy functionalization on a single nanowire easy homogeneous suspension in dye solutions for SERS studies and large surface area and chemical potential for functionalization. The high resolution and flexibility of the nanodisk array allows for systematic study of plasmon resonance of the particles. The use of substrates obtained via OWL reduces the potential effect of imperfections on the metal surface thereby allowing for a focused study on the molecular imaging effect. No other lithography technique has provided substrates for a SERS study that allows for this type of systematic study.

As used herein nanorods refers to small structures that are less than 10 m and preferably less than 5 m in any one dimension and that have a length to width ratio greater than one. The nanorods used in the present invention are multicomponent in nature. As used herein multicomponent refers to an entity that comprises more than one type of material. For example a multicomponent nanorod refers to a nanorod having sections of different materials e.g. a nanorod with one or more Au segments and one or more Ni segments.

The metal component of the nanorod can be any metal compatible with in situ electrochemical deposition. Examples of such metals include but are not limited to indium tin oxide titanium platinum titanium tungstide gold silver nickel copper and mixtures thereof.

A nanowire interchangeably referred to as a gapped nanowire is a nanorod that has been subjected to etching to remove certain metal segments and leave behind others. shows a nanowire with its various components. These nanowires have electronic properties that can be tailored from their compositional components i.e. the identities of the metals forming the nanorod . The use of metals having different chemical and electrical properties allows the creation of gaps in these nanowires when the nanowire is treated with a solution that dissolves one metal of the nanorod while the other metal is unaffected. In these nanogaps are useful in producing nanodisk arrays of various thicknesses that can be used to assess electromagnetic response for SERS experiments.

A nanodisk array is a series of metal segments i.e. nanodisks separated by a gap. A nanodisk array is shown in . In some cases the gap is between about 2 nm and about 500 nm. Other gap ranges contemplated include in the range of about 5 and about 160 nm. Specific examples of gap sizes include 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 140 145 150 160 170 180 190 200 210 220 230 240 250 260 270 280 290 300 310 320 330 340 350 360 370 380 390 400 410 420 430 440 450 460 470 480 490 and 500 nm. In other cases the gap is greater than 500 nm. Gaps up to an including 2 m may also be incorporated into a nanodisk array.

The metal segments remaining after etching form nanodisks as illustrated in . Disk thicknesses for nanodisks include but are not limited to ranges of about 20 nm to about 500 nm about 40 nm to about 250 nm and about 50 nm to about 120 nm. Specific disk thickness contemplated for use in the present invention include 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 140 145 150 155 160 165 170 175 180 185 190 195 200 205 210 215 220 225 230 235 240 245 250 255 260 265 270 275 280 285 290 295 300 310 320 330 340 350 360 370 380 390 400 410 420 430 440 450 460 470 480 490 and 500 nm. In some cases the disk thickness of the nanodisk is at least 500 nm and can be up to 2 m.

A series of nanodisk arrays having different characteristics e.g. disk thickness and gap size may be present on the same nanowire. Separation of the nanodisk arrays on a nanowire is achieved using separation gaps as illustrated in . The length of a separation gap is dependent upon the size of the nanodisk array. Typically a separation gap is at least two times greater preferably three times greater than the total length of a nanodisk array. For example a nanodisk array composed of two 120 nm disks separated by a 50 nm gap can be separated from a second nanodisk array by a separation gap of about 1 m. For nanodisk arrays having larger disk thickness and gaps larger separation gaps are needed. Nanodisk arrays of varying characteristics on the same nanowire are illustrated for example in .

The number of gaps in a nanodisk array can vary. At least one gap must be present in a nanodisk array. Gaps numbering from 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and 10 can all be incorporated into a nanodisk array. The number of gaps in a nanodisk array determines the number of nanodisks in the array. For example one gap correlates to two nanodisks two gaps correlate to three nanodisk and three gaps to four nanodisks.

As used herein the term sacrificial metal refers to a metal that can be dissolved under the proper chemical conditions. Examples of sacrificial metals include but are not limited to nickel which is dissolved by nitric acid and silver which is dissolved by a methanol ammonia hydrogen peroxide mixture.

As used herein the term etching refers to a process of dissolving a sacrificial metal segment using conditions suitable for dissolving or removing the metal comprising the sacrificial segment. As mentioned above such etching solutions include but are not limited to nitric acid and a methanol ammonia hydrogen peroxide mixture.

As used herein coating refers to a material that is positioned to contact one side of a multicomponent nanorod prior to the etching step. The purpose of the coating is to provide a bridging substrate to hold segments of the etched nanorod i.e. a nanowire together after removal of the intervening sacrificial metal segments in the etching process. Nonlimiting examples of coatings used in this invention include a gold titanium alloy and silica. A coating with a gold titanium alloy allows for the nanowire to conduct an electrical current whereas a silica coating electrically isolates the various nanodisk arrays from each other. Other backings may be chosen to provide other electrical chemical or physical characteristics to the nanowire depending upon the end use of the nanowire.

The effect of electromagnetic field on SERS can be studied using the OWL generated nanodisk arrays. OWL is based upon manufacturing segmented nanowires comprising at least two materials one that is susceptible to and one that is resistant to wet chemical etching. There are a variety of material pairs that can be used. Au Ag and Au Ni are two such examples of metal pairs of differing chemical properties. The sacrificial metal in these pairs are Ag and Ni respectively. However any combination of metals having contrasting susceptibility to chemical etching conditions may be used.

The surfaces of nanodisks are clean i.e. free from contamination of stabilizing surfactants or other organic chemicals because the OWL synthetic process uses nitric acid which removes essentially all organic compounds from the surface of the nanodisks. This clean surface allows for better functionalization and also decreases Raman scattering noise attributed to surface contaminants. Detection of small analyte concentrations or probe molecules therefore is enhanced due to the decreased scattering noise and tailorable functionalization of the nanodisks.

Different metals can be incorporated into the nanodisks by simple modifications to the synthesis. Nonlimiting examples of metals that can be incorporated include silver Ag gold Au and copper Cu which are particularly useful as SERS substrates. SERS substrates are interchangeably referred to as SERS active substrates herein.

The presence of photoexcitable surface plasmons in a substrate is generally considered necessary for surface enhancement. In order for surface plasmons to surface so that plasmon emission can exhibit a SERS effect surface plasmons must be localized so that their resident energy is not dispersed. Suitable SERS substrates include but are not limited to the nanogap wires nanodisk arrays produced via OWL.

In an analysis of a sample containing or suspected of containing an analyte of interest the sample is attached onto a SERS active substrate i.e. a nanowire . An analyte can be attached to the SERS active surface by direct adsorption adsorption through a linker arm covalently attached to the analyte or by the covalent attachment of the analyte to a detection reagent or probe on the SERS active surface directly through a linker arm or by intercalation of the distal portion of a linker arm into the enhancing surface. A radiation source is selected to generate radiation having a wavelength that causes appreciable Raman scattering in the presence of the analyte being measured. Although it is known that Raman scattering occurs at all wavelengths the radiation typically employed will be near infrared radiation because ultraviolet radiation often causes fluorescence.

Detection of an analyte can proceed either directly or in combination with a detection reagent or probe. In certain cases the analyte does not have an appreciable Raman scattering cross section and a detection reagent or probe is needed to provide sufficient Raman scattering for detection. The detection reagent or probe can be a molecule having one or more preferably ally of the following properties a a strong absorption band in the vicinity of an excitation wavelength extinction coefficient near 10or greater b a functional group which will enable it to be covalently or non covalently bound to an analyte of interest c photostability d sufficient surface and resonance enhancement to allow detection limits of at least 10 g and preferably in the subnanogram range e minimal exhibition of strong fluorescence emission at the excitation wave length used usually denoted as having a large Stokes shift and f a relatively simple scattering pattern with a few intense peaks. When more than one label is used it is preferred that the labels having spectral patterns which do not interfere with one another e.g. overlap so several indicator molecules can be analyzed simultaneously. In some embodiments spectral overlap is a desired characteristic because the emission spectrum from one detection reagent or probe can overlap the excitation spectrum of another exciting the first detection reagent or probe and resulting in a pumping of the second.

Examples of detection reagents or probes include but are not limited to 4 4 aminophenylazo phenylarsonic acid monosodium salt arsenazo I basic fuchsin Chicago sky blue direct red 81 disperse orange 3 2 4 hydroxyphenylazo benzoic acid HABA erythrosin B trypan blue ponceau S ponceau SS 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene methylene blue MB and p dimethylaminoazobenzene PMA . In some embodiments the detection reagent or probe can be covalently attached to the analyte of interest. In other embodiments the detection reagent or probe can be non covalently attached to the analyte of interest e.g. via hybridization pi stacking hydrogen bonding van der Waals interactions chelation and the like.

The radiation source can be any source that provides the necessary wavelength to excite the analyte or detection reagent or probe for detection using Raman spectroscopy. Typically a laser serves as the excitation source. The laser may be of an inexpensive type such as a helium neon or diode laser. In some embodiments a narrow bandwidth high frequency amplitude and modal stability and no sidebands or harmonics are important characteristics of the laser. Lamps also can be used. The radiation sources used can be monochromatic or polychromatic and also can be of high intensity. In one embodiment the radiation source provides a high enough photon flux that the Raman transitions of the analyte or detection reagent or probe are saturated in order to maximize the SERS signal.

Several methods are available for detecting Raman scattering. These methods generally can be used with different types of spectrometers. In SERS the primary measurement is one of light scattering intensity at particular wavelengths. SERS requires measuring wavelength shifted scattering intensity in the presence of an intense background from the excitation beam. The use of a Raman active substance having a large Stokes shift simplifies this measurement. Methods for further simplifying the readout instrument are contemplated such as the use of wavelength selective mirrors or holographic optical elements for scattered light collection.

Neither the angle of the incident light beam to the surface nor the position of the detector is critical for SERS analysis. With flat surfaces positioning the surface of the excitation source at 60 degrees to the normal is typical and detection at either 90 degrees or 180 degrees to the source is standard. SERS excitation can be performed in the near infrared range which minimizes excitation of intrinsic sample fluorescence. SERS based ligand binding assays using evanescent waves propagated by optical waveguides can also be performed. For non flat surfaces the wavelength and angle are important and give rise to scattering.

No signal development time is required as readout begins immediately upon illumination and data can be collected for as long as desired without decay of signal unless the excitation light is extremely intense and chemical changes occur. Unlike fluorescent readout systems SERS reporter groups will not self quench so the signal can be enhanced by increasing the number of Raman active reagent molecules. Fluorescent molecules near the SERS active surface will actually be surface quenched. The SERS effect can be excited by direct illumination of the surface or by evanescent waves from a waveguide beneath the plasmon active surface.

The nanodisk array characteristics also can be tuned to provide means for detecting analytes using other spectroscopic means. Smaller disk thicknesses e.g. less than 400 nm and gaps e.g. less than 100 nm are more suitable for optics detection Raman spectroscopy fluorescence and the like while larger disk thicknesses e.g. between about 500 nm and about 2 m and gaps e.g. between about 100 nm and about 1 m are more suitable for microwave applications. Depending upon the excitation and detection method the nanodisk array of the nanowire can be tailored to provide optimum characteristics. In one embodiment the spacing of the nanodisk arrays are set at odd multiples of one fourth the wavelength in order to produce a resonant cavity that enhances the field strength even multiples do not enhance but rather suppress emissions.

In another embodiment the nanowires are selected to enhance a fluorescence signal of an analyte or a detection reagent or probe. In some cases the fluorescence of the detectable molecule either the analyte of interest or a detection reagent or probe is measured. In this case the fluorescence signal indicates the presence or absence of an analyte. The excitation and emission wavelengths are selected based upon the characteristics of the fluorescent moiety to be detected. In the case where a detection reagent or probe is needed e.g. the analyte of interest is not fluorescent then the wavelengths are selected such that the detection reagent or probe can fluoresce. The nanodisk array characteristics e.g. disk thickness and gap size are selected to enhance the fluorescent signal of the analyte or detection reagent or probe. The selection of the nanowire having the proper nanodisk array is readily performed by persons skilled in the art using simple trial techniques. For example in one embodiment the characteristics are calculated based upon the wavelengths of radiation and the effective refractive index of the medium between the nanodisks.

In order to determine the concentration of an analyte in a test sample it is necessary to correlate a measured signal to the analyte concentration. Quantification can be accomplished either by inclusion of known concentrations of one or more molecules for example an internal standard or by referencing the signal intensity of an unknown amount of an analyte of interest with a standard curve generated from measurement of known amounts of that analyte. Techniques well known to those of skill in the art can be used in the creation of a standard curve and in the calculations of the concentration of the analyte of interest.

In accordance with an important feature of the present invention a kit comprising two or more items useful for practicing a method of the invention is provided. For example in one variation the kit comprises containers having a detection reagents or probes or b a plurality of nanowires wherein each nanowire comprises at least one nanodisk array. In some embodiments the nanowire comprises repeating units of the same nanodisk array. In other embodiments the nanowire comprises nanodisk arrays of different properties e.g. different disk thicknesses different gap sizes and or different coatings. Regardless of the type of nanowire the nanodisk arrays are separated from each other by distances sufficient to isolate each disk array from an adjacent nanodisk array. In some cases the kit further comprises a container having detection reagents or probes such as 4 4 aminophenylazo phenylarsonic acid monosodium salt arsenazo I basic fuchsin Chicago sky blue direct red 81 disperse orange 3 HABA erythrosin B trypan blue ponceau S ponceau SS 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene MB and PMA. In certain cases it is not necessary to know the optimal properties for detection of the analyte of interest because a plurality of nanodisk arrays are provided along the same nanowire or in a mixture of nanowires of different properties. Exposure to the appropriate excitation wavelength results in SERS on a nanowire having a nanodisk array with characteristics compatible with those of the analyte of interest.

In another aspect of the present invention the nanowires can be used for any application wherein field intensification caused by a plasmon resonance and or a controlled tuned cavity is useful. Such applications include photonic crystal technologies fluorescence measurements and coupler translator applications. In some cases the nanowires are constructed such that the spacing between nanodisks is suitable for microwave wavelengths. In other cases the spacing is suitable for infrared wavelengths and in still other cases the spacing is suitable for visible or ultraviolet wavelengths.

The disclosed nanowires can be used in photonic crystals. Photonic crystals are processed materials with periodic spatial variations of the dielectric constant. Based on a Bragg reflection electromagnetic waves having defined frequency ranges cannot pass through the photonic crystal and therefore no resonant modes can occur. These frequency intervals are referred to as photonic band gaps. The energy does not spread in predefined directions within this stop band. In other words photonic crystals are artificial crystal structures that have an effect on electromagnetic waves that is similar to the effect a semiconductor crystal has on electronic waves. Light propagation in a photonic crystal can be controlled based on the material and the photonic crystal structure. As the nanowires of the present invention have periodic structures they can be used as photonic crystals.

Additional aspects and details of the invention will be apparent from the following examples which are intended to be illustrative rather than limiting.

The metal segments are electrochemically deposited in porous alumina templates in a controlled fashion from suitable plating solutions via well established methods Martin 266 1961 1994 Routkevitch et al 100 14037 1996 Nicewamer Pena et al 294 137 2001 Kowtyukhova et al 8 4354 2002 . The length of each segment is tailored by controlling the charge passed during the electrodeposition process. The resulting multi metallic wires then are released from the template by dissolution of the template via known procedures Park et al 303 348 2004 .

In one example an aqueous suspension of Au Ni nanorods is cast upon a glass microscope slide pre treated with a piranha solution which makes the slide more hydrophilic. After drying a layer of silicon dioxide is deposited on the nanorods using plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . This resulted in one side of the nanorod being coated with silicon dioxide while the other side which is protected by the microscope slide substrate remained uncoated. Sonication of the substrate leads to the release of the coated nanorods into solution. The final step of the OWL process involves the selective wet chemical etching of the sacrificial segments.

Nickel segments can be removed from the rods by treating the rods with concentrated nitric acid for one hour hr . This results in the generation of nanowire structures with gaps precisely controlled by the length of the original Ni segments. The Au segments remaining after removal of the Ni segments are held in place by the stripe of silicon dioxide. Because silicon dioxide is an insulator the Au segments are electrically isolated from one another. Alternatively the Au segments can be electrically connected to one another by coating the nanowires with Au Ti rather than silicon dioxide in this process.

In another alternative the nanorods are comprised of Au and Ag segments the sacrificial Ag segments are removed by treating the coated nanorods with an etching solution containing methanol 30 ammonium hydroxide and 30 hydrogen peroxide 4 1 1 v v v for one hour. Numerous other combinations of materials and etchants can likewise be used for such purposes depending upon the intended use of the structures formed.

Synthesis of Nanowires Multi segment nanorods composed of Ni and Au segments were synthesized using electrochemical deposition into a porous alumina membrane. A thin layer of Ag 200 m was evaporated on one side of an alumina filter Whatman International Ltd d 13 mm pore size 20 nm the pore diameter in the central region of the filter is substantially larger than the quoted 20 nm and served as a cathode in a three electrode chemical cell after making physical contact with aluminum foil. Platinum wire was used as a counter electrode and Ag AgCl was used as the reference electrode. The nanopores were partially filled with Ag leaving headroom to accommodate the growth of additional domains Technic ACR silver RTU solution from Technic Inc. at a constant potential 0.9 V vs. Ag AgCl by passing 1.5 C cmfor 30 minutes. An Au segment then was electroplated from Orotemp 24 RTU solution Technic Inc. at 0.9 V vs. Ag AgCl followed by a Ni segment from nickel sulfamate RTU solution Technic Inc. at 0.9 V vs. Ag AgCl. The procedure involving Au was repeated to form a second Au segment. Each segment length was controlled by monitoring the charge passed through the membrane. The first 1.4 m 0.2 long segment of Au was generated by passing 1.3 C. The Ag backing and the alumina membrane then were dissolved with concentrated nitric acid and 3 M sodium hydroxide solutions respectively. The rods were repeatedly rinsed with nanopure water until the solution reached at pH of 7. Nanorods containing more than three segments are prepared by repeating the above steps until the desired number of segments have been constructed. These added segments may be constructed of the same or different materials than the materials used in the construction of the initial three segments by appropriate selection of the plating materials and conditions in the manner known to those of skill in the art.

Preparation of Segmented Nanorods Composed of Gold Au and Nickel Ni was achieved using electrochemical synthesis. The design of the structures was devised to incorporate specific distances between similar nanodisks and to separate different nanodisks beyond the diffraction of the excitation wavelength. This spatial separation allowed for discrete measurement and observation of individual classes of nanodisks.

Multi segment nanorods and nanodisk arrays were prepared according to reported methods Qin L. et al 309 113 115 2005 . The applied charge during electrochemical deposition was controlled to achieve designed nanorod structures. Charge and length of each sample are shown in Table 1. The resulting structures were measured by SEM B and A F .

The length of the segments of nanowires obeys Faraday s law of electrolysis See Qin L. et al 309 113 115 2005 supporting online materials . For a specific example herein in deposition of Ni segments was controlled to adjust the distance between the gold nanodisks. Charges were applied for 1.332 C 0.666 C 0.251 C 0.080 C and 0.040 C during electrochemical deposition Table 1 . The resulting lengths of Ni segments were 160 nm 80 nm 30 nm 15 nm and 5 nm respectively. also shows that the dark stripes between the bright regions are thinner and thinner from bottom left to upper right.

Details for the production of the nanowires in are tabulated in the following table wherein the amount of charge for the electrochemical deposition of the metal segments is reported in Coulombs C and the corresponding length of each metal segment is also reported. There are two different types of Ni segments one for the gaps between the Au disks and one which allows for the physical separation of the various nanodisks. The role that each Ni segment plays in the final nanowire is indicated by the color coding of the table cell Au is grey shaded cell no shading is Ni segments that are etched away to form gaps between Au disks and Ni segments that are etched away to spatially separate nanodisk arrays of different properties are black shaded.

Gapped nanowires having gold nanodisks and a silicon dioxide coating were prepared using OWL then were mixed with 1 M methylene blue MB a Raman active molecule in ethanol and stirred overnight. The solution was centrifuged and redispersed in ethanol five times to remove any non dissociated MB. The resulting gold nanowires coated with a self assembled monolayer of MB were concentrated by centrifugation and dried onto a pirhana pretreated glass substrate.

Using a scanning Raman microscope Raman scattering of the substrates was obtained by monitoring the strong Raman band at 1621 cmand reconstructing the image pixel by pixel. The incident laser wavelength was 633 nm. In situ optical images were also taken which provided position and orientation information for the gapped nanowires.

The Raman microscopy results see and shows that scattering from disks separated by nanosize gaps is dramatically more intense than from disks without a gap. The difference in Raman intensities between two disks with one gap and five disks with four gaps was not significant although the spot area for structures with four gaps is larger than those with one gap due to the larger overall surface area for the latter see and .

A systematic study of gap number disk thickness and gap size dependence of SERS intensities was carried out. B and C present SEM images of Au Ni mulicomponent nanowires. After performing OWL the corresponding gapped nanowires were obtained as shown in E and F. The SEM images provided more precise sizes in and than in and due to the charges accumulated on the coated SiOlayer during electron beam scanning.

A Raman scattering investigation was carried out with the structures of . The resulting images are shown in . B and C are 2 D Raman scattering images and E and F are the corresponding 3 D images. The insets in B and C show the structural information for the corresponding Au disks.

Raman spectra and images were recorded with a confocal Raman microscope CRM200 WiTec equipped with a piezo scanner and 100 microscope objectives NA 0.90 Nikon . Spatial resolution is as high as 400 nm in this experiment.

Samples were excited with a He Ne laser 632.8 nm Coherent Inc. with a spot size of about 1 m and a power density of about 10W cmincident on the samples. For a typical Raman image with a scan range of 10 m 10 m complete Raman spectra were acquired on every pixel with an integration time of 0.1 second s per spectrum and an image resolution of 100 pixel 100 pixel. To provide a careful analysis of the enhanced Raman scattering signal of MB on the sample features all images in the figures were processed by integrating the intensity of the Raman spectra at 1621 cm. The SERS spectra of both MB and pMA with different concentrations were obtained with 1 second integration time. MB shows a strong absorption band at about 655 nm which increases the SERS signal intensity under excitation at 632.8 nm.

The laser excitation wavelength was at 633 mm which is close to the absorption energy of the MB molecule. As shown in four bright spots were easily observable which correspond to the Raman scattering signals from the nanodisk arrays having one two three and four gaps. The spot sizes became larger when gap number increased due to the larger gap areas and therefore increased number of dye molecules in locations with larger SERS enhancements. The signal for two disks with one gap was 167 times higher than that from one disk without a gap. This provided significant insight into the electromagnetic mechanism of SERS and facilitated the design of SERS substrates indicating that a gap is important to the ability of a metal surface to enhance Raman scattering.

The influence of particle size and gap distance on SERS intensities also was investigated. The disk thickness dependence of the intensities is shown in . The disk gap was fixed at 30 mm with disk thicknesses varying from 40 to 160 nm. A single disk with a 40 nm thickness was also included at one end of the structure as a control. A 2 D image showed five spots of Raman scattering signals from the Au disks with different size and an identical gap distance . The spot from the 120 20 nm Au disks showed the maximum enhanced Raman scattering signal. The 3 D image in revealed the differences more clearly.

In the disk thickness was fixed at 120 mm and the gap distances varied from 5 to 160 mm The intensities of the spots in the 2 D images increased initially peaked at the 30 nm gap distance then declined with increasing gap distance. The corresponding 3 D image shows how the peak intensity changes with disk spacing.

A theoretical treatment of the Au nanodisks was also performed. The local electric fields E between two cylindrical gold nanodisks in vacuum was calculated using the discrete dipole approximation DDA method. Kelly et al. 107 668 2003 The SiOfilm was not included in the calculations. The working wavelength in calculating the enhanced local electric fields between the Au nanodisks was chosen to be the excitation wavelength of 633 nm in order to mimic the experiments performed with MB. The results with 669 nm the mean of the incident and Stokes shifted wavelengths also was investigated and the results were similar. The grid size used in the DDA program was 5 nm. The polarizations both parallel and perpendicular to the interdimer axis were studied and are indicated as the Z and Y axes respectively. For a disk diameter of 360 nm the resonance wavelengths for these two polarizations are similar. However the SERS enhancements are only large for Z polarization and the variation of the Z polarized resonance behavior with interdisk spacing is important to the interpretation of the experiments.

Contours of the electric fields plotted as E for a two nanodisk array with different disk thicknesses and gaps are shown in . The plane used for the intensity calculation is between the two disks and 5 nm above the surface of one of them the choice does not effect the calculations . Each column represents nanodisk arrays with the same thickness while each row represents nanodisk arrays with the same gap distance. The disk thicknesses from left to right are 40 80 120 160 and 200 nm respectively. The gap distances from top to bottom are 5 10 15 30 and 80 nm respectively. The contours range from 0 50 times the incident intensity. The 120 nm thick disks show the largest peak electric fields E maximizes at 105 times the incident field intensity and also the highest average fields 1700 where the average is over the entire surface area of both particles . This dependence of the results on disk thickness is in agreement with the experimental measurements see . The magnitude of the SERS enhancement factor compared to that for an isolated disk where 18 was accurately predicted. Previous studies Hao et al. 120 357 2004 focused on the electric fields around silver particle triangles and found that the electric fields between the particles increase dramatically with decreasing gap size. However in this simulation the electric fields both peak and average are found to peak at a 10 nm gap distance. For example is 1700 for 120 nm thick disks with a 10 nm gap while the number declines to 300 when the gap distance narrows to 5 nm and to 190 when the gap distance increases to 15 nm. These calculations are in qualitative agreement with the experimental observations except that the gap distance with the highest Raman signals occur at 30 nm. Although the gaps between particles generally lead to enhanced fields the decline in enhancement for very small gaps arises due to the detuning of the dipole plasmon mode to the red of the excitation and Stokes shifted wavelengths. This is apparent from which shows an increased number of nodes in the field as the gap is decreased due to excitation of higher multipoles. Although higher multipoles still produce strong scattering at 633 nm the field enhancements associated with these modes are smaller than for a dipole mode. This situation is more complicated in the experiment due to the surface roughness in the gap but the theory and experiments are in quantitative agreement.

The foregoing describes and exemplifies the invention but is not intended to limit the invention defined by the claims which follow. All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the materials and methods of this invention have been described in terms of specific embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the materials and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

