---

title: Vortex combustor for low NOx emissions when burning lean premixed high hydrogen content fuel
abstract: A trapped vortex combustor. The trapped vortex combustor is configured for receiving a lean premixed gaseous fuel and oxidant stream, where the fuel includes hydrogen gas. The trapped vortex combustor is configured to receive the lean premixed fuel and oxidant stream at a velocity which significantly exceeds combustion flame speed in a selected lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture. The combustor is configured to operate at relatively high bulk fluid velocities while maintaining stable combustion, and low NOx emissions. The combustor is useful in gas turbines in a process of burning synfuels, as it offers the opportunity to avoid use of diluent gas to reduce combustion temperatures. The combustor also offers the possibility of avoiding the use of selected catalytic reaction units for removal of oxides of nitrogen from combustion gases exiting a gas turbine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07603841&OS=07603841&RS=07603841
owner: Ramgen Power Systems, LLC
number: 07603841
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060228
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority from prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 430 849 filed May 5 2003 which issues on Feb. 28 2006 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 003 961B2 that application claimed the benefit of priority from prior U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 200 780 filed on Jul. 23 2002 which has matured into U.S. Pat. No. 6 694 743 B1 issued Feb. 24 2004 that application claimed the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 386 195 filed Jul. 17 2002 which was converted on Jul. 17 2002 from originally filed U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 912 265 filed on Jul. 23 2001. The disclosures of each of the above patents and patent applications including the specification claims and figures of the drawing are each incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE FC026 00NT40915 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to burners and combustors including high efficiency combustors for gas turbine engines as well as to process applications for gas turbine engines utilizing such combustors.

The development of novel or improved processes for combustion of high hydrogen content fuels has become increasingly important in view of the development of various integrated power generation and fuel synthesis processes especially where such processes produce fuels with significant hydrogen content. Commercially available gas turbines have typically been developed for the combustion of natural gas i.e. a methane rich fuel with high calorific values in the range of from about 800 to about 1200 BTU scf British Thermal Units per standard cubic foot wherein standard conditions are 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute and 60 F. . While such gas turbines have been adapted to burn certain syngas fuels and more specifically fuels with low calorific value often in the range of from about 100 to about 300 BTU scf gas turbine combustor design features have not generally been optimized for hydrogen content or low grade gaseous fuel applications.

Conventional gas turbine engines encounter two basic difficulties when transitioning from natural gas to syngas. First for the same fuel heat input the mass flow of a syngas fuel is often four to five times greater than that for natural gas due to the lower heating value of the syngas fuel. Second although premixed natural gas and air combustion systems have become common place for controlling NOx emissions such systems have not been successfully implemented for syngas applications due to the high hydrogen content of the syngas and the accompanying potential for flashback of the flame into the fuel injection system. Consequently diffusion flame or non premixed combustors which have been used in the combustion of syngas have been configured to control the NOx emissions by diluting the syngas with nitrogen steam or carbon dioxide. In such designs the diluent reduces the flame temperature and consequently reduces the formation of NOx.

In the combustion of natural gas dry i.e. no addition of steam or water low NOx DLN or Dry Low NOx combustors can achieve less than 10 ppmvd 10 parts per million by volume dry at 15 Oxygen NOx emissions with a natural gas fuel. Such DLN combustors rely on the premix principle which reduces the combustion flame temperature and consequently the NOx emissions. DLN combustors are able to achieve much lower NOx emissions than diluted non premixed combustors because of higher premixing time prior to the combustion zone.

In high hydrogen content fuel such as is found in some syngas mixtures up to 60 hydrogen by volume or more or in pure hydrogen fuel sources the flame speeds may be up to as much as six times faster than the flame speed that is typical in combustion of natural gas. Consequently such high flame speed mixtures whether from syngas based fuels or from other hydrogen source fuels makes the use of a DLN combustion system impossible because in such a system the flame would flash back into the premix zone and destroy the fuel injection hardware.

On the other hand the diluted non premixed combustors have a chemical kinetic limit when too much diluent is added for reduction of NOx emissions. The increase in diluent causes flame instability in the combustion zone and eventually combustor flame out. Consequently in the best case a practical NOx reduction limit for prior art syngas combustors is presently between about 10 and about 20 ppmvd NOx.

In summary there remains an as yet unmet need for a combustor for a gas turbine engine that may be utilized for the combustion of high hydrogen content fuels. In order to meet such needs and achieve such goals it is necessary to address the basic technical challenges by developing new system designs. As described herein advantageous gas turbine system designs may include the use of a lean premix with high hydrogen content fuels in combination with the use of trapped vortex combustors.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual embodiments which may be implemented depending upon the circumstances. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of the various embodiments and aspects of the invention. However various other elements of a novel trapped vortex combustor and methods for employing the same in the combustion of high flame speed fuels such as hydrogen rich syngas may be utilized in order to provide a versatile gas turbine engine with novel trapped vortex combustor for combustion of a fuel air premix while minimizing emissions of carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen.

As depicted in a novel trapped vortex combustor design has been developed for operation in a low NOx lean premixed mode on hydrogen rich fuels yet accommodates the high flame speed that is a characteristic of such fuels. In some embodiments such a combustor can achieve extremely low NOx emissions without the added capital and operating expense of post combustion treatment of the exhaust gas. Further such a combustor can eliminate the costly requirement for high pressure diluent gas nitrogen steam or carbon dioxide for NOx emissions control.

As easily seen in in the novel trapped vortex combustor design disclosed herein at least one cavity is provided having a selected size and shape to stabilize the combustion flame for a selected fuel composition. Flame stabilization is accomplished by locating a fore body hereinafter identified as first bluff body upstream of a second usually smaller bluff body commonly referred to as an aft body . Fuel F such as a hydrogen rich syngas is provided by fuel outlets and the fuel F is mixed with incoming compressed oxidant containing stream A which oxidant containing stream A may be a compressed air stream containing both oxygen and nitrogen or in other embodiments another inert working fluid such as steam or carbon dioxide . The in flow of bulk fluid continues in the direction of fluid flow reference numeral ultimately providing a lean fuel air premixed stream for entry to the combustion zone that occurs at or adjacent cavity . Fluid flow issuing from around the first bluff body separates but instead of developing shear layer instabilities that in most circumstances becomes the prime mechanism for initiating flame blowout an alternating array of vortices and are conveniently trapped or locked between the first and second bluff bodies.

In some embodiments of the novel trapped vortex combustor design disclosed herein the re circulation of hot products of combustion into the incoming lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture stream may be accomplished by incorporating various features. In one embodiment a stable recirculation zone may be generated in on or more vortices such as vortices and located adjacent to the main fuel air flow. When the fluid flow in the vortex or cavity region is designed properly the flow of the swirling combustion gases comprise one or more vortices that are stable at least with respect to the one or more primary trapped vortices and vortex shedding is substantially avoided. Each of the one or more stable primary vortices are thus used as a source of heat or more precisely a source of hot products of combustion. Further heat from the vortex or cavity region must be transported into the main entering lean premix fuel and oxidant mixture stream and mixed into the main flow. As shown in in one embodiment this may be done in part by escape of a portion of combustion gases from the vortices and in cavity outward in the direction of the incoming lean premixed fuel and oxidant stream flow . In one embodiment such mixing may be accomplished by using structures to create a flow of combustion gases having a substantial transverse component. In this way structures such as struts create stagnation zones from which mixing occurs such as via wakes or for example as seen in . In such embodiments the incoming lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture is at least in part if not primarily ignited by lateral mixing instead of solely by a back mixing process. In some embodiments at least one pair of struts may be provided. Similarly at least one of the at least one pair of struts may include a rear planar portion as can be appreciated from . From it can be seen that in some embodiments the planar rear portion may be oriented coplanar with the rear wall of the first bluff body . Further one or more of the struts may include an upstream portion shaped for low aerodynamic drag.

In any event by providing suitable geometric features such as struts there is provided in the trapped vortex combustor at least some lateral or transverse flow of hot gases to provide lateral mixing to ignite the incoming fuel air mixture. By using such structures as struts in a mixing technique the novel trapped vortex combustor design disclosed herein is believed less sensitive to flame instabilities and other process upsets. This is particularly important when operating near the lean flame extinction limit where small perturbations in the fluid flow can lead to flame extinction.

Thus in the novel trapped vortex combustor design disclosed herein the very stable yet highly energetic primary core flame zone is very resistant to external flow field perturbations and therefore yields extended lean and rich blowout limits relative to a dump combustor having a simple bluff body component. The unique characteristic of the presently described novel trapped vortex combustor technology provides a fluid dynamic mechanism that can overcome the high flame speed of a hydrogen rich gas and thus has the capability to allow combustors to operate with a hydrogen rich gaseous feed stream with a lean fuel air premix composition.

In one embodiment the novel trapped vortex combustor design configuration described herein also has a large flame holding surface area and hence can facilitate the use of a compact primary core flame zone which is essential to promoting high combustion efficiency and reduced CO emissions.

As noted in in one embodiment the trapped vortex combustor includes a base . The first bluff body extends outward from the base for a height or distance of Y and the second bluff body extends outward from the base for a height or distance of Y. In one embodiment Yis equal to Y and the combustor also includes a ceiling so that during operation a stabilized vortex of mixing and burning gas is trapped between the rear wall of the first bluff body and the front wall of the second bluff body and between base and ceiling .

In one embodiment as noted in between the rear wall of the first bluff body and the front wall of the second bluff body at least a portion of the gas from each stabilized vortex and of mixing and burning gas moves in the bulk fluid flow direction i.e. the same direction as the premixed fuel and oxidant mixture stream flow shown in . Also in one embodiment as noted in between the rear wall of the first bluff body and the front wall of the second bluff body at least a portion of each stabilized vortex of mixing and burning gas and moves in a direction opposite the bulk fluid flow direction i.e. opposite the direction as the premixed fuel and oxidant mixture inflow shown in .

As better seen in in one embodiment the novel trapped vortex combustor further comprises one or more outwardly extending structures such as struts . In some embodiments struts may include a planar rear portion . In some embodiments the rear planar portion may be substantially co planar with the rear wall of the first bluff body . As seen in in some embodiments one or more struts may be provided. In some embodiments multiple struts may be provided in a configuration where they extend outwardly from adjacent the rear wall of the first bluff body . In some embodiments the struts may extend transversely with respect to longitudinal axis or may include at least some transverse component so that circulation of a portion of escaping heat and burning gases flow adjacent struts and are thus mixed with an incoming lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture.

As generally shown in and specifically referenced in a novel trapped vortex combustor can be provided wherein the combustor has a central longitudinal axis see defining an axial direction. For reference a combustor may include extending along the longitudinal axis a distance outward toward the ceiling along an outward direction or alternately in an inward base direction both oriented orthogonal to the axial direction. Also for reference a trapped vortex combustor may include space extending in a transverse direction or oriented laterally to the axial direction . A pressurizable plenum is provided having a base an outer wall or ceiling and in some embodiments combustor first and second sidewalls and respectively.

In some embodiments the first bluff body includes a nose and opposing first and second bluff body sidewalls as well as rear noted above. The second bluff body is located downstream from the first bluff body . The second bluff body has an upstream side having a front wall a downstream side having a back wall and first and second opposing sidewalls.

As seen in a mixing zone is provided downstream of the gaseous fuel inlets . The mixing zone is upstream of the rear wall of the first bluff body . The mixing zone has a length LMalong the axial direction sufficient to allow mixing of fuel and oxidant and particularly gaseous fuel and gaseous oxidant to form a lean premixed fuel and oxidant stream having an excess of oxidant. The pressurizable plenum first bluff body and second bluff body are size and shaped to receive the lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture stream at a velocity greater than the combustion flame speed in the lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture composition. Once the cavity is reached flow wise a primary combustion zone of length LPis provided wherein one or more stabilized vortices and are provided to enhance combustion of the entering fuel. After the aft bluff body combustion burnout zone of length LBis provided of sufficient length so that final hot combustion exhaust gases described below meet the desired composition especially with respect to minimizing the presence of carbon monoxide.

As seen in in some embodiments the second bluff body is further configured to provide one or more vortex stabilization jets . Each of the one or more vortex stabilization jets provides an upstream jet of gas in a direction tending to stabilize vortex and vortex in the cavity between the first bluff body and the second bluff body . In one embodiment the second bluff body is coupled to a source of fuel and in such a case at least one of the vortex stabilization jets provides an injection stream containing a fuel. In such an embodiment the second bluff body may be coupled to a source of syngas and in such a case the fuel comprises a syngas. In yet other embodiments the second bluff body is coupled to a source of oxidant and in such cases one or more of the at least one vortex stabilization jets has an injection jet stream containing an oxidant. In yet another embodiment the vortex stabilization jets may include a first jet containing a fuel and a second jet containing an oxidant. In a yet further embodiment the vortex stabilization jets may be used in a process where the second bluff body is coupled to a source of lean premixed fuel and oxidant and wherein a stream comprising lean premixed fuel and oxidant is injected through at least one of the one or more vortex stabilization jets .

In any event the novel trapped vortex combustor includes first and second bluff bodies that are spaced apart in a manner that when the trapped vortex combustor is in operation the heat and combustion products produced during combustion of the lean premix are continuously recirculated in a recirculation zone in the cavity between the first and second bluff bodies and wherein heat and combustion products exit longitudinally reference direction and laterally which may include transversely such as in reference directions and from the cavity and are employed to continuously ignite a lean premixed fuel and oxidant mixture entering the tapped vortex combustor . In some embodiments the lean premixed fuel an oxidant mixture enters adjacent cavity from flow along side of walls and of first bluff body .

High hydrogen content fuels present a particular problem in that the flame speed during the combustion of a premixed stream of pure hydrogen gas and air is approximately six times 6 that of the flame speed of a premixed stream of natural gas and air. Thus in order to prevent flashback of a flame upstream from a combustor when burning premixed fuels containing hydrogen the thru flow velocity needs to be greater and in some embodiments depending upon the hydrogen content in the fuel mixture significantly greater than the flame speed. Such problems are compounded in lean pre mix combustor designs since flashback of the flame into the fuel injector may cause severe damage to the hardware and has the clear potential for example to lead to gas turbine failure. As a result of such factors in so far as we are aware presently there are no lean pre mix gas turbines in operation in industry on high hydrogen content fuels.

In our method of construction and operation of a suitable novel trapped vortex combustor the bulk fluid velocity entering the combustion zone adjacent trapped vortex exceeds the flame speed of combustion occurring in the lean premix composition. In some embodiments the bulk fluid velocity entering the novel trapped vortex combustor exceeds the flame speed of combustion occurring in the lean premix by a factor of from about 3 to about 6 or thereabouts. Depending upon the actual gaseous composition fuels containing significant amounts of hydrogen will have turbulent flame speeds from about thirty five 35 meters per second to about fifty 50 meters per second. Thus in order to achieve desirable safety margins necessary when operating on hydrogen rich gaseous fuel the bulk velocity of lean premix may be provided at about one hundred five 105 meters per second and up to as much as about one hundred fifty 150 meters per second or more. Such bulk pre mixed fuel velocities allow protection against flash back even when operating on high hydrogen content fuels and thus are a significant improvement when applied as combustors in gas turbines.

In short the novel trapped vortex combustor described and claimed herein can provide a significant benefit in gas turbine designs for high hydrogen content fuels. Such fuels may be found in the syngas from coal gasification technology applications such as Integrated Gasification Clean Coal IGCC plants or in Combined Cycle Gasification Technology CCGT plants. Also in some embodiments the novel trapped vortex combustor described and claimed herein may provide a significant benefit in the design and operation of equipment for the combustion of hydrogen rich streams in other systems.

As shown in in a prior art clean coal process plant oxygen blown coal gasifiers are utilized to generate a synthesis gas that is rich in hydrogen and in carbon monoxide. Such synthesis gas is typically cleaned in a gas cleanup unit and the clean synthesis gas is used as a fuel in a gas turbine . The synthesis gas is typically burned in a diffusion combustor . The production of raw synthesis gas thus requires an oxygen source which is typically provided by way of a cryogenic air separation unit ASU . Alternately the oxygen source may be a high temperature ion transport membrane not shown . As is illustrated in in typical prior art process design a portion of the air for the ASU is provided by the compressor of the gas turbine and a portion of the air for the ASU is provided by a separate motor driven feed air compressor . The respective contribution of the gas turbine compressor and the supplemental feed air compressor is commonly referred to as the degree of integration . The degree of integration varies with the specific plant designs but the norm is approximately fifty percent 50 integration where half of the ASU feed air comes from the gas turbine compressor and half of the ASU feed air comes from separate motor drive typically electric drive feed air compressor s .

The heating value of typical cleaned synthesis gas syngas from an IGCC plant is normally below 250 BTU scf British ThermalUnits per standard cubic foot which is approximately one fourth of the heating value of a typical natural gas supply. Stated another way four 4 times the gaseous volume of clean syngas fuel is required to be fed to a gas turbine in order to generate the same power output that would be generated if the gas turbine were instead fueled utilizing a typical natural gas supply.

Unfortunately conventional swirl stabilized lean pre mix combustor designs cannot be used with a hydrogen rich syngas fuel because of concerns over the possibility of flame flashback in a hydrogen rich fuel and over the possibility of auto ignition in a high pressure pre mix fuel oxidant stream. Gas turbine manufacturers offer various conventional non pre mix diffusion combustor designs that have marginal emissions signatures. In such conventional prior art diffusion combustor designs nitrogen is added as a diluent in order to reach a desired NOx emissions level such as a 25 ppm NOx emission level. In other non IGCC gas turbine applications various other diluent gases such as CO carbon dioxide and HO steam can also used for NOx control but with the same adverse efficiency decreasing results. Note that in the typical IGCC plant as conceptually depicted in although nitrogen diluent comes from the ASU as a by product of the air separation process there may need to be at extra capital cost and at extra operating expense an additional diluent gas compressor not shown .

For further treatment of the products of combustion to reduce oxides of nitrogen a selective catalytic reduction SCR system may be used to reach a 3 ppm NOx emission value requirement as is often established by regulation of applicable governmental authorities. In certain SCR systems optimum reaction temperature for the SCR process may be provided by linking the SCR system with the heat recovery steam generator HRSG . The HRSG may be utilized for recovery of heat and generation of steam for use in a steam turbine for shaft power such as via shaft to an electric generator similar to configuration illustrated in or for process use not shown . In any event condensed steam is collected at a condenser and returned as condensate to the HRSG . Also electrical power is generated via shaft power from gas turbine that is used to turn generator . Where utilized the above mentioned electrical generator is driven by steam turbine .

In such prior art IGCC plants the total combined gaseous products of combustion flow stream from the added syngas fuel flow volume up to four times or more by volume compared to natural gas and from the added nitrogen diluent flow volume creates a mass flow mismatch and thus load mismatch between the compressor section and the turbine section of a gas turbine designed for use on a typical natural gas fuel. A higher mass flow rate through the turbine section may increase the pressure at the compressor section outlet too much so that the compressor approaches or if left unaddressed would encroach a compressor surge region where such total mass flow would no longer be sustainable. In various plant designs such a mismatch is managed by adjusting the degree of integration which usually means removal of at least a portion of the compressed air mass flow to the ASU from the gas turbine compressor . Alternately a gas turbine manufacturer could add a compressor stage to allow higher overall pressure ratio in the compression cycle. Further the high mass flow of syngas as compared to natural gas might approach the mechanical limits of a gas turbine rotor to handle turbine power output. Thus while close coupling of the ASU and the gas turbine in an IGCC plant would seem to be synergistic in prior art plant designs there remain various workaround issues in plant design with respect to efficient combustion of syngas such designs are subject to various capital cost penalties and or system efficiency losses whether from costs of the SCR system for NOx cleanup or for load matching with respect to compressed air requirements or from nitrogen dilution practice.

By comparison of it is particularly pointed out that the use of a novel trapped combustor as described and claimed herein to produce a hot combustion exhaust gas stream would allow the provision of an IGCC plant that eliminates the practice of use of nitrogen dilution in burners and that eliminates the use of an SCR system whether in a high temperature embodiment for direct receipt of combustion gases from gas turbine not illustrated or the use of an SCR system as shown in a low temperature embodiment in conjunction with the HRSG as noted in .

As can be appreciated from uncoupling of the gas turbine compressor with requirement for supply of the ASU also offers the potential for savings in some fuel synthesis plants by freeing up the compressor so that the parasitic air compression load is reduced. Many of the gas turbine compressors currently available operate most efficiently at a pressure ratio of about twenty 20 which means that when compressing atmospheric air there is about a three hundred 300 psia pounds per square inch absolute discharge pressure. However since most ASU units presently operate in the one hundred fifty pounds per square inch gauge 150 psig range excess compression work may sometimes take place in preparation of compressed air feed for the ASU . However if in the plant design shown in valve is closed and all of the feed air to the ASU is provided using a 4 stage intercooled motor driven compressor operating at 282.2 psia discharge pressure the total air compression costs would be less than the costs associated with the case shown in where valve is open and 50 of supply for the air separation unit is provided via the gas turbine compressor bleed air supply. Further if all of the ASU feed air were provided by a motor driven intercooled multistage compressor operating only at one hundred sixty four point seven 164.7 psia discharge pressure then there would be a significant energy savings for the supply of compressed air to the ASU. Moreover the gas turbine compressor could in such a case be designed to solely handle the oxidant supply requirements to combustor or to handle compression of an oxidant and an inert working gas such as carbon dioxide or steam where such fluids are used to increase work output from turbine of the gas turbine engine without regard to any integration requirements with the ASU air supply.

In any event a novel trapped vortex combustor can be adapted for use in or in combination with various types of gas turbines for the combustion of high hydrogen content fuels especially such fuels from various types of fuel synthesis plants such as carbonaceous matter gasification plants including coal or coke gasification plants. In one embodiment this may be made possible by decreasing the mass flow through the turbine section. Also in one embodiment a novel trapped vortex combustor design can improve the overall cycle efficiency of a gas turbine by decreasing the pressure drop through the trapped vortex combustor as compared with a prior art diffusion combustor . And such a novel trapped vortex combustor design can extend the lean blowout limit while offering greater turndown i.e. load following capability with improved combustion and process stability. In summary a novel trapped vortex combustor design holds tremendous promise for combustion of hydrogen rich fuels in various gas turbine applications. Such a design offers improved efficiency lower emissions levels greater flame stability increased durability added fuel flexibility and reduced capital costs compared to prior art designs.

The novel trapped vortex combustor described and claimed herein may be utilized in a variety of gaseous fuel synthesis plants that make hydrogen rich fuels. One such plant is an integrated gasification process as conceptually depicted in . In such processes the gasification unit shown as gasifier produces a raw synthesis gas from a carbonaceous feed such as coke or coal to produce a synthesis gas comprising CO and H as well as other contaminants that vary according to the feed stock.

In a gaseous fuel synthesis process the synthesis gas syngas provided by the process may have at least fifteen 15 mole percent hydrogen gas. In other embodiments the syngas provided by the process may have at least twenty five 25 mole percent hydrogen gas therein. Depending on feed stock and the process employed a synthesis gas provided by the process may have at least thirty 30 mole percent hydrogen gas. In yet other feed stocks or operating conditions the synthesis gas may have at least fifty 50 mole percent hydrogen gas. In still other embodiments the synthesis gas may have at least sixty five 65 mole percent hydrogen gas. In yet other embodiments the synthesis gas may have at least seventy five 75 mole percent hydrogen gas or more than seventy five 75 mole percent hydrogen. In some gaseous fuel synthesis plants the synthesis gas may be provided at about one hundred 100 mole percent hydrogen.

When a carbonaceous feedstock such as a coal or coke feedstock is utilized in a gasification process a raw synthesis gas may be cleaned at gas cleanup unit to produce a clean synthesis gas . A gas turbine is provided coupled to an electrical generator for generating electrical power. The gas turbine engine includes a compressor section a turbine and a novel trapped vortex combustor . The novel trapped vortex combustor is sized and shaped for receiving a gaseous fuel F including gas resulting from the cleanup of the raw synthesis gas via a fuel outlet and a compressed oxidant containing stream A see and for mixing the gaseous fuel F and the compressed oxidant containing stream A to form a premixed fuel and oxidant stream having a stoichiometric excess of oxidant. Then the lean premixed fuel and oxidant stream is fed to the novel trapped vortex combustor at a bulk fluid velocity in excess of the speed of a flame front in a premixed fuel and oxidant mixture stream of preselected composition.

As shown in noted above the novel trapped vortex combustor includes a first bluff body and a second bluff body . The combustion of the synthesis gas occurs at least in part in cavity to produce a stabilized vortex and of mixed oxidant and burning synthesis gas between the first bluff body and the second bluff body .

In some embodiments the bulk premixed velocity may be in the range of from about one hundred five 105 meters per second to about one hundred fifty 150 meters per second. The fuel F in the lean premixed stream is combusted in the novel trapped vortex combustor primarily at main vortex to create a hot combustion exhaust gas stream . The turbine is turned by expansion of the hot combustion exhaust gas stream to produce shaft power and the shaft turns the electrical generator to produce electrical power.

Referring now to when employed in an IGCC plant an air separation unit is normally provided to separate air into a nitrogen rich stream and an oxygen rich stream. In such IGCC plant the oxygen rich stream is provided as a feed stream to the gasification unit . In some embodiments a motor driven air compressor may be provided to produce compressed air for feed to the air separation plant . As noted in in some embodiments a compressor having multiple compression stages and an intercooler can be provided and in such case the process can be operated to recover the heat of compression from air compressed in the motor driven air compression plant . Further nitrogen can be collected from the nitrogen rich stream exiting the air separation plant . In some embodiments the nitrogen can be stored as compressed gas or liquefied and in any event collected and either used elsewhere on site or sent off site for sale.

In summary whether for application for combustion of syngas from coal gasification or for combustion of other high hydrogen content fuels or for combustion of other gaseous fuels a novel trapped vortex combustor design has now been developed and initial tests have indicated that significant improvements in emissions may be attained in such a design. And an important objective of the novel trapped vortex combustor design and operating strategy is to control such emissions. In one embodiment NOx is expected to be controlled to about 15 ppmvd or lower. In another embodiment NOx is expected to be controlled to 9 ppmvd or lower. In yet another embodiment NOx is expected to be controlled to 3 ppmvd or lower. These emissions are stated in parts per million by volume dry at fifteen percent 15 oxygen ppmvd .

As generally described herein the novel trapped vortex combustor described herein is easily adaptable to use in a power generation system. Where syngas is burned the fuel composition may vary widely depending upon the gasification process selected for use but broadly gaseous fuels may have a hydrogen to carbon monoxide mole percent ratio of from about 1 2 to about 1 1. More generally the novel trapped vortex combustor described herein may be sized and shaped for operation with a gaseous syngas fuel in a wide range of fuel compositions and in various embodiments may be utilized on syngas containing hydrogen or more broadly with fuels containing hydrogen in the range of from about fifteen 15 mole percent to about one hundred 100 mole percent.

The novel trapped vortex combustor design described herein is a unique design which allows use of a gaseous fuel lean pre mix and is capable of handling the high velocity through flow necessary with hydrogen rich fuels. The technology has experimentally proven to be very stable and exhibits both low pressure drop and low acoustic coupling throughout its operating range. It is believed that these capabilities can potentially allow a gas turbine combustor to burn hydrogen rich syngas type fuels in a lean pre mix mode without flashback. Further such an approach will enable the gas turbine combustor to meet the stringent emissions requirements without after treatment and without diluent gas. Such a configuration may also allow the retrofit of certain existing natural gas fired power plants to clean coal gasification operations allowing for productive use of the assets currently considered stranded by the high cost of natural gas.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for a novel trapped vortex combustor and power generation systems employing such a trapped vortex combustor. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice a selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further the description includes for descriptive purposes various relative terms such as adjacent proximity adjoining near on onto on top underneath underlying downward lateral base ceiling and the like. Such usage should not be construed as limiting. That is terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments of the present invention. And various steps or operations in a method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such operations are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not need to be performed in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more operations may be eliminated while other operations may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided by this invention and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

