---

title: Method and apparatus for improving the transcription accuracy of speech recognition software
abstract: A virtual vocabulary database is provided for use with a with a particular user database as part of a speech recognition system. Vocabulary elements within the virtual database are imported from the user database and are tagged to include numerical data corresponding to the historical use of the vocabulary element within the user database. For each speech input, potential vocabulary element matches from the speech recognition system are provided to the virtual database software which creates virtual sub-vocabularies from the criteria according to predefined criteria templates. The software then applies vocabulary element weighting adjustments according to the virtual sub-vocabulary weightings and applies the adjustment to the default weighting provided by the speech recognition system. The modified weightings are returned with the associated vocabulary elements to the speech engine for selection of an appropriate match to the input speech.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07805299&OS=07805299&RS=07805299
owner: 
number: 07805299
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20061023
---
This application is related to and claims the benefit of commonly owned U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 728 990 filed Oct. 21 2005 titled Method and Apparatus for Improving The Transcription Accuracy of Speech Recognition Software which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further this application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 510 435 filed on Aug. 25 2006 entitled Method and apparatus for improving the transcription accuracy of speech recognition software which in turn is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 791 626 filed on Mar. 1 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 426 468 entitled Method and Apparatus for Improving The Transcription Accuracy of Speech Recognition Software all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Speech recognition systems particularly computer based speech recognition systems are well known. Numerous inventions and voice transcription technologies have been developed to address various problems within speech recognition systems. In one aspect advanced mathematics and processing algorithms have been developed to address the needs of translating vocal input into computer text through speech parsing phoneme identification and database matching of the input speech so as to accurately transcribe the speech into text.

General speech recognition databases are also well known. U.S. Pat. No. 6 631 348 Wymore for example discloses a speech recognition system in which vocal training information is provided to create different vocal reference patterns under different ambient noise levels. The Wymore invention creates a database of captured speech from this training input. During operation a user of the Wymore system may then dictate speech under various ambient noise conditions and the speech recognition system properly filters the noise from the user s input speech based on the different stored models to determine the appropriate spoken words thereby improving the accuracy of the speech transcription.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 662 160 Chien et al. also discloses a system involving adaptive speech recognition methods that include noise compensation. Like Wymore the system of Chien et al. neutralizes noise associated with input speech through the use of preprocessed training input. Chien et al. employs complex statistical mathematical models e.g. Hidden Markov Models and applies optimal equalization factors in connection with feature vectors and probability density functions related to various speech models so as to accurately recognize a user s speech.

Other voice transcription systems address the problems of minimizing and correcting misrecognition errors. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 195 637 Ballard et al. discloses a transcription system that accepts a user s dictation and contemporaneously allows a user to mark misrecognized words during the dictation. At the conclusion of dictation a computer based textual correction tool is invoked with which the user may correct the marked misrecognized words. Numerous potentially intended words e.g. words that are close in phonetic distance to the actual speech are provided by the Ballard et al. system for possible replacement of the misrecognized word. Other examples of misrecognized words include incorrectly spelled words and improperly formatted words e.g. lack of upper case letters in a name or incorrect punctuation . In one embodiment Ballard et al. discloses a computer having a windows based graphical user interface that displays the list of potentially intended words from which the user selects the appropriate word with a graphical input device such as a computer mouse.

Other existing speech recognition systems deal with problems associated with large speech recognition vocabularies i.e. the entire English language. These systems typically address the allocation of the computer based resources required to solve the speech recognition problems associated with such a vocabulary. U.S. Pat. No. 6 490 557 Jeppesen for example discloses a system and method for recognizing and transcribing continuous speech in real time. In one embodiment the disclosed speech recognition system includes multiple geographically distributed computer systems connected by high speed links. A portion of the disclosed computer system is responsible for preprocessing continuous speech input such as filtering any background noise provided during the speech input and subsequently converting the resultant speech signals into digital format. The digital signals are then transcribed into word lists upon which automatic speech recognition components operate. Jeppeson s speech recognition system is also trainable so as to accommodate more than one type of voice input including vocal input containing different accents and dialects. Thus this speech recognition system is capable of recognizing large vocabulary continuous speech input in a consistent and reliable manner particularly speech that involves variable input rates and different dialects and accents. Jeppesen further discloses systems having on site data storage at the site of the speech input and off site data storage which stores the databases of transcribed words. Thus in one aspect a primary advantage of Jeppesen is that a database of large scale vocabularies containing speech dictations is distributed across different geographical areas such that users employing dialects and accents within a particular country or portion of the world would be able to use localized databases to accurately transcribe their speech input.

Other large vocabulary speech recognition systems are directed to improving the recognition of dictated input through the use of specialized hierarchically arranged vocabularies. The computerized speech recognition system of U.S. Pat. No. 6 526 380 Thelan et al. for example employs a plurality of speech recognition models that accept incoming speech in parallel and attempts to match the speech input within specific databases. Since the English language vocabulary for example is relatively large the speech matching success rate using such a large vocabulary for any given particular dictation may be lower than what is acceptable for a particular application. Thelan et al. attempts to solve this problem through the use of specific vocabularies selected by the voice recognition modules after a particular speech vocabulary and associated text database is determined to be more appropriately suited to the dictation at issue. Thus Thelan et al. begins with an ultra large vocabulary and narrows the text selection vocabularies depending on the speech input so as to select further refined vocabularies that provide greater transcription accuracy. Model selectors are operative within Thelan et al. to enable the recognition of more specific models if the specific models obtain good recognition results. These specific models may then be used as replacement for the more generic vocabulary model. As with Jeppesen Thelan et al. discloses computer based speech recognition system having potentially distributed vocabulary databases.

Heretofore no computerized speech recognition systems have been developed that take advantage of repeated dictation of specific terms into specific form fields or repeated dictation of specific terms by specific persons. In particular context specific vocabularies or context specific modifications of matching probabilities have not been provided with respect a context specific vocabulary which is used on conjunction with more general vocabularies. The modern necessity of using specific computerized form based input creates a unique problem in that the general vocabularies used by many of the commercial speech recognition software programs do not provide efficient and accurate recognition and transcription of users input speech. The limitations of the present systems lie in the fact that any vocabulary large enough to accommodate general as well as specific text will have phonetically similar general text so as to cause an unacceptably high error rate.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention a method for improving the accuracy of a computerized speech recognition system the speech recognition system including a base vocabulary the method includes loading a specified vocabulary into computer storage the specified vocabulary associated with a specific context accepting a user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the user s voice input with data values from the specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion selecting a particular data value as an input into a computerized form field if the evaluation criterion is met and if the user s voice input does not meet the evaluation criterion selecting a data value from the base vocabulary as an input into the computerized form field. According to further aspects of the invention the method further includes evaluating the user s voice input with data values from the base vocabulary according to a base evaluation criterion if the user s voice input does not meet the evaluation criterion. According to another aspect of the invention the evaluation criterion is a use weighting associated with the data values. As yet another aspect the step of evaluating further includes the step of applying a matching heuristic against a known threshold. According to another aspect of the invention and further the step of applying a matching heuristic further includes a step of comparing the user s voice input to a threshold probability of matching an acoustic model derived from the specified vocabulary. In still other aspects of the invention the context is associated with any one or more of the following a topical subject a specific user and a context are associated with a field.

According to another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for improving the accuracy of a computerized speech recognition system is provided that include the steps of loading a first specified vocabulary into computer storage the first specified vocabulary associated with a first computerized form field accepting a user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the user s voice input with data values from the first specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion selecting a particular data value as input into the first computerized form field if the user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion loading a second specified vocabulary into computer storage the second specified vocabulary associated with a second computerized form field accepting a user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the user s voice input with against data values from the specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion and selecting a particular data value as input into a second computerized form field if the user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion. In one aspect the evaluation criterion for the steps of evaluating the first and the second specified vocabularies are the same. In another aspect the evaluation criterion for the steps of evaluating the first and the second specified vocabularies are different criterion. In still another aspect the first and second computerized form fields are associated with different fields of a computerized medical form.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for improving the accuracy of a computerized speech recognition system that includes loading a first specified vocabulary into computer storage the first specified vocabulary associated with a first user of the speech recognition system accepting the first user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the first user s voice input with data values from the first specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion selecting a particular data value as an input into a computerized form field if the first user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion loading a second specified vocabulary into computer storage the second specified vocabulary associated with a second user of the speech recognition system accepting a second user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the second user s voice input with data values from the specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion and selecting a particular data value as an input into the computerized form field if the second user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion. In one aspect the first and second users of the speech recognition system are different doctors and the computerized form fields are associated with a field within a computerized medical form.

In still another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for improving the accuracy of a computerized speech recognition system that includes loading a first specified vocabulary into computer storage the first specified vocabulary associated with a first context used within the speech recognition system accepting a user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the user s voice input with data values from the first specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion selecting a particular data value as an input into a computerized form field if the user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion loading a second specified vocabulary into computer storage the second specified vocabulary associated with a second context used within the speech recognition system accepting the user s voice input into the speech recognition system evaluating the user s voice input with data values from the specified vocabulary according to an evaluation criterion and selecting a particular data value as an input into the computerized form field if the user s voice input meets the evaluation criterion. In one aspect the first context is a patient s age and the second context is a patient diagnosis of the patient.

In still another embodiment of the present invention a computerized speech recognition system is provided including a computerized form including at least one computerized form field a first vocabulary database containing data entries for the computerized form field the first vocabulary associated with a specific criterion a second vocabulary database containing data entries for the data field and an input for accepting a user s vocal input the vocal input being compared to the first vocabulary as a first pass in selecting an input for the computerized form field and the vocal input being compared to the second vocabulary as a second pass in selecting an input for the computerized form field. In one aspect the criterion is one or more of the following a topical context a specific user of the speech recognition system a form field. In another aspect the first vocabulary database is a subset of the second vocabulary database.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a database of data values for use in a computerized speech recognition system is provided including a first vocabulary database containing data entries for a computerized form including at least one computerized form field the first vocabulary associated with a specific criterion and a second vocabulary database containing data entries for the data field. In one aspect the criterion is one or more of the following a topical context a specific user of the speech recognition system a field.

According to another preferred embodiment of the method of an enhanced speech recognition system the method includes a process of vocabulary element matching including the steps of loading a first vocabulary evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the first vocabulary to determine a first vocabulary match set each vocabulary element within the first vocabulary match set having a match probability score weighting the match probability scores of the vocabulary elements within the first vocabulary match set with a first vocabulary weighting factor loading a second vocabulary evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the second vocabulary to determine a second vocabulary match set each vocabulary element within the second vocabulary match set having a match probability score combining the individual vocabulary elements within the first and second vocabulary match sets so as to create a combine set of vocabulary elements weighting the match probability scores of the combine set of vocabulary elements with a second vocabulary weighting factor and selecting as a match to an input to the computerized speech recognition system a vocabulary element from the combine set of vocabulary elements based on the weighted match probability scores of the combine set of vocabulary elements. The enhanced method may also include the steps of reducing a size of the combine set of vocabulary elements to create a reduced combine set of vocabulary elements or the steps of loading a third vocabulary evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the third vocabulary to determine a third vocabulary match set each vocabulary element within the third vocabulary match set having a match probability score and combining the individual vocabulary elements with the combined set of vocabulary elements so as to create a new combine set of vocabulary elements.

According to particularly preferred aspects of the enhanced method the first and second weighting functions are linear scaling factors and the step of weighting includes the step of multiplying the match probability score by the linear scaling factors or the first and second weighting functions are non linear scaling factors and the step of weighting includes the step of applying the non linear scaling factor to the match probability score. According to yet other aspects of the enhanced method the first and second vocabularies may be selected based on the previously input text of a user of the speech recognition system and or the previously input text used in a particular form field being populated by the speech recognition system or are selected according to a speech context being used by a user of the speech recognition system or any combination of these or other criteria.

According to another preferred embodiment of the method of an enhanced speech recognition system the method includes loading a first vocabulary evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the first vocabulary to determine a first vocabulary match set each vocabulary element within the first vocabulary match set having a match probability score loading a second vocabulary evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the second vocabulary to determine a second vocabulary match set each vocabulary element within the second vocabulary match set having a match probability score combining the individual vocabulary elements within the first and second vocabulary match sets so as to create a combine set of vocabulary elements weighting the match probability scores of the combine set of vocabulary elements with a non linear vocabulary weighting function evaluating individual vocabulary elements within the combined set of vocabulary elements to determine a combined vocabulary match set based on the non linearly weighted match probability scores of the vocabulary element within combined set of vocabulary elements and selecting as a match to an input to the computerized speech recognition system a vocabulary element from the combine set of vocabulary elements based on the weighted match probability scores of the combine set of vocabulary elements. The enhanced method may also including the steps of applying the non linear weighting function to the match probability scores of the vocabulary elements within the first and second vocabulary match sets calculating a first altered match probability score for the vocabulary elements within the first vocabulary match set deriving a second altered match probability score for the vocabulary elements within the second vocabulary match set and deriving modified first and second match probability scores for the vocabulary elements within the combined set of vocabulary elements.

Specific examples of the present invention are provided within the following description. Persons of skill in the art will recognize that these are merely specific examples and that more general uses for the present invention are possible. Specifically in the examples that follow the present invention is generally described as it pertains to speech recognition within the medical field and as it may be used within a medical office. It is easily understood and recognized that other applications of the present invention exist in other fields of use including use in a general web based form or web page. Further the system of the present invention is described as being implemented in software but hardware and firmware equivalents may also be realized by those skilled in the art. Finally the pronoun he will be used in the following examples to mean either he or she and his will be used to mean either his or her .

Referring to input speech is provided to the speech recognition system via a voice collection device for example a microphone . Microphone in turn is connected to the computer equipment associated with the microphone shown as in . Computer system also includes a speech recognition software system . Numerous commercial speech recognition software systems are readily available for such purpose including but not limited to ViaVoice offered by IBM and Dragon Naturally Speaking offered by ScanSoft. Regardless of the manufacturer of the product the speech recognition software includes generally a speech recognition module which is responsible for parsing the input speech as digitized by the microphone according to various well known speech recognition algorithms and heuristics. Language model is also typically included with speech recognition software . In part the language model is responsible for parsing the input speech according to various algorithms and producing fundamental language components. These language components are typically created in relation to a particular language and or application of interest which the speech recognition system then evaluates against a textual vocabulary database to determine a match. In frame based systems for example incoming analog speech is digitized and the amplitude of different frequency bands are stored as dimensions of a vector. This is performed for each of between 6 000 and 16 000 frames per second and the resulting temporal sequence of vectors is converted by any of various means to a series of temporally overlapping tokens as defined in U.S. Pat. No. 6 073 097 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirely. These tokens are then matches with similar temporal sequences of vectors generated from strings of text in the active vocabulary according to the active language model and any active set of learned user specific phonetic patterns and habits.

General text database is typically included as part of speech recognition software and includes language text that is output by the speech recognition software once a match with the input speech is made. General or base vocabulary database may contain the textual vocabulary for an entire language e.g. English. More typical however the base vocabulary database contains a sizable subset of a particular language or desired application e.g. hundreds of thousands of words. Those of skill in the arts of database management and computer science will realize that certain inherent computational difficulties and computer processing problems exist in the use and management of databases of this size. The principal barrier to accurate speech matching recognition with large vocabularies is background noise in the form of sufficient numbers of phonetically similar text mismatches in the vocabulary to give an unacceptable frequency of transcription errors. Other problems include the latency associated with full database searches for textual matches corresponding to input speech and the time and computer processing resources that must be expended within applications in which the base vocabulary database is swappable and must be replaced. These problems will arise for example with rapid swapping of large vocabulary databases in different languages.

Following a textual match from the speech input by speech recognition system the text output from base vocabulary database is then provided as input to any one of a number of other computer based applications into which the user desires the text. Examples of typical computer applications that are particularly suited for use with speech recognition software include but are not limited to word processors spreadsheets command systems and or transcription systems that can take advantage of a user s vocal input. Alternatively as more text based applications accompany people s use of the internet for example such vocal input may be used to provide inputs to text field within a particular form field or web page displayed by an internet browser.

Although the initial applications of the present invention are directed to voice to text applications in which vocal input is provided and textual output is desired other applications are envisioned in which any user or machine provides an input to a recognition system and that recognition system provides some type of output from a library of possible outputs. Examples of such applications include but are not limited to a search and match of graphical outputs based on a user s voice input or an action based output e.g. a computer logon based on a vocal input. One example of an action based output may be to provide access to one of several computer systems the list of computer systems being stored in a database of all accessible computer systems based on a user s bio input e.g. fingerprint or a machines mechanical input e.g. a login message from a computer .

Referring again to the speech recognition voice transcription system of the present invention further includes a specified database of text string values that provide a first pass output in response to a particular speech input against which the system attempts to determine a match. These text strings may be stored in any one of a number of formats and may be organized in any one of a number of manners depending on the practical application of the system. In one particularly preferred embodiment the text strings within specified database are provided from the vocal inputs of previous users of the speech recognition system. Using the Doctor s office example shown in of the first pass text strings may be organized by users e.g. doctors of the system such that those text strings used by a particular doctor are loaded by the system as first pass potential matches when that particular doctor logs into the system and or his vocal speech is recognized and identified by the system as belonging to that doctor. Sub databases and illustrate such an organization based on users of the system.

Specified database may also be organized according to numerous other criteria that may be advantageous to users of the speech recognition system of the present invention. In another arrangement the sub databases of first pass text strings within first pass specified database may be organized by fields within a computerized or web based electronic form. Using the example of a doctors office once again and referring to text input may need to be input into a medical form that includes a patient s name shown in computerized form field the patient s address shown in computerized form field the patient s phone number shown in computerized form field and the patient s age shown in computerized form field . Sub databases and shown in are specific examples of the general field sub databases and of . These sub databases provide first pass text strings for matching speech input provided by the doctor when populating form fields and respectively.

As yet another example of sub database organization within specified database a context associated with some aspect of the present speech input or even past speech input may be used to organize and condition the data into appropriate first pass sub databases. For example the sub database associated with the findings field within the medical form of may be conditioned upon both the history and the age of the patient under the presumption that previous findings related to a particular combination of history and age group either within an individual medical office or in general are more likely to be repeated in future speech inputs with respect to patients having the same combination of age range and history. As one example the findings fields populated within a form in the office practice of a primary care physician with a history of abdominal pain and characteristic physical findings may be quite similar for the following two conditions appendicitis as a probable Interpretation field for patients age 5 12 and diverticulitis as a probable Interpretation for patients age 75 . Characteristic findings abdominal pain with what is called rebound tenderness will be stored in sub database and provided to findings field while appendicitis and diverticulitis will be stored in sub database and provided to Interpretation field .

Specified database may be created and organized in any number of ways and from any one of a number of sources of information so as to provide an accurate first pass database for appropriate and efficient use within a particular context. If for example specified database contains text strings organized by users of the system a user context under the statistical presumption that each specific doctor is more likely to repeat his or her own relatively recent utterances than earlier utterances in situations when all other system parameters are the same and more likely to repeat terms used by other system users or other physicians in the same specialty under otherwise identical circumstances than to use terms neither they nor others have used in that situation text from their own past dictations or those of others whether manually or electronically transcribed may be used to populate and arrange the text string values within the database. If however a high probability first pass database is used to provide text strings to be input into particular fields within a computerized form then these data values may be derived and input from previously filled out forms. These data may then be organized into sub databases according to form fields for example as shown in by sub databases . Also the specified database may contain one many or all such data for use within a particular desired context and output application. Finally the actual data values within the database may be dynamically updated and rearranged into different sub databases during the actual use of the speech recognition system so as to accommodate any particularly desirable speech recognition situation. In the most useful instances the data values that populate the specified database will be obtained from historical data and text strings that accompany a particular use and application of the speech recognition system.

Supplemental data may also accompany the data values and text strings stored within specified database . In particular weightings and prioritization information may be included as part of the textual data records that are to be matched to the input speech. These weightings may help determine which data values are selected when several possible data values are matched as possible outputs in response to a particular speech input. Further these weighting and prioritization information may be dynamically updated during the course of the operation of the speech recognition system to reflect prior speech input. Those of skill in the art will realize a plurality of ways in which the data elements within the specified database may be rearranged and conditioned so as to provide an optimal first pass database for use in the speech recognition system of the present invention.

Referring again to the speech recognition voice transcription system of the present invention further includes a context identification module . The context identification module is coupled to one or more input and recognition components of the overall speech recognition system and is used to select or create a proper sub database within the entire specified database . If for example the desired sub databases to be used are based on a user context then the context identification module may take input from a user identification device not shown or may determine the user from speech characteristics determined by the speech recognition software so as to select an appropriate user sub database e.g. from the entire specified database . Alternatively the data values within the specified database may be loosely organized and the context identification module may actually condition the data values so as to dynamically create an appropriate user sub database from the information stored within the specified database. As another example the context identification module may monitor and interpret a particular form field that is active within an application into which text input is to be provided. After making such a determination the context identification module may select or as mentioned above actually condition the data values so as to dynamically create an appropriate user sub database from the information stored within the specified database.

Referring again to the speech recognition voice transcription system of the present invention may further include a prioritization module . As with the context identification module the prioritization module may be coupled to any one or more input and recognition components within the overall speech recognition system including the specified database . As mentioned above and provided in more detail below the prioritization module assists in collecting actual use information from the speech recognition system and using that data to dynamically prioritize the data values within any or all of the sub databases contained within specified database .

In one particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention specified database contains text strings as selectable data values for input into medical forms in a word processing application . The text strings may be organized according to a number of different criteria based on the users of the forms and or the fields within the electronic forms. As shown in a computer based electronic medical form shows several fields within a medical report. For example computerized electronic form may include a name field an address field a phone number field as well as more general fields such as a findings field and an interpretations field . One possible organization of the text string data values within specified database is to associate each text string with each field within a particular electronic form. As shown in text string sub database may be associated with name field text string sub database may be associated with address field and text string sub database may be associated with findings field . In this particular example two separate organizations of the text strings exist within specified text string sub databases through . For single context fields the name field for example sub database may contain text strings that only indicate patient s names. Likewise text string sub database associated with address field of electronic computer form may contain only text strings associated with street addresses.

It should be noted that the data organizations referenced by in FIGS. and in are logical organizations only. The data records within specified database may be organized arranged and interrelated in any one of a number of ways two of which are shown in . Referring to the organization of the records within specified database may be loose i.e. all records may be within one file where each record and output text string contains a plethora of relational information. Option A. The relational information within the singular file would then presumably be able to be used to create the logical divisions shown in . One example of a sub database might be a field context sub database for example where the relational data pertaining to the form field within file is used to organize the sub database. Alternatively organization of the records within specified database may be tight i.e. records and output text strings may be highly organized according to context field user such that a one to one relationship exists between a particular file of records sub database and a form field or user as shown in option B of . While the organization provided in option B may require more computer memory because of the information redundancy needed to create all the discrete sub databases this disadvantage in the overall database size may be offset by the advantage of having smaller physical files that can be more quickly swapped in and out of computer memory within the speech recognition system. In general those of skill in the art will realize that different organizations of the same data will provide various advantages and that such data may be organized to optimize any one of number of parameters and or the overall system operation so as to enhance the advantages of the present invention. Finally a combination of both database organizations could be used to provide a system that has the advantages of the present invention.

Regardless of the data organization of specified database two types of specified sub databases are contemplated by the present invention. The first type may be classified as a singular context sub database in that one specific criterion provides the motivation for grouping and organizing the records to create the sub database. One specific embodiment of the specified this type of sub database of is shown in more detail in where text string records containing street addresses are stored within sub database in tabular format. In this particular embodiment individual records and contain text strings of previously dictated specified street addresses which are provided for the purpose of matching a user s speech input when the address field is the active dictation field. Other data such as weighting information and user s data may also be included within text string sub database . With reference to the specific example of the data records within the sub database contain text strings and accompanying relational data intended for use only within a specific field within a computerized form or web page. Other specified sub databases similar to may contain text strings and accompanying relational data that is intended for use with only one of the users of the speech recognition system.

In a second sub database type multiple context organizations of the data within specified database are also created. For example medical form of may contain input fields that are related to other input fields within the overall electronic form. This interrelationship typically occurs when the voice dictation provided as an input to a field within an electronic form is of a more general nature. In particular the organization of the text strings within a sub database may not be based on a single external context such as a specific user of the system or a particular field within an electronic form but rather may be based on the interrelation of the actual text strings in a more complex manner. As one example context specific sub databases pertaining to the medical findings field and pertaining to the medical interpretations field may include contextually intertwined text strings that the speech recognition system of the present invention must identify and properly select so as to achieve the efficiencies of the present invention. These more complex contextually intertwined text string sub databases are shown as logical sub databases in .

A simplified example of the above mentioned text string interrelation is provided below. As shown in sub database provides text strings that may be input into findings field and sub database provides text strings that may be input into interpretations field . However unlike a field with a limited rage of accepted input within the electronic computer form the name field for example sub database is designed to match text strings to a more general and varied voice input provided to the speech recognition system. shows one specific embodiment of the specified text string sub database of . Sub database provides text string records related to medical interpretations which are stored within sub database in tabular format. In this particular embodiment individual records and contain text strings from previously dictated specified interpretations which are provided for the purpose of matching a user s speech input when the interpretations field is the active dictation field. Other relational data such as weighting information and interrelational context information e.g. age user findings may also be included within text string sub database . In the example of interpretations text strings such as pneumonia and dysphagia are provided as potential text strings to be evaluated against a user s dictation to provide a text input to the interpretations field.

Also shown in are two similar sounding medical terms that have entirely different meanings dysphagia a difficulty in swallowing and dysphasia an impairment of speech consisting in lack of coordination and failure to arrange words in a proper order. The interpretations sub database includes both textual inputs as records and respectively. Exemplary interrelational data are also included as data within the text records record of the sub database. Such data include a patient s history a user of the system the specific findings regarding the patient as well as a general historical weighting based on the number of times the two term have been used . During a dictation into the interpretations field of electronic form table is loaded and consulted to achieve the best possible textual input for dictated speech. If for example the phonetically similar word dysphagia dysphasia is dictated into the system of the present invention then the context interpretation module would evaluate that voice input in view of any one or combination of contextual data. In one case if the patient s past medical history included digestive complaints then the more probable textual match dysphagia may be selected. Similarly if the patient s past medical history included neurological complaints the term dysphasia may be selected. Similarly the context identification module may rely upon other relational data associated with the two text strings to determine the highest probability input. If Dr. Brown is a pediatrician and Dr. Smith is a geriatric physician then appropriate weight may also be given by the selection system to these previous inputs in determining the proper text input for the interpretations field. Likewise the input to the findings field may be considered in which a difficulty swallowing would result in a more likely match with dysphagia and speech impairment would result in a more likely indication of dysphasia. In addition other simple weighting factors such as the number of times each term has been used previously may also be used by the system of the present invention to select a more probable input text string. Finally the system of the present invention may use one many or all of the aforementioned contextual relationships to determine and select the proper text input possibly after assigning additional weighting function to the interrelational data itself i.e. weighting a user s context higher than the age context.

In operation a user of the speech recognition system of the present invention inputs speech to microphone for processing by speech recognition system . As a stand alone system speech recognition system package typically provides a single general or base vocabulary database that acts as a first and only database. Because of the size of the database and the general nature of the language and the text strings contained within it voice to text transcription accuracies may vary when the speech recognition system is used only with such large non specific vocabularies. In medical contexts for example inaccuracies in transcription of dictation may result in undesirable or even disastrous consequences. Thus the inaccuracies generally tolerated by system users must be improved. Greater transcription accuracy as well as consistency in the dictation within fields of an electronic computer based form for example may be achieved through the use of multiple databases containing text strings previously used in different contexts. Specifically through the proper selection of a first pass database containing a limited but specialized vocabulary and the insertion of this first pass database into the existing processing used by commercial voice transcription systems the transcription accuracies of these systems can be markedly improved. Failing a match in the more specific first pass database the speech recognition system can always default to the more general base vocabulary to provide a textual match for the dictated input.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the specified database is used by the speech recognition system of the present invention as a first pass database in selecting an appropriate textual match to the input speech . The context identification module is responsible for selecting and loading or creating a particular sub database from specified database during a user s dictation so as to provide a high probability of a hit within that sub database. The selection process employed by context identification module is based on a context of the input speech or a context within the dictation environment. Possible contexts include but are not limited to a particular user of the speech recognition system a particular field within an electronic form being processed by the speech recognition system or the interrelation of previously input text with a sub database of text that is likely to be dictated based thereon.

Thus the inherent value of specified database lies in its historical precedent as optionally conditioned with weighting functions that are applied to the text strings within the database. Thus the creation of a specified database is central to its effective use within the speech recognition system of the present invention.

Specified database may be created in any of a number of manners. In one particularly preferred embodiment past forms may be scanned and digitally input into a computer system such that all the text strings used within those computer forms are digitized parsed and then stored within the database. The text strings may then be subdivided into specific databases that are applicable to specific speech recognition circumstances. For example with respect to the example of addresses sub database shown in a series of previously recorded paper or electronic medical forms may be parsed separated and stored such that all the street addresses used on those forms are stored in a separate portion of database . Likewise findings within field and interpretations within field of the electronic form in may be subdivided from general text string database to create a specific contextual database of diagnoses for use with a particular medical form. As previously described those of skill in the art will recognize that specified database may be organized in any one of a number of different ways to suit the particular needs of a particular speech recognition application such as textual input into an electronic form. Such organization may take place statically i.e. before the user employs the voice transcription system or dynamically i.e. during the use of the voice transcription system. In the dynamic context certain relationships among sub databases may also be leveraged to provide inputs between computerized form fields.

Referring to a general process flow is provided for the operation of speech recognition system . The process starts with step in which the speech recognition system is loaded and has begun to operate. Specified vocabulary databases may be defined and loaded here for a particular more global use during the remainder of this process. Next a user of the system is identified at step . As one example the user may be a particular doctor who wishes to provide speech input to a medical form as part of his practice within a practice group or a medical office. As described above this user ID may later be used to select appropriate sub databases and associated text strings from specified database . User identification may be done through speech recognition keyboard entry fingerprinting or by any means presently known or heretofore developed. Next voice input from the user is provided to the speech recognition system in step . This vocal input is digitized for use within computer system which is then input into the speech recognition system employed on that computer system as shown in step .

Next the context identification module selects or creates an appropriate sub database consisting of a subset of the text strings within database as the system s operative first pass database at step . As described above the selection of an appropriate sub database may occur according to any one or more of a number of different criteria. In one particularly preferred embodiment the criterion on which the sub database is selected is based upon the user of the voice transcription system as provided in step . Specifically any particular user may have a historical use of certain words and phrases which may serve as a higher probability first pass source of text string data for future use by that particular user. Thus the appropriate selection of that database will result in higher transcription accuracy and use within the speech recognition system.

According to another particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention the sub database is selected from the specified database at step according to the field within the electronic form into which text is being input. For example referring to when a user wishes to populate address field with a particular address the user would indicate to the system at step e.g. through a computer graphical user interface or a vocal command input that the address field is to be populated. The speech recognition software of the present invention then selects or creates an appropriate sub database from specified database that contains at least the addresses for use within that form field. The actual data selected and pulled by the context identification module as mentioned above would typically include related contextual information that would provide insight into the historical use of particular addresses so as to provide a higher probability in transcription accuracy.

Referring back to the speech input provided by the user to the speech recognition system at step is evaluated by that system with respect to the text strings within the sub database selected in step . This evaluation may be performed according to the same algorithms and processes used within the speech recognition system which are used to select matching text from its own base vocabulary in database . Various methods and mechanisms by which the input speech is parsed and converted to a language output and or text string output are well known in the art and these text matching mechanisms and evaluation criteria are independent of the other aspects of the present invention. Furthermore other known evaluation criteria may be used on the overall database or the sub database selected in step . Such evaluation methods are well known although particular evaluation criteria that are applicable to speech recognition principles may also be employed when populating a field within an electronic form. As an example the specific text strings of a particular sub database such as that shown in may include a weighting function as shown in field of sub database . The weighting field for example may include the number of times a particular address has been input into a form within a specific historical period. Even with this over simplified weighting scheme ambiguities as between two very similar addresses may be easily resolved in determining a proper textual match corresponding to a speech input. Other weighting schemes using both objective indicia e.g. data use count and subjective indicia e.g. weights related to the data itself and its interrelation with other data are well known in the art and may also be included within specific database for use in the context identification module. Further other evaluation criteria may be used to select an input text string from the sub database. For example a most recently used algorithm may be used to select data that may be more pertinent with respect to a particular transcription. Other weighting and evaluation criteria are well known and those of skill in the art will appreciate different ways to organize and prioritize the data so as to achieve optimal transcription accuracy. Finally a prioritization module may be included as part of the speech recognition system of the present invention to implement and manage the above mentioned weighting and prioritization functions.

If the evaluation of the voice input at step results in a match within the selected sub database of text strings according to the evaluation criterion then that text string is selected as an output at step and the text string is used to populate the desired field within the electronic form at step . Alternatively if the evaluation criteria is not met at step the speech recognition system within the present invention would default to base vocabulary database at step at which point the speech recognition software would transcribe the user s voice input in its usual fashion to select a text string output step according to its own best recognition principles and output the same to the electronic form step .

It should be recognized that the steps provided in may be repetitively performed in a number of different ways. For example as one particular electronic form is filled out sequential fields within that form need to be designated and then populated with an appropriate text string. As such following the insertion of a particular text string within a particular form field the process of may return to step where the user inputs additional speech input after selecting the new field into which the vocal input is to be transcribed. During this second iteration a second appropriate sub database of text strings from specified database would be selected as an appropriate first pass database for the second field. The process of evaluating and matching the user s vocal input with text strings within the second sub database i.e. steps through would operate as mentioned above.

In another operative alternative a second user may employ the speech recognition system of the present invention in response to which different sub databases of text strings would to be loaded that pertain to the specific use of that second user at step . In this iterative process a second user would be identified at step after which the speech input provided by that second user would be digitized and processed by the speech recognition system at step . The selection and or creation step may or may not be performed again and may be omitted if the only sub database selection step is conditioned upon a user. The remainder of the process provided in may then be performed to select an appropriate text string as input into the fields of the electronic form for that second user.

Specific scenarios in which the present invention might be used in a medical office are provided below.

A new radiologist joins a group of radiologists who have been using voice recognition technology to dictate reports for about two years. Their practice has a four year old database of digitally recorded imaging studies linked to a database of the past two years of computer transcribed reports as well as several years of prior reports manually transcribed to computer by transcriptionists listening to voice recordings. The new radiologist has trained the voice engine to recognize his voice as a new user by engaging in a set of radiology voice training exercises that are customized to include phrases commonly used by other members of his group.

If the new radiologist s first assignment using the system of the present invention is to dictate a report on a sinus CT scan the radiologist would identify this report as being for a sinus CT scan and click on the findings field at which time the program will load a specified vocabulary for first pass pre screening composed of text strings that other members of the group have previously used in their dictations as input to the findings field for sinus CT scans.

Since the new radiologist is more likely to use terms previously used by his colleagues in dictating reports of previous sinus CT scans than other x ray related terms that that are phonetically similar pre screening the new radiologist s dictation to match text strings previously used by his colleagues for example in the findings field will deliver a higher transcription accuracy than the use of a general radiology dictionary or a full English language vocabulary. This is so even if the general radiology vocabulary has been enriched by learning the preferred terminology and syntax of his colleagues. When the radiologist advances to the interpretations field the virtual vocabulary previously loaded for the findings field will be unloaded and replaced by a similarly selected virtual vocabulary for the interpretations field.

As the new radiologist uses the system the prioritization algorithm administered by the prioritization module for his specific user sub database files may assign relatively higher prioritization scores to his own dictated text strings vis a via the dictated text of his colleagues. Over time it will adapt to his personal style further improving transcription accuracy.

Assume that on his second day of work the new radiologist is assigned to read studies of the digestive system and his first two cases are barium swallow studies of the upper gastrointestinal tract. The first case is for the evaluation of a two month old infant suffering from vomiting and the second case is a follow up study for an 87 year old man with esophageal strictures. While the study is the same his findings and interpretations in the two cases are likely to be different. Depending on the number of prior reports in his practice group s database the transcription accuracy of the new radiologist s reports may be maximized by applying more complex prioritization and selection algorithms to the selection of previously used phrases to be loaded for first pass pre screening. The weighting of previously used text strings and the selection of those data items as first pass text strings values for these reports could result in the assignment of multipliers to those data items. These weights could be updated not only each time the first pass text strings were previously used but also based on the type of study the age of patient and the diagnoses or symptoms listed as reasons for physician s request in ordered the study. For the above mentioned infant weighting factors for text string prioritization and selection could for example be based on prior frequency of use in reports of all barium swallow studies in children aged less than 6 months or less than one year. For the 87 year old man such prioritization could for example be based on the frequency of use of those text strings in reporting barium swallow studies in patients in any one or more of the following classes patients more than age 60 70 80 use of those text strings in reporting barium swallow studies in males in these age ranges prior use of those text strings in reporting barium swallow studies in patients with a prior diagnosis of esophageal stricture prior use of those text strings in reporting barium swallow studies of patients with a prior diagnosis of esophageal stricture by age and or sex and or the presence or absence of other symptoms such as swallowing pain or vomiting . Finally the weighting factors related to the presence or absence of a symptom including associated diagnoses such as status post radiation therapy for a specific type of lung cancer may be listed in the ordering physician s request for the procedure or may already be present in the database of prior diagnoses for that patient.

There may be an increased likelihood that text strings will be used in a radiology report if they have previously been used in reporting the same type of study or a related study for the same patient as when high resolution chest tomography is ordered as a follow up to an abnormal chest x ray . Dictation transcription accuracy may thus be improved by a prioritization algorithm that assigns increased weight to text strings that are previously used in reporting studies with these types of relationship to a study currently being conducted.

The larger the group of users that share common data and voice match text string sources the greater the extent to which increasingly complex prioritization algorithms can increase transcription accuracy. In certain context driven applications such as dictations related to the practice of medicine the greater the linkage of source dictated text to the text strings from which it came the better the ability to retrospectively analyze prioritization algorithm performance and compare the efficiency of the first pass vocabulary based on different weighting assignments for different factors in the prioritization algorithm. This makes it possible to create first pass databases for user in large installations as they accumulate data with use thereby allowing complex prioritization algorithms to be optimized based on their own prior experiences.

A physician dictates into either a computerized medical record database or a structured consultation report form as he examines a patient in an office setting. In this scenario the medical report will usually begin with a listing of the problem s for which patient is being seen. These factors in addition to age and sex server as effective weighting factors so as to allow the prioritization of previously used text strings and load the most probable first pass text strings for each report. Previous diagnoses if noted in an initial consultation or if already present in the database from previous diagnosis of the same patient may also be useful as text string weighting factors for sub database prioritization and selection. If the patient has been previously seen and his or her own previous reports are included in the same database it may be efficient to assign a first multiplier or weighting factor to every prior text string used in previous reports for that patient and another multiplier or weighting factor for each text string uses in the reports for which each specific diagnosis is listed among the reasons or problems assessed at this visit.

With respect to electronic forms a computerized medical record has functionally separate data fields. In addition other types of medical reports have structured sections. Speech recognition transcription accuracy for each such application can be enhanced through the prioritization and selection of first pass text string databases for each such field on the basis of numerous factors including but not limited to the age and sex of the patient problems listed as reason for that patient s visit or to be determined during that patient s visit previously recorded diagnoses for that patient previous use of text strings to be prioritized by that physician in reports for that patient previous use of those text strings with that combination of other selection factors by that physician for other patients and or previous use with that combination of other factors by other members of that specialty.

As in Example 1 as each office that uses the present invention accumulates data it becomes possible to retrospectively analyze prioritization algorithm performance and compare the first pass hit efficiency of different weighting assignments for different factors in the prioritization algorithm. This allows the initial data record selection scheme to be optimized and permits for a quantitative analysis of the relative efficiency of various prioritization models and weightings for the various offices.

The specific embodiment of the present invention provided above is somewhat idealistic in that it presumes that commercially available speech recognition software provides for dynamically loadable databases and the possibility to hierarchically direct the speech recognition software to sequentially search several such loaded databases including possibly the general or base vocabulary that the software is programmed to operate with for most other dictations. Unfortunately none of the speech recognition software packages examined include these general capabilities. Thus certain improvisations have been made with respect to an existing speech recognition software package in order to practice the advantages of the present invention as described below.

In one particular application the speech recognition software interfaces with computer operating systems according to an industry standard called the Speech Application Programming Interface protocol abbreviated SAPI. SAPI was originally designed for the Microsoft Windows operating systems. During the 1990 s a similar protocol called SRAPI was developed for non Windows operating systems but SRAPI lost support in the computer industry and current versions of SAPI have been applied to non Windows as well as Windows operating systems.

SAPI and in its day SRAPI provide for computer based responses to three types of speech input application defined commands user defined commands both referred to hereinafter as commands and general dictation of vocabulary. A signal representing an incoming item of speech is first screened by the program to see if it represents a command such as New paragraph and if so executes it as such. Within speech recognition applications such as a word processor this command may cause the insertion of a paragraph break a new line feed and an indent so as to permit the continued dictation in a new paragraph. Incoming speech items that are not recognized as commands are transcribed as general vocabulary text in which the speech recognition software looks for the best possible match for the dictated text within combinations of single word text strings loaded into the general vocabulary database of the application.

Current versions of the SAPI protocol and current voice engines only accommodate the loading of one vocabulary at a time. However they accept rapid loading and unloading of smaller sets of user defined commands. These smaller sets may be as large as the relatively small first pass vocabularies needed to optimize speech recognition accuracy for dictation into a computer field. The invention of the present invention encompasses methods to identify prioritize and select the high probability text strings which would optimize transcription accuracy if used as a first pass pre screening vocabulary. These text strings may then be translated into user defined commands which are loaded and screened for matches as a first pass virtual vocabulary. In this manner the existing speech recognition systems have been tricked into implementing a two pass vocabulary screening model as described above under present SAPI protocols and with presently available voice engines. Incorporation of the methods and apparatus of the present invention would be made more user friendly by incorporating the entirety of this invention into future versions of SAPI and into applications compliant with such future versions of SAPI.

Referring to a general process flow for the operation of the speech recognition system is provided as it would be implemented within a specific SAPI speech recognition engine. In general the steps are substantially similar to those provided in with the following modifications. At step Instead of evaluating the speech input against a set of text strings in the selected created database the process of sequentially evaluates the speech input first against the database of system commands and then if necessary against the database of user defined commands and then if necessary against the database of a first vocabulary and then if necessary against the database of a second vocabulary and finally if necessary against a final database . If a match is determined during any one of these evaluations steps then either the command is executed steps or a learning function is exercised steps and the executed command or selected text from a database results in the generation and insertion of the selected text string into a computer form field step .

With specific application to Example 1 provided above the method of the present invention provided in the flow diagram of and may be modified to operation more efficiently by including some of the elements of the process shown in . For each context of user radiologist type of imaging study as chest x ray or sinus CT patient demographics including age sex past medical history reason for this study and field of report first pass vocabulary may be provided which includes previous dictations by the same user when all the other variables were identical. The second pass vocabulary may be provided which includes dictations by other members of the radiology group when all other variables were the same as those of the present report. The third pass vocabulary may be provided which includes other dictations by the present radiologist into the same field for the same type of study but for patients with all combinations of age sex past medical history and reason for study. Thus a multiple pass series of specific context dependant sub databases may be provided in actual application before the base vocabulary of the speech recognition software is employed to provide a match.

In operation and as described in the above mentioned application known transcription methods include vector learning in which the speech engine alters the way it maps incoming utterances into the vector space. If for example a native Bostonian speaker of English used the speech recognition system a translation of sorts is needed for the speech engine to process the user s incoming speech so that the appropriate vocabulary is matched with the speaker s utterances. This is typically handled by speech engines through a training process in which the user reads for several minutes from text for which the vector mapping sequence is already known to the system and the program develops an array of user specific vector corrections to optimize the match between the vector sequence of the user s pattern of utterances and the vector sequence of the text he s reading. Through this training process the speech engine may adjust for a speaker s accent and or other speaker specific or speaker associated variations from typical patterns of pronunciation. Although vector learning will affect the overall recognition accuracy of a speech recognition application it is perfectly compatible with the teachings of the present invention which may be used in conjunction to select the users intended word from a group of vocabulary returned by the speech engine.

In operation and as described in the above mentioned application known transcription methods include scalar learning which involves the weighting of different vocabulary items based on prior use. Scalar learning in essence makes one vocabulary element in the vector space brighter or dimmer than an average based on the frequency of past use say for example by a particular user of the system. Thus the probability of matching a user s input in vector space becomes a function of both the speech engine s provided probability of matching a user s input based on the actual input received and the frequency of use of other less frequently used vocabulary elements. Thus it is envisioned that developers of a speech engine may begin with large vocabularies that may have default weightings of certain vocabulary elements based on frequency of use in general speech which are then further modified by the frequency of use by each or a particular individual user.

The goal of speech recognition software is to minimize the frequency of transcription errors errors will occur particularly as the system learns the dictation habits of new users new form fields and vocabulary contexts any of which include new vocabulary elements. In many dictation transcription speech recognition applications dictation errors in which the user utters the wrong word and transcription errors in which the speech recognition system misidentifies what was said are not likely to be recognized and corrected until some time after the dictation is completed often on the order of hours and typically up to days after the dictation has been completed. Because scalar learning is based on the frequency with which various text elements have been used in the past i.e. accepted as accurate transcriptions accurate scalar learning requires that feedback be included. This typically takes the form of post dictation off line correction of dictation and transcription errors to the vocabulary data elements that were erroneously selected. There are a number of technologies that do this in speech engines that operate with single vocabularies. In particular any of these technologies may be used for the large non specific vocabularies such as those typically provided as the last vocabulary pass according to the method of the present invention. The present invention makes simpler strategies possible however for the situation specific vocabularies as described briefly below.

As with any transcription and dictation system the designers of applications using them are most likely forced to choose between either 1 a gold standard of scalar learning or weighting in situational vocabularies based on what was intended or what was determined to be correctly intended to have been said in which case the speech engine should reflect the correction of both dictation and transcription errors or 2 a gold standard based on what was determined to have actually been said in which case the speech engine should reflect the correction of transcription errors but not dictation errors. Further compromises and accommodations may be needed depending on how data is stored particularly if it is locked as is required in many medical record applications.

In one particularly preferred embodiment of the enhanced invention the specific vocabularies of the present invention consist of searchable text entered in a date and time stamped manner into forms and fields identifiable by user and context. Off line error correction is performed by amending text directly in the fields into which it was dictated in the database so that new scans and word use counts of those fields will incorporate these corrections to generate situation specific vocabularies for future use. Further text amendments may be made directly to the database when it is open or unlocked for correction. In one preferred implementation of the present invention it is envisioned that the scalar learning will be based on text that incorporates correction of both dictation and transcription errors as opposed to attempting to account for categorize and record the nature of the dictation errors as between dictation corrections or transcription corrections.

In several envisioned applications of the present invention such as electronic medical records the input data from the speech engine is locked when it is signed. In this case it may not be practical to include corrections made to records after they have been locked in the subsequent vocabulary and the vocabulary element weighting scheme may depend on how data is stored. Most programs that require data locking still allow subsequent error correction and annotation although they often require that a copy of the original dictation be retained along with a record of the user making the changes and time stamp indicating the time of the changes. If this is done in a way that leaves the amended record in the original database presumably in which the original dictation and audit trail data are store elsewhere it is advantageous to work directly with the amended data which can be appropriately weighted and used to populate the database. Alternatively if the original record remains in the database and amendments to the speech input are made after that data is locked and stored elsewhere in the system it may be advantageous to base scalar learning i.e. weighting on a scan of the database although in this case it will not include correction of either dictation or transcription errors that were found and corrected after the record was signed and locked.

The user will generally be known to the system. If database entries are appropriately indexed or tagged using standard methods when a registered user loads a specific form and enters a specific field of this form the system can quickly compile the programmed hierarchy of vocabularies to be matched with incoming speech in that field of that form and for applications which also sort data by previously entered indicators of context. Example Radiology transcription installation in which name of patient demographic data including age and sex the x ray or other imaging study being reported and relevant clinical history including the reason for the procedure have already been entered each one of these data items and every combination constitutes a context defining a set of past records from which content can be pulled for the smallest highest match likelihood vocabularies. If the radiologist mentions the word fracture in the findings field this term can be used further define the context and guide vocabulary selection for the discussion or interpretations field.

According to an enhancement to the present invention the incoming speech from a user is compared with the hierarchical sequence of vocabularies moving from the most specific to the most general. With respect to the sequential vocabularies themselves they may be ordered according to any one of a number of criteria to match a particular need. By way of example the vocabularies may be created and provided in an order of frequency of use say for user each vocabulary containing frequently used vocabulary elements of a particular user. Again by way of example vocabularies which are used to provide an input to a particular form field may be created and ordered in terms of the relative frequency of input of various terms historically input to that form field. Also by way of example the vocabularies may be created and ordered in terms of the relative frequency of use of terms according to a particular context of speech use e.g. medicine or law . Combinations and permutations of these factors may also be used to create and order vocabularies from appropriate vocabulary elements so as to achieve appropriate speech engine matching results in any particular circumstance. In a particularly preferred embodiment the first vocabulary contains terms from the same user into the same field for the same context. Subsequently screened less specific vocabularies may contain vocabularies from the same user for the same context in any field.

As a specific example of sequential vocabulary ordering the vocabularies of the present invention may be organized according to the following doctor specific example 

In operation and in contrast to the sequential match or no match decision on a vocabulary by vocabulary basis previously described the enhanced invention saves the best matches based on a match probability score returned by the speech engine from each sequentially searched vocabulary. This set of best matches from the first and generally most situation specific vocabulary of the hierarchy is then combined with a set of best matches from the next sequential vocabulary to be tested in the hierarchy with the assignment of increased match likelihood weight to those from the first vocabulary to reflect the greater situation specificity of that vocabulary. This process may be repeated so that all vocabularies in the hierarchy are searched and each saved element is assigned an increased selection weight each time it survives the transition from the set of best matches at the end of one cycle of the process to the set of best matches at the end of the next cycle. The speech engine then chooses its best match as it would in the absence of this invention except that with the invention the selection likelihood of each term surviving from earlier more situation specific vocabularies is increased in correlation with the situation specificity of the vocabulary in which it first appeared.

Alternatively and possibly in order to keep the speech engine selection process manageable each subset of combined set of vocabulary elements may be reduced in size according to the weighted matched probability scores say to keep it to n entries as the sequence of vocabularies are processed so that the combined set of vocabulary elements does not grow beyond a manageable size during the process.

Referring now to the process provided in incoming analog speech is received digitized and framed and acoustic information for vector mapping is extracted . As an example and not necessarily a necessary component of the enhanced invention the acoustic information is sequentially matched with system commands and user defined commands to determine an input match. It is envisioned that in some speech processing systems the user has the option to determine whether an utterance will be exclusively treated as a command for example in some systems by pressing the keyboard key during dictation in which case the speech processing system may only matches and or as speech for example in the same systems by pressing the keyboard key during dictation in which case the speech processing system bypasses matches and and begins with speech vocabulary match step . If an incoming utterance is not matched with a system or user defined command steps and or if the user bypasses these steps by marking the utterance as text the enhanced invention of the present invention includes the following sequence of events.

Preliminary to the operation of the enhanced method the sequential vocabularies to be used may be selected and dynamically updated according to any one or more of the criteria mentioned above e.g. user form field or context. After establishing the proper sequential vocabularies the first vocabulary is selected and loaded with each entry weighted according to an algorithm based on factors which may include but are not limited to user prior use in that combination of form field context and time elapsed since each prior use. The speech engine then matches the contents of the first vocabulary with the incoming utterance not according to the language rules of the particular search engine and match probability scoring procedure used by that speech engine . N potential matches are then identified using highest match probability scores and saved along with their scores in a designated array of data registers within the speech processing engine . Each saved match probability score is then weighted by a vocabulary priority factor vpf 1. By weighting a simple multiplication function may be used by the speech engine particularly if the match probability scores are numbered on a linear scale. In any case a weighting function is used to increase the match probability score for the n initially selected vocabulary elements from the first vocabulary . These n best match candidates with weighted match probability scores are then stored .

The second vocabulary is then loaded possibly having each vocabulary entry weighted according to an algorithm based on the above mentioned factors . The speech engine then matches the contents of the second vocabulary with the incoming utterance not according to the language rules of the particular search engine and match probability scoring procedure used by that speech engine . N potential matches are then identified using highest match probability scores and saved along with their scores in a designated array of data registers within the speech processing engine . These n potential matches are then combined with the n weighted matches from the first evaluation so as to create a combined set of vocabulary elements. Each of the saved match probability scores of the vocabulary elements within the combined set of vocabulary elements is then weighted by a second vocabulary priority factor vpf 2 . By weighting a simple multiplication function may be used by the speech engine particularly if the match probability scores are numbered on a linear scale. In any case a weighting function is used to increase the match probability score for each element of the new combined vocabulary that will be pooled with the best selections from another still less situation specific vocabulary in the next cycle . These best match candidates with weighted match probability scores are then stored .

As an alternative to the procedure in which all weighted n results from the first vocabulary and the n vocabulary elements from the second vocabulary are combined and weighed by the second vocabulary priority factor vpf 2 the set of vocabulary elements for matching and storage may be maintained at a particular or constant size e.g. n so as not to grow the set of combined vocabulary elements to a computationally unwieldy number of elements.

The method of the enhanced speech recognition system continues iteratively until the v th vocabulary is loaded possibly having each vocabulary entry weighted according to an algorithm based on the above mentioned factors . The speech engine then matches the contents of the v th vocabulary with the incoming utterance according to the language rules of the particular search engine and match probability scoring procedure used by that speech engine . N potential matches are then identified using highest match probability scores and saved along with their scores in a designated array of data registers within the speech processing engine . These n potential matches are then combined dashed line to with the n weighted matches from the previous evaluation so as to create a combined set of vocabulary elements. Each of the saved match probability scores of the vocabulary elements within the combined set of vocabulary elements is then weighted by a v th vocabulary priority factor vpf v . By weighting a simple multiplication function may be used by the speech engine particularly if the match probability scores are numbered on a linear scale. In any case a weighting function is used to increase the match probability score for the n initially selected vocabulary elements from the v th vocabulary . These best match candidates with weighted match probability scores are then stored .

As an additional optional step a final large e.g. all encompassing global vocabulary is loaded possibly having each vocabulary entry weighted according to an algorithm based on the above mentioned factors . The speech engine then matches the contents of the large vocabulary with the incoming utterance according to the language rules of the particular search engine and match probability scoring procedure used by that speech engine . N potential matches are then identified using highest match probability scores and saved along with their scores in a designated array of data registers within the speech processing engine . These n potential matches are then combined with the n weighted matches from the previous evaluation so as to create a combined set of vocabulary elements. If desirable each of the saved match probability scores of the vocabulary elements within the combined set of vocabulary elements is then weighted by a final large vocabulary priority factor vpf I not shown . These best match candidates with weighted match probability scores are then stored .

As a final step the speech engine selects a best match for the user input to the speech recognition system a vocabulary element from the combined set of vocabulary elements based on said repeatedly weighted match probability scores so as to result in a final match for the user input . The final match is then stored for further retrieval by the speech engine. In the unlikely event that that user designates the best selected match as an error the other next closest sequential matches may also be stored for presentation and selection by the user as potential matches to the user s input. In this event a flagging system may be included so that the user may designate the particular input and initially selected match as an error for future dictation correction.

Referring now to the process provided in several key differences are provided from the process provided in connection with where non linear weighting is involved. In particular when non linear weighting is involved it may be critical to first combine the n best vocabulary elements from the currently selected vocabulary with the weighted vocabulary elements from the previously evaluated vocabulary prior to the application of the weighting function. Specifically steps and as shown with respect to the second vocabulary of . As an example of the complication with non linear weighting functions the table below shows the calculations necessary to evaluate one example of a non linear weighting function.

In particular assume that a particular search engine assigns a match score s to each vocabulary element that passes the initial screening as shown and provided in column 1 in table 1 below 

For the first pass vocabulary shown as 1 in column 0 the respective match probability scores for the three selected vocabulary elements are 1 3 and 5 and for the second pass vocabulary the respective match probability scores for the three selected vocabulary elements are shown as 2 3 and 5. Assume that the non linear weighting function is a simple exponential function of the form r s 2 105 and that the calculated values for r are provided for vocabulary 1 as provided in column 2 of table 1. Now by calculation of the sum of all the weighed probabilities is 263 which when shown as a fractional representation of the numerical probability of each of the six vocabulary elements the sum of which is one is provided in column 4. Now assume that the first vocabulary prioritization factor is 1.1 the preliminary values for the weighted first three vocabulary elements are shown as the first three values in column 6 of . The problem at hand now is to calculate the same respective weighted values for the for the three vocabulary elements of the second vocabulary such that the total sum of the probability of the search engine choosing one of the values is still equal to one. Thus looking at the total of the weighted first three vocabulary elements from the first vocabulary 137.5 this is subtracted from the original total of 263 to give a distributed sum of 125.5 to be allocated in appropriate proportion over the three vocabulary elements of vocabulary 2. When doing so the three approximate target values of 21.82 35.47 and 68.20 are shown to result in column 6 for those elements.

Now as a final calculation to arrive at u values which the speech engine can employ the quadratic equation is used to calculate and derive the modified first and the modified second match probability scores for the vocabulary elements of the first and second vocabularies. The positive roots of the quadratic equation given the values of a b and c provided in columns 7 8 and 9 respectively are shown in column 12 as the final exponentially weighted match probability scores for the six vocabulary elements in the table of . Further the non linear non constant effective multiplicative value for each of the individual vocabulary elements is shown in column 14. In sum the non linear weighting has required that the vocabulary elements of the two respective vocabulary match sets be combined prior to the derivation of the effective multiplicative factor that would provide the same weighted value as shown by way of example in steps and of for the second vocabulary match.

According to the present technologies available with existing commercial speech engines very little modification of the speech engine s potential match results is permitted by those engines in response to dictated input. In particular the default vocabulary element databases within the existing commercial speech recognition systems are predefined in term of content and the only ability to enhance the database contents is provided through certain importation functions which permit external vocabulary elements to be imported and combined with the default vocabulary elements of the speech engine database. Further each presently available commercial speech recognition systems provides its own default weightings and prioritizations to the resultant vocabulary element match sets as provided by the speech engine in response to speech input. As the use of the speech engine technologies extends into more mainstream applications it may become desirable to modify the search results provided by the commercial speech engine based on a particular use context or records database with which the speech engine is being used. Specifically it may come to be realized that the continuous swapping of vocabularies in and out of memory and appropriate integration with the speech engine may become computationally difficult or simply inefficient. To account for this without causing significant disruption of the operation of existing commercial speech engines a virtual vocabulary that is specific to a particular context or records database may be created on the outside of the speech engine. This virtual vocabulary may be tightly coupled to the particular context of the records database such that the virtual vocabulary acts as a surrogate for providing minimally intrusive modifications to the search results returned by the speech engine. Such modifications would be provided in an effort to increase the efficiency of the speech engine s returned search results as specifically tailored to accommodate a particular context or a particular records database.

According to one particularly preferred aspect of this embodiment a records database is used as the target for the speech engine s search results and the interface to the records database is a form field input screen in which a number of fields are provided for text input. The user of the records database may provide such input by either typing in the desired textual data or by dictating such data into speech recognition system that attempts to transcribe the dictated input into the most appropriate text for input into the form field. A medical records database and associated input system is an exemplary use of such a database record system. In this context the vocabulary elements of the records database may contain specific medical terminology that may not be a part of the speech engine s default vocabulary. While this text may be easily imported into the speech engine s default vocabulary element database proper selection of the most appropriate input to any form field in response to dictated input may be enhanced by taking into account database input criteria that is not typically evaluated by the speech engine during the generation of a potential match results list. By way of specific example the adjunct criteria may include criteria that the speech recognition systems do not use as part of its default selection criteria. Such criteria may include identification of the electronic form field in which the vocabulary element has previously been used the subject or patient with reference to which the dictation is being performed and or the doctor providing the dictation input.

Referring now to an exemplary data record for one vocabulary element of the virtual vocabulary database is provided. The virtual data record includes a vocabulary element which is compatible with and specific to a particular speech engine. In practice the vocabulary elements used by speech engines typically consist of a speech phoneme or string of phonemes based on a particular file format understandable by and used by the speech engine. One well known example of a collection of such vocabulary elements to create a grammar file is the Bakus Naur Form BNF which describes the structure of the language spoken by the user. Such grammar file representations are well known in the art and are not discussed in detail herein. In alternative embodiments other grammar file formats and structures may be used and the present invention may be applied to and used with any such vocabulary element. For the ease of illustration and discussion only however the vocabulary element of is discussed below as if it consists of a text word upon which an exact linguistic textual match is being performed although it should be recognized that this is most likely not the actual electronic representation and matching exercise that typical commercial speech engines employ to perform such matching. Further according to a preferred method of virtual vocabulary database creation discussed below the preferred vocabulary element embodiment is a computer text element that is derived form actual input from a records database.

According to one particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention a plurality of historical use tags and may be provided according to different criteria associated with vocabulary element . Use tags may consist of computerized bits and bytes that identify a previous form field in which the vocabulary element has been used a previous user of the speech engine a previous context in which the vocabulary element has been used or a previous patient with which the vocabulary element has been used. Those of skill in the art will realize any number of the plurality of different criteria upon which speech engine matching may be performed and the criteria provided above and in are given by way of example only.

Drilling down into the data structure of each use tag each tag preferably includes information representing a weighting for each of the numerous elements of the specific criteria associated with the particular tag. In the example provided in use tag is shown expanded in its database representation to include data pertaining to each electronic form in which the vocabulary element has been used e.g. Field ID Field ID to field ID N . Associated with Filed ID is the number of times the associated vocabulary element has been used in that field and optionally other relevant weighting criteria used by the adjunct vocabulary database and or speech engine . Those of skill in the art will realized that the representation of the tag data within the adjunct vocabulary database may be accomplished by any of numerous different representations and further that the tag data itself may grow to be prohibitively voluminous in view of the size of the data needed to represent the vocabulary element itself. Thus and as discussed more below different data representations and organizations of the data within the adjunct vocabulary database may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention so as to optimize data storage sizes data searching efficiency and any other database optimization criteria. In particular Speech Application Language Tags as provided by the Speech Application Language Tags SALT Forum which has published a SALT 1.0 specification the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference is another exemplary method of implementing the use tagging and which may be used according to the method of the present invention.

Referring now to a generalized virtual vocabulary and software system is provided and as shown and includes the virtual vocabulary database s . Virtual vocabulary software and data system includes a working virtual vocabulary database backup databases for the virtual vocabulary database and at least one operational building vocabulary database . Physical data access to and between the databases is provided by software bus . Virtual database management software is included within system and comprises numerous software modules for managing accessing sorting and searching the virtual vocabulary elements within the databases. In particular database access module is provided to control all data access functions. Coherency module is provided as part of the database access module for coordination and maintenance of the data coherency of the various databases. A prioritization module is provided for use in prioritizing the virtual vocabulary elements within the databases. Scanning module is provided for repeatedly scanning and altering the data within the databases. Speech engine interface module is provided to process the incoming speech matching requests provided through software interface from the speech engine and returning the adjunct vocabulary elements in response to the same.

Referring now to the general structure of the array of vocabulary element search results is provided as created by and passed from the search engine to the virtual vocabulary software system . In particular and simply shown the speech engine provides the virtual database system an initial dictation results array consisting of the list of potentially matching results VE VE . . . VEN and their corresponding initial weightings W W . . . WNi. The virtual vocabulary software returns a modified dictation results array consisting of the same array of vocabulary elements VE VE . . . VEN with modified weightings as provided by the virtual vocabulary system according to one preferred embodiment W W. . . WNm. It should be noted that throughout the remainder of the discussion of the invention below the input and modified dictation results arrays are discussed as if they were handled as singular entities while in fact they may be accessed through the passing of pointers to these arrays and the vocabulary elements and weightings therein. Those of skill in the art will realize other more efficient methods of accessing these arrays and the teachings of the present invention are independent of the method of accessing them in memory or through software. Further the initial dictation results array and modified dictation results array are discussed as if they are different and distinct arrays. Those of skill in the art of database management will realized that the same data structure at a particular memory location may be used to store the vocabulary elements and initial weightings whereby the system according to the present invention simply replaces the initial weightings with modified weightings to create the modified dictation results array.

In operation the software associated with the virtual vocabulary databases allows for very rapid operation of the re weighting processes performed on the input dictation results array. At a high procedural level re weighting requests are issued from the operational software used with the record database system in the form of a function call to the virtual vocabulary database software. These function calls are issued as each field in the input interface to the record database is traversed by the system user. These function calls arrive at the virtual vocabulary software and data system though software interface . Interface module distributes the request to prioritization module and scanning module which in turn process the request as described in detail with respect to below. Database access software with the assistance of coherency module manages access to the various virtual vocabulary databases and in satisfaction of the request processing. The input dictation results array is provided to the interface module though software interface . Prioritization module performs the necessary weighting calculations including any required normalizations and returns the modified weightings to the interface module for population replacement of initial weightings in the initial dictation results array to create the modified dictation results array. The modified dictation results array is then returned to the speech engine through to the interface module. All prioritization decisions and processing for this process are preferably performed by prioritization module for ease of searching and efficiency improvement purposes. Likewise the scanning module is provided to continuously scan the numerous databases and input and update new virtual vocabulary elements including updating use and weighting tags.

Referring now to a detailed description is provided of the method of managing the virtual vocabularies according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Incoming analog speech is digitized and framed and acoustic information for vector mapping is extracted . As described above some incoming speech may be provided to the speech engine solely for use and matching as user selected or programmed language which is to be matched only with commands or user defined speech. To cover this aspect the speech engine attempts to match the acoustic information against system commands and then presuming no match against user defined commands . If the search engine fails to match the voice input with systems and or user defined commands the speech engine then attempts to match the acoustic input with default vocabulary terms for example as a speech to text input to another piece of software with which the speech engine is working.

The overall processing of matching extracted acoustic information typically involves a two step filtration process a first step coarse matching process that uses relatively minimal speech engine computational resources and which eliminates obvious non matching vocabulary elements and a second step refined matching process that makes more extensive use of the speech engine s computational resources to achieve a good prioritization of the potential close matches returned by the first coarse matching process. The coarse match is optimally positioned early in the overall process for example to follow closely after the extraction of acoustic information . Positioning of the course filter immediately after the extraction of the acoustic information allows the course filter to use a minimally resource intensive pass fail criteria which may not only be used to make the above mentioned match for system and user defined commands but may also be used for paring down the initial entire speech engine vocabulary so as to streamline the subsequent fine match process. The output of the course match process regardless of the location and number of instantiations is a sub array of potential matching vocabulary elements from the entire default speech engine vocabulary where each vocabulary element has a default or initial weighing associated with those vocabulary elements

In alternative embodiments of this invention the course filter may operate apart from the core speech recognition software of the speech recognition system such that it is accessed through a function call. This course filter could then also conceivably be called by virtual speech recognition software to provide course screening of virtual vocabularies. Similarly the course filter may also be called conceivably by the speech recognition software so as to pare down any other vocabularies used by the system such as the hierarchically organized vocabularies that include prioritized and weighted sets of vocabulary elements as shown in steps and and described in the accompanying text.

The refined filtration process according to this third embodiment of the invention and as provided within the prioritization module of is shown in box in of . It should be noted that the illustrative example below pertaining to the operation of the invention in connection with a medical records database is provided strictly by way of illustration so as to simplify and clarify the operation of the invention.

As provided in step the initial dictation results array is provided with default or initial weights WXi FIG. or w D . From this initial array in response to each speech input to the system a modified dictation results array having a modified dictation result weighting WXm or w C is to be created. As a first step in this process the virtual vocabulary database management software module compiles and identifies a set of hierarchical virtual sub vocabularies according to a prioritization algorithm for a particular user installation. These virtual sub vocabularies are preferably created from the raw text data associated with the records database and are formatted to include a virtual database of each text vocabulary element ever used in the records database. During the compilation step each vocabulary element is tagged as shown in with a frequency of use for each criterion of relevance in the database the according to a particular prioritization criterion for the particular installation.

By way of example the installation may be a three physician medical practice in which electronic medical record dictation is being performed. The relevant criteria for the instant database match may include identifying information for 1 the dictating physician 2 the patient to which the dictation refers 3 a medical context for the patient to which the dictation pertains e.g. allergy diagnosis and 4 the electronic form field into which the speech to text output is to be provided. Given these criteria the highest probability of a match against the input speech would be made within the virtual database management software if first virtual sub vocabulary for matching a dictated medical record entry would include all the criteria above which would be all terms that that the physician has dictated into that records database for that form filed for a particular patient context and having the particular medical problem being addressed e.g. allergy . Additional more general lower priority and necessarily larger virtual sub vocabularies may be created at step by relaxing one or more of the matching criteria in the formation of the first or previous virtual sub directory. Further cross prioritized virtual sub vocabularies may be created by combining different permutations of the full set of criteria and generating appropriate virtual sub vocabularies. As a continuation of the example above a next highest 2 priority sub vocabulary may include all vocabulary elements for that user in the specified context e.g. allergy and dictated into that records form field thereby eliminating the patient as a matching criterion for that database. A third priority virtual sub vocabulary might be created to include consideration of every vocabulary element dictated by that user for that form field thereby eliminating a patient context for that database. A fourth priority virtual sub vocabulary might be created to include vocabulary elements used by all users of the system as dictated into that form filed for that context for that patient. A fifth priority sub vocabulary might be created to include consideration of only all the vocabulary elements dictated by the user.

The virtual database management software then uses the calculated virtual sub vocabularies to derive modified weighting criteria for the input vocabulary elements. In steps though of the input vocabulary element are matched against those within the first virtual sub vocabulary and appropriate weighting adjustments are determined by the prioritization module. For example any vocabulary elements input to the virtual database management system according to the general process described above with respect to may be given an increase in prioritization weight of between 30 and 40 if they match any elements in the first virtual sub vocabulary. The actual value in the range may depend itself on the number of matches in each criteria. It should be noted that the criteria themselves may be weighted to arrive at an appropriate weighting within the range above and optimize system accuracy. Table 2 below provided a sample modified weighting that may be applied to the initial weighting of vocabulary elements that match each of the criteria so as to arrive at the modified weighting for those vocabulary elements.

Once the input dictation results array is retrieved and the weighting modifications are determined for each element in the first virtual sub vocabulary the modified weighing is applied to the initial weighing for each matching vocabulary element in the array or in the case of no match the initial weighting is unaltered . The prioritization module then applies the modified weightings to create an interim sub vocabulary with partially modified weights and passes the interim sub vocabulary to the next processing stage for comparison to the next 2 virtual sub vocabulary.

At step the same sequence of steps takes place as provided in steps to above vocabulary element comparison to the next virtual sub vocabulary determination of appropriate weighting modifications based on vocabulary element matches in that vocabulary and application of those modifications to the weightings in the vocabulary element array. In keeping with the medical records example above the second virtual sub vocabulary weightings may be as shown in table 3 below.

Particular note should be made of several matters 1 the total number matches will likely increase as the more generalized virtual vocabularies are scanned for matches 2 the weighting modifications decrease in absolute number as the array of vocabulary elements are matched against more generalized virtual vocabularies and 3 these weights may be cumulatively derived through sequential processing steps of the vocabulary element array.

After the initial dictation results array is processed in view of each sequential virtual sub vocabulary the resulting interim array with modified weights is passed to the next stage for processing against the next virtual sub vocabulary . At the end of the processing of the block of steps within block the prioritization module makes a final replacement of the default initial weightings in the dictation results array and the virtual database management software returns the dictation results array to the speech engine for final selection of a matching vocabulary element based on the modified weightings provided by the system.

In one particularly preferred embodiment of the present invention the processing steps of block are executed for each dictated input virtual sub vocabularies are created the initial dictation results array as provided by the speech engine is evaluated against each of the sequential virtual sub vocabularies modified weightings for the vocabulary elements are applied and input to the array and the array is returned to the speech engine for selection of a single appropriate matching vocabulary element based on the modified weightings.

In another particularly preferred embodiment the compilation of the virtual sub vocabularies may be altered over time and in response to a matching accuracy metric so as to achieve improved modified weightings and subsequent matches for the particular application installation using the system.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that the specific examples of the methods provided above are for illustration purposes only and that certain normalizations of the statistical weightings may need to he performed to achieve a statistically accurate and properly functioning system.

Those of skill in the art will also realize that the linear weighting example provided above may be extended to include non linear weightings for which normalization according to and table 1 will have to be made to make the invention statistically operative. Further the sequential processing of vocabulary elements within block may be combined with the teachings of cumulative sequential weighting as provided in the second embodiment of this invention and accompanying text 

Other elements of the system of the present invention may also be realized and implemented to achieve a more accurate more efficiently functioning system. For example utility programs may be included as part of the scanning module which are written to update the use tags each time an utterance is dictated into a specific field of a specific form and another utility can periodically or constantly for sufficiently busy systems scan the database in background and update the various elements of these tags. As each entry in the database is date time stamped this background scanning utility may accommodate weighting schemes in which there is a time dependent decay in weightings. For example the utilities described in this paragraph could update tags for weighting schemes in which prioritization weights for prior use decline over time. It could appropriately generate and update tags for example according to an algorithm in which each prior use within the preceding 18 months has a weight of one unit each prior use between 18 and 30 months previously will have a weight of 0.5 unit and each prior use between 30 and 42 months earlier will have a weight of 0.25 unit.

The references specifically identified and discussed herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein. Although the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that numerous variations modifications and additional embodiments are possible and accordingly all such variations modifications and embodiments are to be regarded as being within the spirit and scope of the invention. As such the intended scope of the invention is intended to be limited only by the claims of the invention and not by any one aspect of the description provided above since the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature only.

