---

title: Process for producing base material for forming heat shielding film
abstract: There is provided a production process of a heat-ray shielding film-formed base member comprising the steps of mixing a sol solution, formed by using a starting raw material of trialkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane and tetraalkoxysilane, with a solution in which tin-doped indium oxide ultra-fine particles are dispersed, to make a treatment agent; and applying the treatment agent to a base member. In this production process, the treatment agent has an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100-200° C. as a dispersion medium, and the application is conducted by a means by bringing a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member or by a means by spraying the treatment agent, thereby adjusting haze value of the film to be formed to 0.5% or less.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08246848&OS=08246848&RS=08246848
owner: Central Glass Company, Limited
number: 08246848
owner_city: Ube-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060921
---
The present invention relates to a production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member by applying a treatment agent.

Hitherto glass base members capable of shielding near infrared rays as architectural or vehicular windows or the like have attracted attention. Of the sunshine energy near infrared ray is significant in thermal action. Therefore the prevention of its flow into the interior is expected to achieve the improvement of comfortableness the improvement of air conditioning efficiency and the like. In architectural uses and vehicular uses it is requested to have durability such as abrasion resistance and weather resistance and radio transmission capability of wavelength bands used in cellular phone TV radio ITS and the like while having a sufficient heat ray shielding capability.

Under such background a heat ray shielding film formed base member formed from a treatment agent obtained by a mixing of tin doped indium oxide ITO ultra fine particles with a binder component or the like attracts attention. For example in Patent Publications 1 to 3 there are disclosed base members that have a heat ray cut off effect and are obtained by coating a base member with a treatment agent obtained by a mixing of ITO fine particles with a binder component formed of an alkoxide such as Si Al Zr and Ti or organic resin.

As mentioned above a process for producing a heat ray shielding film formed base member by applying a treatment agent will do as long as a means for applying it to a base member is provided. Therefore it has a high potential as a process for obtaining the base member with low cost. However depending on the means for applying the treatment agent transfer efficiency of the treatment agent to the base member is low and most of the treatment agent may be wasted during the production course.

In recent years the price of tin doped indium oxide ITO ultra fine particles which are one of main raw materials of the treatment agent has risen dramatically. Therefore a technology development to efficiently transfer the treatment agent to the base member is indispensable for producing a heat ray shielding film formed base member with low cost.

In view of the above for producing a heat ray shielding film formed base member having sufficient heat ray shielding capability and abrasion resistance and weather resistance with which it can sufficiently be used as an architectural use or vehicular use window glass or the like with a lower cost it is a task of the present invention to provide the base member that is improved in transfer of the treatment agent to the base member.

In the present invention we have set a goal that most of the treatment agent used is transferred to the base member in terms of the transfer efficiency of the treatment agent to the base member.

The coating method for achieving high transfer efficiency of the treatment agent to the base member is a coating method by a means that brings a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member which is a so called coating with hands or means comparable to that or a coating method by spraying by a spray or the like. In these coating methods however the applied treatment agent must be subjected to leveling homogeneously on the base member by its own action.

The degree of achieving leveling of the applied treatment agent that is leveling property has a great influence on the external quality such as haze of the film to be formed. Therefore it is necessary to provide a treatment agent having a superior leveling property for efficiently applying the treatment agent to the base member. As a result of examining factors against leveling property of the treatment agent applied to the base member there was obtained a finding that the volatilization rate of the solvent of the treatment agent is a factor having the greatest influence on leveling property of the treatment agent.

Since the treatment agent serving in the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member of the present invention is superior upon coating the base member it is possible to efficiently transfer the treatment agent onto the base member. Therefore the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member according to the present invention makes it possible to produce a heat ray shielding film formed base member which has sufficient heat ray shielding capability and abrasion resistance and weather resistance with which it can sufficiently be used as an architectural use or vehicular use window glass or the like with a lower cost.

The present invention was made by an examination against a background of the above mentioned technological idea. That is the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member of the present invention is a production process of the base member in which transfer efficiency of the treatment agent onto the base member is improved. It is characterized in that it comprises the step of mixing a sol solution formed by using a starting raw material of trialkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane and tetraalkoxysilane with a solution in which tin doped indium oxide hereinafter it may be referred to as ITO ultra fine particles are dispersed to make a treatment agent and the step of applying the treatment agent to the base member that the treatment agent has an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 200 C. as a dispersion medium and that the application is conducted by a means in which a member retaining the treatment agent is brought into contact with the base member or by a means by spraying the treatment agent thereby adjusting haze value of the film to be formed to 0.5 or less.

Since the treatment agent serving in the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member of the present invention is superior in leveling property upon coating the base member the treatment agent can efficiently be transferred onto the base member. Therefore the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member according to the present invention makes it possible to produce a heat ray shielding film formed base member which has sufficient heat ray shielding capability and abrasion resistance and weather resistance with which it can sufficiently be used as an architectural use or vehicular use window glass or the like with a lower cost.

In the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member of the present invention the treatment agent is obtained by mixing a sol solution prepared by using a starting raw material of trialkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane and tetraalkoxysilane with a solution in which ITO ultra fine particles are dispersed. By containing a chemical species having a boiling point of 100 200 C. in the solvent in the treatment agent it becomes possible to suitably retard volatilization of the solvent from the treatment agent applied to the base member while securing dispersiveness of the ITO ultra fine particles in the treatment agent resulting in a considerable improvement in leveling property of the treatment agent. Herein the reason why the boiling point is adjusted to the above range is that it becomes impossible to suitably retard volatilization of the solvent if it is less than 100 C. and that too much time is necessary for volatilization of the solvent if it is higher than 200 C.

Upon preparing the sol solution it is preferable to prepare the sol solution by using an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 200 C. as a dispersion medium of the sol solution since the steps of preparing the treatment agent are simplified.

The heat ray shielding film is required to have a film thickness of 1 m or greater for obtaining a sufficient heat ray shielding property since the film thickness has a great influence on the amount of absorption of infrared rays having a wavelength of 0.81 m or greater. In addition it is preferable to have a sufficient abrasion resistance in practice for the use as an architectural or vehicular window glass. In order to satisfy these demands the selection of the ultra fine particles and the binder component used as a binder of the ultra fine particles is important.

The binder component of the heat ray shielding film obtained by the present invention is a silicon compound. It is obtained by using trialkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane and tetraalkoxysilane as a starting raw material. The alkoxysilane is previously turned into a sol and it is mixed with a solution in which ITO ultra fine particles are dispersed. With this it is possible to produce a treatment agent without having aggregation and sedimentation.

In order to obtain the above mentioned thick film it is preferable to use one having a less occurrence of stress in the film when the applied treatment agent turns into gel. If stress occurring upon gelation is large the film tends to have cracks thereby damaging external appearance.

A silicon compound formed from trialkoxysilane having three reaction active groups makes a spatial clearance. Therefore stress occurring upon gelation is relatively small and cracks do not tend to occur. Since it has three reaction active groups one silicon compound forms three strong siloxane bonds. Therefore it is possible to form a cross linked network. In the case of using one having two or less reaction active groups however the silicon compound makes a more spatial clearance but only a chain like network is formed. Therefore the film is lowered in abrasion resistance and the like.

In order to form the film obtained by the present invention into one having a sufficient abrasion resistance in practical use as an architectural or vehicular window glass it is preferable to increase the cross liking density of the silicon compound of the binder component. For that it is possible to use not only trialkoxysilane but also tetraalkoxysilane having four reaction active groups as a starting raw material of the silicon compound of the binder component. If tetraalkoxysilane is used as the starting raw material a film that is high in hardness and superior in abrasion resistance tends to be obtained. For example a film that is 5H or greater in pencil hardness tends to be obtained. By increasing the amount of its introduction a film that is 7H or greater tends to be obtained.

The use of tetraalkoxysilane is effective for forming a high hardness film. However the use of the chemical species tends to decrease a spatial clearance in the cross linked structure upon gelation during the film forming process. Therefore cracks tend to occur in the film. In view of this it is preferable to adjust by weight ratio the amount of the silicon compound derived from tetraalkoxysilane in the sol solution to four or less times the amount of the silicon compound derived from trialkoxysilane.

The use of tetraalkoxysilane is preferable since it provides the obtained film with a vitreous external appearance or touch. If a heat ray shielding film formed base member that has vitreous touch is used for an automotive side door window the window is improved in sliding property upon the up and down movement of the window and does not tend to have occurrence of chatter. In view of this it is preferable to use a heat ray shielding film formed base member which has been formed by using tetraalkoxysilane for a window that is moved up and down such as an automotive side door window.

In view of external appearance touch of the film the obtainment of a hardness that is 7H or more in pencil hardness abrasion resistance of the film and the like it is preferable to adjust by weight the amount of a silicon compound derived from tetraalkoxysilane in the sol solution to not less than one time the amount of a silicon compound derived from trialkoxysilane.

The amount of the silicon compound which is a base of the above mentioned numerical limitation is based on the amount of silicon oxide compound formed from tetraalkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane of the raw material.

By applying the treatment agent on the base member through a means of bringing a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member or a means by spraying the treatment agent it is possible to increase transfer rate of the treatment agent onto the base member and to obtain a heat ray shielding film formed base member that has a haze value of 0.5 or less and is superior in transmission heat ray shielding property hardness durability and the like. From the viewpoint of transmission it is preferable to have haze value of the film as low as possible. From the production efficiency of a heat ray shielding film formed base member it is optional to adjust haze value of the film to 0.1 or greater and furthermore 0.2 or greater.

The above mentioned haze value is defined by the value obtained by a method based on a measurement method of the haze value by a haze meter mentioned in an item of abrasion resistance of JIS R 3212 1998 . In the measurement of the haze value according to the rule using a heat ray shielding film formed base member obtained by the present invention the measurement is conducted with base member film . In case that the haze value of the base member is as low as 0.2 the measured value obtained with the film formed base member may be considered as the haze value of the film. In case that the haze value of the base member exceeds 0.2 the haze value of the base member is lowered to 0.2 or less by making the base member thin. After forming a heat ray shielding film formed base member by the same method using a base member having a haze value of 0.2 or less the haze value obtained by the base member may be used correspondingly as the haze value of the film.

The solvent in the treatment agent is derived from the solvent in the sol solution and the solvent in the solution in which ITO ultra fine particles are dispersed. By increasing the proportion of a high boiling point solvent in the solvent in the treatment agent leveling property is improved. As a result of various examinations on leveling property it was found to be preferable to adjust the amount of an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 200 C. to 30 weight or greater in the solvent in the treatment agent.

For an efficient production of the heat ray shielding film formed base member it is desirable that the amount of the silicon compound and the ITO ultra fine particles to be added to the treatment agent is 5 wt to 50 wt more preferably 15 wt to 40 wt relative to the total amount of the treatment agent.

It is preferable to make the film have a pencil hardness of 3H or greater by conducting a baking at 50 300 C. after applying the treatment agent to the base member. Assuming that the heat ray shielding film formed base member is used as an automotive or architectural window a film having a higher hardness is preferable. A film having a hardness of 3H to 9H in pencil hardness is practical. By conducting heating after applying the treatment agent the film is sintered. In view of practical strength of the film it is preferable to conduct baking at 50 300 C. preferably 130 300 C.

By lowering the silicon compound concentration abrasion resistance of the film is lowered. By lowering the ITO fine particles concentration the heat ray shielding capability is lowered. Therefore the weight ratio of the silicon compound in the treatment agent to the tin doped indium oxide ultra fine particles is preferably 2 8 to 7 3 for obtaining a composition with which abrasion resistance and heat ray shielding capability consist with each other.

Upon forming the treatment agent it is optional to form the treatment agent by adding an organic metal complex as a curing catalyst. By adding the curing catalyst the obtained heat ray shielding film formed base member is improved in hardness and abrasion resistance. Therefore it is preferable. The curing catalyst may be by weight up to 0.05 times the amount of the silicon compound in the treatment agent. With more than 0.05 times that the effect of the achievement of the catalytic effect relative to the added amount tends to become obscure. Therefore it is not necessary to add the catalyst in large amount. On the other hand it is preferable to add the curing catalyst in an amount by weight that is not less than 0.0001 times the amount of the silicon compound in the treatment agent.

As the curing catalyst particularly a metal complex such as tin aluminum titanium and zirconium is more preferably used. Herein the organic metal complex is preferably fluoride chloride bromide iodide acetate nitrate sulfate acetylacetonato or the like.

The amount of the silicon compound which becomes a basis of the numerical limitations in the ratio of the silicon compound to the ITO ultra fine particles and the ratio of the silicon compound to the curing catalyst is based on the amount of a silicon oxide compound formed from tetraalkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane of the raw material.

It is known that the ITO ultra fine particles absorb near infrared rays of 1000 nm or greater. In general it is known that a substance has an intrinsic plasma resonance frequency that a light having a wavelength longer than this frequency is reflected and that a light shorter than that is transmitted. This plasma resonance frequency is known to shift to a shorter wavelength side by the increase of the conductive electron density. It is known that ITO has a conductive electron density that is higher than those of other transparent conductive materials such as ATO and therefore absorption starts from around 1000 nm to 1300 nm.

Regarding the ITO ultra fine particles it is preferable to use those having an average particle diameter of 200 nm or less preferably 100 nm or less. In general it is said that particles having a particle diameter that is around a half of wavelength of a light make its scattering maximum. Therefore it is preferable that the average particle diameter of the ITO ultra fine particles is 200 nm which is a half of 400 nm the shortest wavelength of the visible light rays or less more preferably 100 nm or less.

The average particle diameter is measured by a method based on JIS H 7804 2005 . Presented in this JIS is up to a size of 100 nm in average particle diameter. However one exceeding 100 nm is measured by using the measurement method of the size of 100 nm in average particle diameter.

The ITO ultra fine particles are used in a condition that they are dispersed in a dispersion medium. As the dispersion medium in view of its compatibility with the sol solution it is preferable to use a dispersion medium containing a major component of an alcohol solvent particularly a lower alcohol solvent or a dispersion medium containing a major component of an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 200 C. which is used as a dispersion medium of silica sol.

As the trialkoxysilane it is possible to use methyltrimethoxysilane ethyltrimethoxysilane propyltrimethoxysilane isopropyltrimethoxysilane butyltrimethoxysilane isobutyltrimethoxysilane phenyltrimethoxysilane methyltriethoxysilane ethyltriethoxysilane propyltriethoxysilane isopropyltriethoxysilane butyltriethoxysilane isobutyltriethoxysilane phenyltriethoxysilane methyltripropoxysilane ethyltripropoxysilane propyltripropoxysilane isopropyltripropoxysilane butyltripropoxysilane isobutyltripropoxysilane phenyltripropoxysilane methyltriisopropoxysilane ethyltriisopropoxysilane propyltriisopropoxysilane isopropyltriisopropoxysilane butyltriisopropoxysilane isobutyltriisopropoxysilane phenyltriisopropoxysilane and the like.

Furthermore it is possible to provide some functions by an organic group of a moiety other than alkoxy group. For example for the purpose of improving abrasion resistance it is possible to use 3 glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane 3 glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane 5 6 epoxyhexyltriethoxysilane 5 6 epoxyhexyltriethoxysilane 2 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltrimethoxysilane 2 3 4 epoxycyclohexyl ethyltriethoxysilane 3 oxetanylpropyltriethoxysilane and the like which are provided with epoxy group and oxetanyl group.

In order to improve leveling property of the treatment agent it is preferable to use a large size organic group as the organic group of the above mentioned trialkoxysilane. For example butyltrimethoxysilane isobutyltrimethoxysilane phenyltrimethoxysilane 3 glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane 3 glycidoxypropyltriethoxysilane and the like are preferable.

On the other hand in order to make touch of the obtained film closer to glassy it is preferable to use a small size organic group as the organic group of the above mentioned trialkoxysilane. For example it is more preferable that the organic group is methyl group such as methyltrimethoxysilane and methyltriethoxysilane.

As the above mentioned tetraalkoxysilane it is possible to use tetramethoxysilane tetraethoxysilane tetrapropoxysilane tetraisopropoxysilane and the like. As the tri and tetraalkoxysilanes it is optional to use respective single types of compounds or to use different types of compounds.

It is desirable that the organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 C. to 200 C. is a chemical species containing a hydroxyl group. This is because it is expected to have a compatibility with trialkoxysilane or trialkoxysilane and tetraalkoxysilane which are used as the binder component hydrolysis components of these alcohols produced by hydrolyses and the like. Since the treatment agent contains many chemical species containing hydroxyl groups one suitable for chemical species containing hydroxyl groups is used as the dispersion medium of the ITO ultra fine particles. Therefore also from the viewpoint of dispersion stability of the ITO ultra fine particle a chemical species containing a hydroxyl group is preferable. Furthermore in case that the base member is a glass base member wettability of the treatment agent to the base member is improved in the step of applying the treatment agent to the base member by using a chemical species containing a hydroxyl group as the dispersion medium. This is because due to the existence of many silanol groups Si OH on the surface of the base member its affinity with a chemical species containing a hydroxyl group is good. As a result it has an effect of lowering haze value of the film to be formed.

As the chemical species having a boiling point of 100 C. to 200 C. and containing a hydroxyl group there are cited alcohol series solvents such as ethylene glycol 1 butanol 2 butanol 1 2 propanediol and cyclohexanol Cellosolve series solvents such as ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether ethylene glycol monoisoamyl ether and ethylene glycol monophenyl ether propylene glycol monoalkyl ether series such as propylene glycol monomethyl ether propylene glycol monoethyl ether and propylene glycol monobutyl ether and the like. In view of compatibility with water or a lower alcohol that has a good compatibility with water it is preferable to use a propylene glycol monoalkyl ether series chemical species.

Furthermore it is optional to add a material that shields particular wavelengths to the treatment agent for the purpose of raising the functionality of the film. For example it is possible to add a benzophenone derivative benzotriazole derivative titanium oxide fine particles or zinc oxide fine particles for the purpose of shielding ultraviolet rays.

As the base member used in the production process of a heat ray shielding film formed base member of the present invention it is preferable to use an inorganic and transparent glass base member such as a soda lime glass which is normally used as an architectural use or vehicular use glass base and is prepared by a float method or roll out method. The type of the glass base member is not particularly limited in terms of colorless products colored products products combined with other functional films shape and the like.

For example it is possible to use flat plate like products curved plate like products various tempered glass products such as air quench tempered glass and chemically strengthened glass and wired glass products. In addition it is optional to use various glass products such as borosilicate glass low expansion glass zero expansion glass low expansion glass ceramics zero expansion glass ceramics TFT glass PDP glass and optical filter base member glass.

Besides glass base member it is optional to use a resin base member such as polyethylene terephthalate resin polycarbonate resin polyvinyl chloride resin and polyethylene resin.

In recent years in architectural use and vehicular use there have been used many green color series glass base members that absorb a wavelength region of 700 nm to 1100 nm. Since the wavelength region that can be shielded by the ITO ultra fine particles is 1000 nm or greater it is possible to produce a glass base member having a suppressed transmittance in a wide near infrared wavelength region by forming the heat ray shielding film formed base member on the green color series glass base member. It is possible by the heat ray shielding film formed base member to satisfy the visible light transmittance of 70 or greater that is legally required in vehicular glass windows and to limit solar radiation transmittance to 45 or less.

Since the treatment agent used in the present invention is superior in leveling property after the coating of the base member the application to the base member using a curved plate like product is easy. The application to a concave surface which is a more difficult application is easy. Therefore in the present invention it is possible to produce a heat ray shielding film formed base member having a curved shape with low cost. In the case of applying a heat ray shielding film formed base member of a curved shape to windows of vehicular use the concave surface side becomes an interior side which is preferable for the film formation. Therefore the above mentioned characteristic is preferable for the application of the present invention to vehicular use.

Next the procedures for carrying out the present invention are explained. A sol solution formed by using alkoxysilane as the starting raw material is obtained for example by mixing and stirring given amounts of alkoxysilane an organic solvent having a boiling point of 100 to 200 C. an acid catalyst and the like.

The time for the stirring is preferably 10 minutes to 20 days particularly 1 hour to four days but it is not limited to this in the case of conducting stirring not at room temperature. Heating accelerates the reaction. Therefore it is possible to shorten the stirring time. As mentioned above hydrolysis of alkoxysilane can be conducted by adding water and an acid catalyst of small amounts. It is possible to obtain a sol solution through polycondensation by conducting stirring at room temperature or with heating. Herein in case that two types or more of alkoxysilanes have been used it is optional to separately conduct hydrolyses followed by mixing or to conduct them together. The preparation method of the sol solution is not limited to the above method. A method in which one obtained by gradually mixing an acid aqueous solution diluted with solvent with the above mentioned alkoxysilane diluted with solvent makes it possible to avoid a rapid reaction and obtain a more homogeneous reaction. Therefore it is preferable.

The acid catalyst is selected from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid and nitric acid and organic acids such as acetic acid phthalic acid and succinic acid depending on the hydrolysis rate of alkoxy group of the alkoxysilane used. It is preferable that the acid catalyst is added in a manner to adjust the pH value in the sol solution to 0 to 5. For example in the case of methyltriethoxysilane a gel precipitate tends to occur by a low pH value. Therefore it is preferable to adjust the pH value to 3 4. The acid catalyst is preferably acetic acid phthalic acid or the like which is easy for the adjustment to this pH value.

It is optional to add a very small amount of a leveling agent to the treatment agent for the purpose of improving leveling property. In view of compatibility with the present treatment agent of the present invention a water soluble silicone series leveling agent is preferable.

The treatment agent is obtained by mixing the sol solution with a solution in which the ITO ultrafine particles are dispersed. The application of the treatment agent to the base member is conducted by a means by bringing a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member or by a means by spraying of the treatment agent.

The means for bringing a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member is a coating method by a so called coating with hands or means comparable to that. The treatment agent is retained by a means such as impregnation or penetration of the treatment agent into the member such as cloth sponge brush or nonwoven fabric and the member is brought into contact with the base member by a robot human hand or the like thereby transferring the treatment agent onto the base member. As a means by spraying of the treatment agent the treatment agent is sprayed onto the base member with a robot human hand or the like by a coating method by spraying thereby transferring the treatment agent onto the base member.

The transfer efficiency of the treatment agent onto the base member is determined by calculating what percentage of the amounts of the silicon compound the amount reduced to oxide and the tin doped indium oxide ultra fine particles in the treatment agent that is the amount of solid matters in the treatment agent has adhered onto the base member. For example spin coating method is cited as a coating method that is capable of producing flat thin films. In the case of spin coating method the amount of solid matter in the treatment agent that adheres onto the base member is about 10 40 and the remaining 60 90 is thrown away to the outside of the system. In the case of conducting the application by a means that brings a member retaining the treatment agent into contact with the base member it becomes possible to adjust the transfer efficiency to 80 to 99 .

The external appearance transmission and existence or nonexistence of cracks of the heat ray shielding film were evaluated by visual inspection. Those with no problem were judged as pass B and those with problem were judged as failure F . Those that have no problem in terms of transmission and existence or nonexistence of cracks and the like and that are observed as having a glass like external appearance film were judged as excellent A .

Using U 4000 made by HITACHI transmission spectrum of the heat ray shielding film formed glass base member was measured. Based on this measurement data there were determined solar radiation transmittance Ts visible light transmittance Tv and transmittances Tand Trespectively at 1450 nm and 1900 nm based on JIS R 3106 1998 . Ts of 50 or less Tv of 70 or greater Tof 15 or less and Tof 5 or less were judged as having a sufficient heat ray shielding capability as an architectural or vehicular glass. Haze value was measured by using NDH2000 made by NIPPON DENSHOKU based on JIS R 3212 1998 . A haze value of 0.5 or less was judged as being a level with no practical problem as an architectural or vehicular glass.

Based on JIS K 5600 1999 a pencil hardness test was conducted. 3H or more was judged as being a hardness of practical use B and 7H or more was judged as being a superior hardness A .

Surface resistance value was measured by using MEGARESTA made by SSD Co. In general it is said that a film containing conductive oxide fine particles exceeding 100M in surface resistance value shows a radio transmission property comparable to that of normal glass. In the present invention in case that the surface resistance value has exceeded 100M one was judged as having a good radio transmission property.

The film was cut off with a utility knife and it was measured with a step height measurement mode of SURFCORDER ET4000A made by Kosaka Laboratory Ltd.

15.5 g of methyltriethoxysilane MTES 23.5 g of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 11 g of 0.5N acetic acid were mixed together followed by stirring at 50 C. for 72 hr thereby obtaining a sol solution.

Then there were mixed together 5 g of the sol solution and 5 g of a solution the content of ITO ultra fine particle 30 wt solvent isopropyl alcohol ITO fine particles dispersed liquid 30 wt made by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation in which ITO ultra fine particles having an average particle diameter of 50 nm had been dispersed thereby obtaining a treatment agent.

The organic solvent component in the treatment agent contained 40 wt of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 60 wt of isopropyl alcohol iPA . The total concentration of the silicon compound and the ITO ultra fine particles was 26.7 wt .

The surface of a UV cut green glass base member Ts 47.3 Tv 74.5 T 33.2 T 46.4 of 300 mm 300 mm 3.45 mm thickness was ground with a grinding liquid followed by washing with water and drying. The grinding liquid used herein is a 2 wt ceria suspension liquid obtained by mixing a glass abrasive MILEK A T made by MITSUI MINING SMELTING CO. LTD. with water.

A cotton cloth trade name BEMCOT impregnated with lcc of the above treatment agent was brought into contact with the base member with a hand operation and the applied treatment agent was sufficiently spread on the entire surface of one side of the base member with the cotton cloth. As a result there was a small loss due to the impregnation of the cotton cloth but almost the total amount adhered onto the substrate.

Then it was baked at 200 C. for 10 min followed by cooling to room temperature thereby obtaining a heat ray shielding film formed base member having a good external appearance. The values of physical properties of the obtained base member are shown in Table 1. In the present example there were shown a low haze value and a good heat ray shielding property. The surface resistance value also exceeded 100M and the film thickness was 1.6 m.

The heat ray shielding film formed base member was sectioned and a cross section of the heat ray shielding film was observed by a scanning electron microscope in accordance with JIS H 7804 2005 . With this the average particle diameter of the ITO fine particles was about 50 nm.

A heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 1 except in that the baking temperature was adjusted to 250 C. and the same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. The heat ray shielding film formed base member obtained by the present example showed a low haze value and a good heat ray shielding property.

The application of the treatment agent was conducted by using spraying. Except that a heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 1 and the same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. The heat ray shielding film formed base member obtained by the present example showed a low haze value and a good heat ray shielding property.

16.0 g of tetraethoxysilane TEOS 6.6 g of methyltriethoxysilane MTES 16.4 g of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 11 g of 0.5N acetic acid were mixed together followed by stirring at 40 C. for 24 hr thereby obtaining a sol solution.

Then there were mixed together 10 g of the sol solution and 5 g of a solution the content of ITO ultra fine particle 30 wt solvent isopropyl alcohol ITO fine particles dispersed liquid 30 wt made by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation in which ITO ultra fine particles having an average particle diameter of 50 nm had been dispersed thereby obtaining a treatment agent.

The organic solvent component in the treatment agent contained 48 wt of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 52 wt of isopropyl alcohol iPA . The total concentration of the silicon compound and the ITO ultra fine particles was 20 wt . Then the application and the baking were conducted in the same manners as those of Example 1. As a result a high hardness of 8H was shown in pencil hardness test.

A heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 4 except in that a sol was obtained by using 2.9 g of tetraethoxysilane TEOS 19.7 g of methyltriethoxysilane MTES 16.4 g of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 11 g of 0.5N acetic acid as starting materials and the same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. As a result a hardness of 5H which is sufficient in practical use was shown in pencil hardness test.

9.05 g of tetraethoxysilane TEOS 2.84 g of glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane GPTMS 9.86 of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 8.25 g of 0.5N acetic acid were mixed together followed by stirring at room temperature for 24 hr thereby obtaining a sol solution.

Then there were mixed together 10 g of the sol solution and 5 g of a solution the content of ITO ultra fine particle 30 wt solvent isopropyl alcohol ITO fine particles dispersed liquid 30 wt made by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation in which ITO ultra fine particles having an average particle diameter of 50 nm had been dispersed thereby obtaining a treatment agent.

The organic solvent component in the treatment agent contained 48 wt of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 52 wt of isopropyl alcohol iPA . The total concentration of the silicon compound and the ITO ultra fine particles was 20 wt . Then the application was conducted in the same manner as those of Example 1. Furthermore the baking was conducted at 160 C. The same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. As a result a high hardness of 8H was shown in pencil hardness test.

A sol solution was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 6. Then 10 g of the sol solution and 5 g of the ITO ultra fine particles were mixed together and then 0.01 g of dibutyl tin diacetate DBDA were added as the curing catalyst followed by stirring for 1 hr thereby obtaining a treatment agent. Then the application was conducted in the same manner as that of Example 1 and the baking was conducted at 200 C. The same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. As a result a high hardness of 9H was shown in pencil hardness test.

5.32 g of tetramethoxysilane TMOS 1.27 g of glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane GPTMS 7.59 g of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 5.82 g of 0.5N acetic acid were mixed together followed by stirring at room temperature for 24 hr thereby obtaining a sol solution.

Then there were mixed together 10 g of the sol solution and 5 g of the ITO ultra fine particles dispersed liquid thereby obtaining a treatment agent. The organic solvent component in the treatment agent contained 52 wt of propylene glycol monoethyl ether and 48 wt of isopropyl alcohol iPA . Then the application was conducted in the same manner as that of Example 1 and the baking was conducted at 200 C. The same evaluations as those of Example 1 were conducted. As a result a high hardness of 9H was shown in pencil hardness test.

A heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 1 except in that isopropyl alcohol was used as a solvent for obtaining the sol solution. As a result there were many external appearance defects such as pinholes and the haze value was a high value of 0.6 .

A heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 1 except in that tetraethoxysilane TEOS was used in place of MTES. As a result there were observed external appearance defects formed as a main cause of cracks occurred at the film surface.

A heat ray shielding film formed base member was obtained by the same procedure as that of Example 1 except in that antimony doped tin oxide ATO ultra fine particles the content of the ATO ultra fine particles 30 wt solvent water made by ISHIHARA SANGYO KAISHA LTD. SN 100D were used in place of the ITO ultra fine particles. There was obtained a film having a high haze value which is considered to have been caused by aggregation of the fine particles generated during the preparation of the treatment agent.

