---

title: Semiconductor integrated circuit device
abstract: A semiconductor integrated circuit device of the present invention includes a drive circuit for driving a circuit block. This drive circuit is made up of a double gate transistor with gates having different gate oxide film thicknesses. When the circuit block is in its standby state, the gate of the double gate transistor having a thinner gate oxide film is turned off and that having a thicker gate oxide film is turned on. This arrangement allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both the circuit block and the drive circuit while allowing the drive circuit to deliver or cut off power to the circuit block.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07633315&OS=07633315&RS=07633315
owner: Renesas Technology Corp.
number: 07633315
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061207
---
The present application claims priority from Japanese application JP 2005 366784 filed on Dec. 20 2005 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference into this application.

The present invention relates to a semiconductor integrated circuit device in which a processing circuit is integrated on a semiconductor chip to perform specific processing on a received signal and output the processed signal and more particularly to a technique of reducing the power consumption of such a semiconductor integrated circuit device.

An exemplary conventional circuit for reducing the leakage current of a logic circuit includes an n channel transistor and an inverter circuit. The n channel transistor operates as a switch for cutting off power supply to the logic circuit and the inverter circuit is used to drive the n channel transistor. See for example 90 nm Low Leakage SoC Design Technique for Wireless Applications 2005 IEEE International Solid State Circuits Conference ISSCC 2005 p. 138 139 . FIGS. 7 6 3. 

The prevent inventors have studied the conventional technique disclosed in the above nonpatent document and have come up with a unique technique as shown in which has led to the present invention. Referring to symbol Logic denotes an integrated circuit block including many circuits Vssm a ground potential line within the circuit block Logic STBY a standby signal which is set at a high level when the circuit block Logic is in its standby state PSW a power switch used to cut off power supply to the circuit block Logic SWON a signal for controlling the power switch PSW DRV a drive circuit for generating the signal SWON or driving the power switch PSW and MN an nMOS transistor within the drive circuit DRV. When the circuit block Logic is not operating that is when it is in its standby state the ground potential line Vssm of the circuit block Logic is disconnected from ground potential line Vss by the power switch PSW in order to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. As a result the potential of the ground potential line Vssm rises resulting in a reduction in the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. The above nonpatent document discloses an example of such circuitry which includes an n channel transistor operating as a switch for cutting off power supply to a logic circuit and an inverter circuit for driving the n channel transistor.

However the above circuitry is disadvantageous in that controlling the power switch PSW so as to cut off power supply to the circuit block Logic requires that the nMOS transistor MN in the circuit DRV for generating the signal SWON be turned on to set the voltage of the signal SWON to a low level. When the nMOS transistor is in an on state a gate leakage current flows from the gate electrode to the source electrode. shows the voltage or potential of each point in the circuitry the leakage current Ilogic flowing through the circuit block Logic and the gate leakage current ISTBY flowing through the nMOS transistor from the node STBY.

Incidentally as the size of circuits on an LSI Large Scale Integrated Circuit chip has been increased the leakage current flowing through these circuits when they are not operating has become a limiting factor in reducing the power consumption of the chip. A technique widely used to overcome this problem is to provide a power switch between the power supply and circuits on the LSI chip and turn off this power switch when the circuits are not operating so as to reduce their leakage current.

However although it is possible to reduce the leakage current of these circuits connected to the power switch it is not possible to cut off or reduce the current of the control circuit for controlling this power switch. As fine processing technology for semiconductor devices has advanced the thickness of the gate oxide films i.e. gate insulating films of transistors has been reduced resulting in an increase in the gate leakage current flowing through these films. Since an increase in the gate leakage current of the above control circuit whose power cannot be cut off as described above means an increase in the leakage current of the entire circuitry it is necessary to reduce this gate leakage current of the control circuit in order to reduce the leakage current of the entire LSI chip.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to reduce the leakage current of a control circuit provided to reduce the leakage current of an LSI circuit by use of a power switch.

To accomplish the above object a semiconductor integrated circuit device of the present invention comprises a power switch for cutting off power supply to a circuit block having a particular function and a drive circuit for controlling the power switch the drive circuit including a first transistor and a second transistor wherein a drain electrode of the first transistor is electrically connected to a drain electrode of the second transistor wherein the first transistor is a double gate transistor with a first gate and a second gate having different gate oxide film thicknesses and wherein the potentials on the first and second gates are controlled independently of each other.

Thus the drive circuit which cannot be turned off even when the circuit block is in its standby state includes a double gate transistor the first transistor having an asymmetrical double gate structure that is having two gates with different gate insulating film thicknesses . With this arrangement when the circuit block is not operating the gate of the double gate transistor having a smaller gate insulating film thickness is turned off and that having a larger gate insulating film thickness is turned on to reduce the leakage current flowing through the gate insulating films while performing a required operation.

Thus the present invention can reduce the leakage current of a control circuit provided to reduce the leakage current of an LSI circuit by use of a power switch.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The following preferred embodiments of the present invention assumes that circuits and circuitry employ a power supply voltage of 1.0 V a high level voltage of 1.0 V and a low level voltage of 0 V unless otherwise stated. However a power supply voltage other than 1.0 V for example 1.2 V or 0.8 V may be used with the same effect.

The following description assumes that the load circuit requires that the voltage at the load node OUT be switched between high and low levels when the load circuit is in the active state and the voltage at the load node OUT be set to a low level when the load circuit is in the standby state. When the load circuit is in the active state the same voltage is applied to the two gates of the double gate transistor and both transistors i.e. the p channel transistor MD and the double gate transistor MD are turned on and off alternately .

More specifically in the active state since the gate of the transistor MD receives the same voltage as the gates of the double gate transistor MD these transistors perform an inverter operation i.e. together act as an inverter . In this state the node OUT to be driven can assume both high and low voltage levels. When the load circuit is in the standby state the p channel transistor MD is turned off to set the voltage at the node OUT to a low level. Further the second gate of the double gate transistor MD is set to an on state and hence the voltage at the node OUT is fixed to a low level as described above . Since the second gate of the transistor MD has a large thickness the gate leakage current flowing through this gate is small. Further since the voltage of the first gate of the double gate transistor MD is set to a low level the first gate is in an off state. This reduces the leakage current of the first gate of the double gate transistor MD. Otherwise a large gate leakage current flows through this gate. 

Thus the load driving circuit shown in exhibits a reduced leakage current while setting the voltage at the node OUT to a low level.

The following description of the present invention assumes the thicknesses of the insulating films for the first and second gates to be approximately 2 nm and 10 nm respectively. However they may be set to other values as long as the insulating film for the first gate is thinner than that for the second gate with the same effect. For example the insulating film for the first gate may have a thickness of approximately 1.2 nm and that for the second gate may have a thickness of approximately 5 nm. This still achieves the same effect as described above.

The load driving circuit of the present embodiment described above employs an n channel double gate transistor to set the voltage at the node OUT to a low level. However if the load circuit requires that the voltage at the node OUT be set to a high level a p channel double gate transistor may be used instead of the n channel double gate transistor to reduce the leakage current. Further although the above load driving circuit uses an inverter circuit to drive the node OUT a logic circuit such as a NAND or NOR circuit may be used instead. Also in this case the leakage current of the load driving circuit can be reduced by turning on only the second gate of the double gate transistor when setting the voltage at the node OUT to a fixed level.

When the circuit block is in the standby state the voltage of the control signal SWEN is normally at a low level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate is turned on the voltage of the control signal SWON for controlling the power switch PSW is maintained at a low level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block Logic and a leakage current reduction circuit or drive circuit therefor.

When the circuit block Logic has switched from the active state to the standby state the voltage of the control signal SWEN is set to a high level for a predetermined period of time turning on the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. As a result the voltages of the control signals SWON and SWON rapidly fall to a low level turning off the power switch PSW. This results in an increase in the potential of the ground potential line Vssm of the circuit block Logic and hence a significant reduction in the leakage current flowing through the circuit block Logic. When the circuit block Logic is not operating that is when it is in its standby state the voltage of the control signal SWEN is normally at a low level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is turned on the voltages of the control signals SWON and SWON for controlling the power switch PSW are maintained at a low level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

On the other hand when the circuit block Logic has switched from the standby state to the active state first the voltage of the control signal SWON rises from a low level to a high level turning on the power switch PSW. As a result the potential of the ground potential line Vssm approaches ground potential Vss. Then after a predetermined period of time the voltage of the control signal SWON rises from a low level to a high level turning on the first gate of the double gate transistor constituting the power switch PSW. As a result both gates of the double gate transistor are on. 

It should be noted that the ground potential line Vss is connected to not only the circuit block Logic but also other circuits on the semiconductor chip. Therefore if the magnitude of the current Inoise is large the potential of the ground potential line Vss varies with variations in the current Inoise. This affects the operations of circuits connected to the ground potential line Vss other than the circuit block Logic which might lead to a malfunction if there is a large variation in the potential of the ground potential line Vss. When the circuit block Logic has switched from the standby state to the active state if the first and second gates of the power switch PSW are turned on at the same time a large current Inoise flows through the power switch PSW since the charge on the ground potential line Vssm is rapidly drawn. This causes a variation in the potential of the ground potential line Vss resulting in malfunction of other circuits on the same semiconductor chip.

According to the present embodiment to prevent the above malfunction from occurring the voltage of the control signal SWON is raised to a high level before raising the voltage of the control signal SWON. That is the second gate is turned on before turning on the first gate. This arrangement allows a reduction in the current Inoise flowing from the power switch PSW to the ground potential line Vss since the driving current of the transistor i.e. the power switch PSW is small when only the second gate is turned on. This prevents malfunction of the circuits connected to the ground potential line Vss. The first gate is turned on when the potential of the ground potential line Vssm has decreased to a certain level after turning on the second gate which prevents the current Inoise from increasing to a high level. Further when the circuit block Logic is in the active state turning on both gates of the power switch PSW increases the magnitude of current that can be passed through the power switch PSW resulting in reliable operation of the circuit block Logic.

Further in this circuit configuration when the power switch PSW is in an on state both the first and second gates of the double gate transistor constituting the switch are turned on. Therefore this power switch PSW allows a higher current to pass as compared to when a common single gate transistor is used as the power switch PSW or only the first gate of the double gate transistor is turned on. This means that inserting this power switch between the circuit block Logic and the ground potential line Vss does not lead to as much reduction in the current flowing through the circuit block Logic as inserting a conventional power switch. Therefore the above power switch configuration has an advantage over conventional power switch configurations.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also prevents variations in the power supply voltage of the circuits on the semiconductor chip on which the circuit block is mounted thereby preventing malfunction of these circuits.

When the circuit block Logic has switched from the active state to the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is set to a high level for a predetermined period of time turning on the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. At that time the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is also turned on. As a result the voltage of the control signal SWON rapidly falls to a low level. At the same time the voltages of the control signals STBYP and STBYP for controlling the gate electrodes of the p channel transistor in the drive circuit DRV are set to a high level preventing a charge current from flowing through the gate of the power switch PSW.

As a result the power switch PSW is turned off and hence the potential of the ground potential line Vssm of the circuit block Logic rises drastically reducing the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. When the circuit block Logic is in the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is normally at a low level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the n channel transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is turned on the voltage of the control signal SWON for controlling the power switch PSW is maintained at a low level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also allows fine adjustment of the operation of the power switch.

When the circuit block Logic has switched from the active state to the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYP is set to a low level for a predetermined period of time turning on the first gate of the p channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. At that time the second gate of the p channel double gate transistor is also turned on. As a result the voltage of the control signal SWON rapidly rises to a high level. At the same time the voltages of the control signals STBYN and STBYN for controlling the gate electrodes of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV are set to a low level preventing a charge current from flowing through the gate of the power switch PSW.

As a result the power switch PSW is turned off and hence the potential of the power supply voltage line Vddm of the circuit block Logic falls drastically reducing the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. When the circuit block Logic is in the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYP is normally at a high level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the p channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate of the p channel transistor is turned on the voltage of the control signal SWON for controlling the power switch PSW is maintained at a high level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch made up of a p channel transistor to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also allows fine adjustment of the operation of the power switch.

When the circuit block Logic has switched from the active state to the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is set to a high level for a predetermined period of time turning on the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. At that time the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is also turned on. As a result the voltage of the control signal SWON rapidly falls to a low level. At the same time the voltage of the control signal STBYP for controlling the gate electrode of the p channel transistor in the drive circuit DRV is set to a high level preventing a charge current from flowing through the gate of the power switch PSW.

As a result the power switch PSW is turned off and hence the potential of the ground potential line Vssm of the circuit block Logic rises drastically reducing the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. When the circuit block Logic is in the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is normally at a low level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is turned on the voltage of the control signal SWON for controlling the power switch PSW is maintained at a low level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor. As exemplified by the present embodiment the p channel transistor in the drive circuit for generating the control signal SWON may be a single gate transistor instead of a double gate transistor. This also produces the same leakage current reduction effect as the first to fifth embodiments. Furthers the present embodiment has been described with reference to a circuit configuration in which the power switch is inserted between the circuit block and the ground potential line Vssm. However the present embodiment can be applied to a circuit configuration in which the power switch is inserted between the circuit block and the power supply voltage line Vddm as in the fifth embodiment. In such a case a single gate transistor may be used as the n channel transistor in the drive circuit for generating the control signal SWON and a double gate transistor may be used as the p channel transistor in the drive circuit. This arrangement also allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both the circuit block and the leakage current reduction circuit therefor.

One of the most important circuits in an SoC is the SRAM circuit. An SRAM circuit must retain data even when in its standby state. Therefore the above leakage current reduction methods of the second to sixth embodiments cannot be applied to SRAM circuits since these methods entirely cut off power supply to the circuit block or SRAM circuit which leads to data destruction. To circumvent this problem the leakage current of the memory cell array portion of an SRAM circuit may be reduced by adjusting its power supply voltage. As for the other portions a power switch may be used to reduce their leakage current as in the above embodiments.

Since the decoder circuit DEC the peripheral circuits AMP provided for their respective columns and the control circuit CONT need not retain data when the SRAM circuit is in the standby state their leakage current can be reduced using the power switch described in connection with the second to sixth embodiments.

In this state the voltages of the input signals IN and IN of the word line driver are at a high level and hence the voltage of the word line WL is at a low level meaning that the word line WL has not been selected. In this state the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the word line driver WDDR is turned on with the result that a large gate leakage current flows through the gate. Symbol Standby indicates the voltage state when the SRAM circuit is in the standby state. In this state although the SRAM circuit is not operating the voltage of the word line WL is set to a low level to retain data. At that time a low level voltage is applied to the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the word line driver WDDR to turn off this gate. As a result the gate leakage current of the first gate is reduced as compared to when the gate is turned on.

Further a high level voltage is applied to the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the word line driver WDDR to turn on this gate and thereby set the voltage of the word line WL to a low level. Since the gate insulating film for the second gate has a large thickness the gate leakage current of the second gate is negligibly small. Thus the word line driver WDDR of the SRAM circuit shown in exhibits a reduced leakage current.

Although the word line driver WDDR has been described as being made up of an inverter circuit it may be a NAND or NOR circuit. Such an arrangement also allows a reduction in the leakage current of the driver by using a double gate transistor s .

The waveform diagram shown in shows the operation of the circuits shown in . The circuit shown in differs from the conventional circuit shown in in that the power switch MSW and the resistance R shown in are replaced by the single double gate transistor MSR shown in . In the circuit shown in when the power switch that is the double gate transistor MSR is turned on both the first and second gates of the double gate transistor MSR are turned on allowing a large current to pass as compared to when a common single gate transistor is used as the power switch MSW or only the first gate of the double gate transistor is turned on. That is this circuit allows a higher current to flow from the memory cells. This means that inserting this power switch that is the double gate transistor between the memory cell array and ground potential line Vss does not lead to as much reduction in the current flowing from the memory cell array as inserting a conventional power switch. Therefore the above power switch configuration has an advantage over conventional power switch configurations. Furthermore the resistance R shown in can be eliminated as shown in since the second gate of the double gate transistor functions to provide desired resistivity resulting in a reduction in the chip area. Thus the circuit configuration shown in allows a reduction in the leakage current of the memory cells while preventing an increase in the chip area.

Furthermore an increase in the voltage of the memory cell source line ARVSS also results in a reverse back gate bias being applied to the n channel transistors constituting the memory cells thereby significantly reducing the leakage current of these transistors. Due to these effects the leakage current ISRAM of the memory cells is reduced by a factor of approximately 10 as compared to when the memory circuit is operating. The resistance R may be a resistive element. However in the case of an SRAM circuit mounted on an SoC the on resistance of a transistor is used instead of a resistive element in order to reduce process cost. Such a transistor has a large gate length so that its on resistance matches the memory cell leakage current. For example a transistor having a gate length of approximately 10 m is used for a 64 kbit memory array produced by a 90 nm low power process. If the memory array size is reduced the resistance value must be increased since a reduction in the memory array size results in a reduction in the leakage current. However a transistor having a large gate length occupies a large space resulting in increased memory module area.

Thus the present embodiment provides an SRAM circuit that exhibits a reduced leakage current when it is not operating thereby delivering enhanced performance.

In this circuitry when the power switch PSW is turned on both the first and second gates of the double gate transistor constituting the power switch PSW are turned on allowing a large current to pass as compared to when a common single gate transistor is used as the power switch PSW or only the first gate of the double gate transistor is turned on. That is this circuitry allows a larger current to flow from the circuit block Logic. Therefore inserting the above power switch between the circuit block Logic and the ground potential line Vss does not lead to as much reduction in the current flowing from the circuit block Logic as inserting a conventional power switch. Therefore the above power switch configuration has an advantage over conventional power switch configurations.

When the circuit block Logic has switched from the active state to the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is set to a high level for a predetermined period of time turning on the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. At that time the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is also turned on. As a result the voltage of the control signal SWON rapidly falls to a low level. At the same time the control signals STBYP and STBYP for controlling the gate electrodes of the p channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV are set to a high level preventing a charge current from flowing through the gates of the power switch PSW.

As a result the power switch PSW is turned off and hence the potential of the ground potential line Vssm of the circuit block Logic rises drastically reducing the leakage current of the circuit block Logic. When the circuit block Logic is in the standby state the voltage of the control signal STBYN is normally at a low level except for the above predetermined period of time thereby reducing the gate leakage current flowing from the first gate of the n channel double gate transistor in the drive circuit DRV. Further since the second gate of the n channel double gate transistor is turned on the voltage of the control signal SWON for controlling the power switch PSW is maintained at a low level preventing the power switch PSW from turning on.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a simple power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also allows the circuit block or logic circuit to be have enhanced performance.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block or logic circuit and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also enhances the performance of the circuit block or logic circuit by optimizing the control of the power switch.

As a result the leakage current flowing through the power switch PSW is small as compared to the signal voltage state shown in . This means that the leakage current flowing from the circuit block Logic is further reduced as compared to the circuitry shown in . It should be noted that applying a low voltage approximately 2.5 V to the second gate of the power switch PSW does not cause a reliability problem since the gate oxide film for the second gate has a large thickness approximately 10 nm . It should be further noted that the input output circuits in LSIs also use a voltage of 2.5 V. This means that the above arrangement does not require a special power supply circuit such as a booster circuit. Therefore the present embodiment can be applied to LSIs without an increase in the chip area and in the power consumption.

It should be noted that the voltage applied to the second gate of the power switch PSW need not necessarily be 2.5 V. Application of a voltage higher than 1.0 V will provide the same effect. Use of a different voltage than that 2.5 V of the input output circuit requires a special power supply circuit such as a booster circuit. However such an arrangement also can produce the leakage current reduction effect as described above. Further applying a higher voltage than 2.5 V to the second gate results in a further reduction in the leakage current.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block or logic circuit and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment also enhances the performance of the logic circuit or logic circuit by optimizing the control of the power switch.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. The present embodiment provides higher leakage current reduction effect than the fourth embodiment by increasing the voltage applied to the second gate of the p channel double gate transistor in the leakage current reduction circuit or drive circuit .

This results in a situation where it takes some time for the voltage of the control signal SWON to fall to a low level. However this arrangement does not cause a significant problem since the circuit block Logic is normally in the standby state when the control signal SWON is set to a low level. In some cases the above circuit configuration has an advantage. Furthermore there is no need to generate a signal for controlling the first gate resulting in benefits such as reduced power consumption and reduced chip area. Further it is possible to reduce the leakage current of the portion of the circuitry that generates signals.

Thus the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage reduction circuit therefor that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block.

As described above the present embodiment allows a reduction in the leakage currents of both a circuit block and a leakage current reduction circuit that uses a power switch to reduce the leakage current of the circuit block. Further the present embodiment also allows a reduction in the area of the leakage current reduction circuit that controls the power supply to the circuit block through simple control of the power switch.

Thus the present embodiment provides a memory device and a circuit block that exhibit a reduced leakage current.

When the flip flop circuit is put into operation the ground potential line Vssm is connected to the power supply to set the line Vssm to ground potential level Vss and the data in the latch LATCHB is returned to the latch LATCHA through the path RESTORE allowing the circuit to operate as a conventional flip flop.

Thus the present embodiment provides an SRAM memory cell that has good programming or write characteristics and exhibits a reduced leakage current.

When the memory cell operates a lower voltage than the power supply voltage Vdd is applied to the line GP and a higher voltage than the power supply voltage Vss is applied to the line GN to increase the on current of the double gate transistors as compared to the current characteristics shown in thereby enhancing the read write characteristics of the memory cell.

Further when the memory cell does not operate a higher voltage than the power supply voltage Vdd is applied to the line GP and a lower voltage than the power supply voltage Vss is applied to the line GN to reduce the off current of the double gate transistors as compared to the current characteristics shown in thereby reducing the leakage current of these double gate transistors.

In the above example the voltages of the first gates of the p channel double gate transistors and the n channel double gate transistors are changed from the values Vdd and Vss respectively shown in both when the memory cell is operating and when it is not operating. However these voltages may be changed only when the memory cell is or is not operating. Further the word line configuration of the sixteenth embodiment may be added to the above configuration to improve the programming or write characteristics.

Thus the present embodiment provides a high performance SRAM memory cell having a reduced leakage current.

Data is written to this memory cell using the write word line WWL and the write bit lines WBLT and WBLB in the same manner as to the memory cell shown in . On the other hand when data is read from the memory cell the read word line is activated and thereby the data is output from the memory cell to the read bit line RBL through the transfer transistor MT.

It should be noted that since the latch circuits in the memory cell circuits shown in are made up of the second gates of double gate transistors their drive current is small. Therefore in the case of the memory cell shown in data might be damaged when it is read from the latch circuit. In the case of the memory cell of the present embodiment shown in however data is safely read from the latch circuit without damage since no voltage is applied to the portion of the latch circuit that stores data.

Although the present embodiment has been described with reference to an SRAM memory cell circuit that includes only a single read bit line the technique of the present embodiment may be applied to a memory cell circuit employing two read bit lines for complementary signals.

Thus the present embodiment provides an SRAM memory cell that has enhanced read write characteristics and exhibits a reduced leakage current.

