---

title: Master multimedia software controls
abstract: A software control mechanism is disclosed for use with a plurality of media applications. The software control mechanism comprises a media control panel structured for use with a plurality of media applications. The media control panel is independent of each media application. Each media application is displayed within a computer screen. The software control mechanism is structured to control a function of a presently interfaced media application on the display screen. Further, as the presently interfaced media application changes on the display screen, the media control panel for that media application is displayed along a same boundary of the computer screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07559027&OS=07559027&RS=07559027
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 07559027
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060228
---
The present invention generally relates to the field of multimedia devices and more specifically to a software configured multimedia control mechanism.

Software control mechanisms for conventional software multimedia players are known. Conventionally a multimedia application executes within a conventional multimedia player window. When a multimedia application is selected the conventional multimedia player launches somewhere on a user s computer screen and a user must then look at the multimedia player to determine where the control buttons are to control functionality of the multimedia application. Thus a lack of consistent placement of control mechanisms for a multimedia player on a computer screen results in lost productivity from a user having to search for those mechanisms.

Further complicating matters conventional software multimedia players are rigid with respect to their control mechanisms. The control mechanisms remain the same regardless of the presently executing multimedia application. The control mechanism stays the same for a video multimedia application a photo album multimedia application or a voice recorder multimedia application despite changing functionality. Thus a user is not presented with a control mechanism that is structured to be intuitive for a user. Instead a user is required to know which buttons on the multimedia player correspond to which control functions for the multimedia application In turn rather than simplifying user interactions conventional systems add to user confusion because of their rigidity and inability to present users with more intuitive user interfaces.

From a multimedia application developer s perspective having a more configurable control mechanism for products increases user satisfaction and helps increase usage. However most application developers must conform to the rigid specifications of the established multimedia players. Alternatively the application developers can create their own custom designed device control screens as well as handle all user interactions device communications and screen changes. However such approaches are time consuming and costly for application developers.

Thus from the above there is a need for a system and process for a master multimedia control mechanism that 1 provides a consistency of presentation location on a computer screen 2 is flexible with respect to function control mechanisms provided and 3 provides application developers application programming interfaces that allow for some customization of assignment of functional control relative to control mechanisms.

In one embodiment a software control mechanism is structured for use with a plurality of media applications. The software control mechanism comprises a media control panel structured for use with two or more media applications. In one embodiment the media control panel is independent of the two or more media applications. Each media application is displayed within a computer screen. The software control mechanism is structured to control a function of a presently interfaced media application on the display screen. Further as the presently interfaced media application changes on the display screen the media control panel for that media application is displayed along a same boundary or location of the computer screen. It is noted that presently interfaced included an application a user is presently interacting with and is visible.

By way of example a handheld computing device having a display screen may be configured to execute a video playback application and a voice recorder application each of which are example media applications. The presently interfaced media application is the application with which a user is presently performing a function. For example when a user is playing the video and exercising function control over that video that is the presently interfaced visible media application. Likewise by way of example if the user then switches to the voice recorder application and inputs a voice memo the voice recorder application is the media application being presently interfaced visible .

A media control panel is configured to display a one or more buttons to a user. The buttons may be structured to function with touch sensitive or inductive pen computer screens so that when the buttons are touched or selected the function corresponding to that button is executable or executed. Functionality can be associated with the one or more buttons through an application programming interface API that maps a function or functions from a media application to a particular button or buttons. In one embodiment the functions associated with the one or more buttons changes as the presently interfaced media application changes. In addition the media control panel is configured to be consistently displayed along a same boundary or location of a computer screen even as the functionality of its particular button or buttons changes with a change of the presently interfaced application.

The present invention provides a benefit of having a consistent user interface for control over media applications which provides ease of understanding and use with respect to each media application. In addition it relieves programmers of media control applications from the burdens of designing and placing media control panels with their developed media application because the media control panel is independent of the media application. Thus the application program need only assign functionality to the particular buttons through the appropriate API to associate functionality of the media player with particular buttons on the media control panel.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments of the present invention by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of the claimed invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Generally the disclosed embodiments describe a master multimedia control mechanism that is uniform across a broad array of application operating on a computing device. A computing device is any device structured to execute software enabled multimedia applications. In one embodiment the master multimedia control mechanism panel is software enabled. In addition examples of computing devices include personal computer systems laptop or notebook computer systems and handheld computer devices. Examples of a handheld computer device includes a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone multimedia enabled phone multimedia enabled devices e.g. the iPod from Apple Computer Systems Inc. the Zen from Creative Laboratories Inc. or the PSP from Sony Corporation .

Referring to back to the handheld computing device includes a screen or display a screen navigation interface an expansion port or slot a stylus a microphone and one or more control buttons e.g. voice recorder button screen rotation button etc. generally . The screen is for example a 240 240 a 320 320 or a 320 480 transflective TFT color display that includes touch screen or inductive pen support. The expansion slot is configured to receive and support expansion cards or media cards that include memory cards such as CompactFlash cards SD cards XD cards Memory Sticks MultiMediaCard SDIO and the like. Further the screen navigation interface the stylus the microphone and the one or more control buttons are conventional although various functions can be applied to them. Again it is noted that in a keyboard may be integrated as illustrated in

Turning to illustrated is one embodiment of a computing architecture of the handheld computing device in accordance with the present invention. The architecture includes a processor or CPU a storage device a memory an expansion or media port interface an optional graphics engine an audio processing engine a network interface and one or more other input output I O port interfaces . Each of the components of the computing architecture may communicatively couple through a data bus .

In addition the architecture also includes an operating system that interfaces with the components of the computing architecture. A media control mechanism or panel is configured to interact with the operating system . Likewise one or more applications are configured to communicate with the operating system . The media control mechanism and the applications are communicatively coupled for example thought the operating system and the applications can access the media control mechanisms through an application programming interface. The media control mechanisms are configured to provide functional control relative to media applications as further described herein.

The processor is a conventional processor or controller such as an Intel XScale processor. The storage device is a conventional long term storage device for example a hard drive e.g. magnetic hard drive or a flash memory drive. The memory is a conventional computing memory such as a random access memory RAM . The expansion port interface is configured to interface with a media card such as the ones previously described. The optional graphics engine may include hardware e.g. graphics chip in addition to software to enhance graphics for display on the screen .

The audio processing engine is configured for audio related processing such as recording and playback. The audio processing engine includes appropriate hardware e.g. microphone speaker and or ports or jacks and software e.g. sound controls to achieve such functionality. The network interface is configured for network connections to a wide range of networks and includes appropriate hardware and software to communicatively couple to such networks. Examples of networks that can be configured to function with the handheld computing device include personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth wireless networks e.g. IEEE 802.11 and telecommunications networks e.g. cellular or data . The one or more other I O ports include interfaces for connections such as universal serial bus USB IEEE 1394 e.g. FireWire and the like.

In addition it is noted that the handheld computing device is configured to use conventional operating systems such as Palm OS from ACCESS Co. Ltd Tokyo Japan or Windows Mobile from Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. . It is noted that the device can also be configured for use with other operating systems for example Linux based operating systems.

In this example embodiment a user may create or have a previously created photo album . When the photo album is opened the contents may be shown as thumbnails . In addition a control panel appears along one boundary of the screen for example a bottom boundary of the screen . In a preferred embodiment the control panel is along an entire length of the boundary of the screen.

The control panel includes one or more central media control buttons one is shown in this screen and one or more outer edge control buttons generally . The central control button is configured or adapted to provide a primary functionality of the media application. In this example of the photo album application this primary functionality could be a slide show. Thus the central control button provides a play function to begin playing the slide show which will be further described with

The one or more outer control buttons are configured to be assigned functionality consistent with primary functions of the particular application that is presently being interacted with e.g. the user is interacting with such application . In the example of the photo album application the outer control buttons are configured to execute additional functionality for the application. In the photo album example this additional functionality includes a camera picture taking function electronic transmission e.g. e mail or messaging and album management functions e.g. photo album selection sorting etc. .

Continuing with the example if a sorting mode e.g. was selected to add pictures to the Family Vacation photo album an Add to Album screen is displayed with thumbnail pictures that can be added see screenshot . The user can select a thumbnail and that picture will be added to the Family Vacation photo album. The selection can be made through for example the screen navigation interface or the keypad . If an album selection e.g. is selected a list of available albums is displayed see screenshot .

Once an album is created and is ready for presentation the photo album can be placed to a play mode. This occurs with the user selection the play button from among the central control buttons on the control panel . In the play button is the only central control button .

With the photo album application changing from the organization or album review mode to a play mode illustrates a change in the application interface that reflects the modal change. Specifically the application can be configured to play a slide show without displaying the control panel as shown in screenshot . If the control panel is displayed on the screen e.g. screen when the slide show is playing it is configured to be along the same boundary or location and the prior control panel. In addition it is now configured to include additional control mechanisms relevant to the photo album application.

In the illustrated example shown in screenshot central media control buttons now include a large pause button and two smaller buttons one indicating reverse and the other indicating fast forward . In this embodiment the control panel is advantageously structured to display the function most likely to be used by the user in this operational mode the pause function as the largest button. Further because the control panel is structured along the entire length of the bottom boundary the pause button is immediately at a center of the screen. Configuring and placing the pause button and thus corresponding functionality in this location while in the play mode allows for ease of use because the button readily stands out and can be quickly located and accessed by the user.

If the user selects the pause button the large central button on the control panel changes with this change in operational mode to be configured for a play button and corresponding play function. Again because play is the most likely function to be selected when the operational mode is paused it is assigned the largest button for this mode within the application. When the user selects the play button the operational mode changes again as the slide show resumes and now the large central button once again becomes the pause function.

In addition to changes in the central media control buttons the outer media control buttons also change when the application mode changes to play. In this example one outer button is used to indicate a go back e.g. to prior mode of album review while another button maintains an electronic transmission button

The central media control buttons are configured to execute functionality associated with the voice memo application. For example in screenshot the central media buttons include buttons corresponding to previous selection and next selection . As previously noted with the photo album application the most prominent functionality will be at the center of the media control panel which in this example is the central media control buttons . Moreover the central media control buttons are configured so that the most prominent function likely to be accessed by a user in this mode play record has the largest surface area for ease of viewing and selection.

As with the photo album application the voice memo application media control panel is configured to change as its functionality changes while still retaining its present location on a screen e.g. the screen . For example once the play record button is selected from the central media control buttons media control panel displays a different central media control button the corresponds to functionality most likely to be selected in this mode of the application. In the present example the central media control button in this mode corresponds to either a stop function as shown in screenshot or a pause function as shown in screenshot .

The outer media control buttons correspond to additional functionality associated with the voice memo application. For example one button is configured to prepare the application for a new voice recording and another button is configured to electronically communicate e.g. email or instant messenger a previously recorded voice message. It is noted that the electronic communication function can be configured to interface an electronic communication application already present on a device e.g. an application on the handheld computing device through the electronic communication application s existing application programming interface.

In one embodiment the media control panel is configured for display along a bottom boundary of the handheld computing device screen . However it is noted that the media control panel can be structured to move on the screen . For example if additional media application details are present e.g. a listing of previously recorded voice memos the media control panel may be re positioned or re rendered to another location on the screen such as the center of the screen . In this configuration the boundary changes to a location on the screen to where the additional information window is open. The configuration may be used for example to select and electronically communicate previously recorded voice memos delete messages or to change message names. When the additional details are no longer needed the additional details can be hidden from view and the media control panel can be re positioned back to along the bottom boundary of the screen not shown .

The outer media control buttons correspond to additional functionality that is associated with the music application and most likely to be used by a user. For example one button is configured to provide a music listing and another button is configured to control volume speaker functions. It is noted that the volume speaker functions can be configured to interface with a device e.g. through the audio processing engine of the handheld computing device volume speaker application programming interface.

As with the voice memo application illustrated in the music application illustrated in may include additional data that can be displayed on the screen for example a playlist . When the playlist is displayed the media control panel can be configured to move its interface from a boundary along a button of the screen to the center of the screen . When the playlist is no longer needed the media control panel can be configured to be re rendered along the initial boundary e.g. the bottom boundary of the screen .

As with the other media applications the media control panel can be configured to display along a boundary e.g. bottom boundary of the screen of e.g. the handheld computing device . In addition as the mode of the video application changes e.g. from pause screenshot to play screenshot the functional buttons on the center media control buttons change accordingly to provide a user with the functionality most likely to be sought by a user. The video application also includes one or more outer buttons for example a return to a menu function or an electronic communication function.

Like the other media applications the media control panel can be configured to move locations on the screen e.g. to the middle of the screen in order to display more information e.g. a video list. The media control panel can then reposition or re render itself back along a boundary once there is no need or desire to display the additional information. It is noted that the system can be configured so that a user can customize where the media control panel would be consistently located on the screen for this or any other media application.

In this example embodiment once the video application is launched and play is selected the media control panel can be configured to disappear from the screen as shown in screenshot so that more area is present to display the video. The media control panel can be configured to re emerge or re render by selecting a physical button on a device e.g. a keyboard on the handheld computing device or some other predefined activity such as tapping on a touch screen of a handheld computing device .

With the broadcast streaming to the handheld computing device a central media control buttons are configured to provide functionality to rewind . In this embodiment the rewind and play media control buttons are configured to allow live video manipulation such as rewind and forward because of buffering capabilities with the device e.g. in a memory or storage device of the handheld computing device . Alternatively the central media control buttons can be configured so that one rewind and fast forward buttons correspond to channel down and channel up. As with the other media applications the media control panel includes outer media control buttons that correspond to functionality most likely to be accessed by a user. For example return to a main channel menu or electronic communications.

The present invention also is configured so that when one or more media applications is operational the system is configured to display and enable the interface of the media application the user is presently interfacing with. For example if a user has a video application a voice memo application and a photo album application executing the media control panel displayed or rendered and enabled is the media control panel corresponding the application that is presently interface. When the user changes the application being presently interface e.g. going from watching a video in the video application to dictating a voice memo in the voice memo application the corresponding media control panel changes to display the buttons of the now presently interfaced application e.g. change from the video control panel to the voice memo control panel . Further the media control panel associated with the presently interfaced media application appears in the same location on a device screen e.g. the screen of the handheld computing system as the media control panel of the previously interfaced media application. Thus a user interacting with the system is able to readily locate and interact with the application and have control buttons and functionality displayed that are optimized for the media application presently interfaced.

Each of the media applications described herein can be configured to allow for customization of the control panel by a user. For example the buttons may be rendered as icons and associated functionality that a user can map together. This allows for greater user flexibility in controlling their media environment. In such instances the placement of the control panel relative to a screen e.g. screen on handheld computing device will remain consistent so that a user is able to quickly locate and interact with the media control for the particular media application. This simplifies ease of use and helps enhance productivity since the functionality accessed most commonly is allowed to stand apart from other functions.

Moreover the present invention can be configured to include an application programming interface through with applications may access the functionality of the media control center and its mechanisms e.g. . The media control center can be structured so that it directly interfaces with the computing system e.g the operating system and system components such as the graphics engine and audio processing engine to exercise control over features such as volume sound and the like.

The present invention provides a benefit of having a consistent user interface for control over media applications which provides ease of understanding and use with respect to each media application. In addition it relieves programmers of media control applications from the burdens of designing and placing media control panels with their developed media application because the media control panel is independent of the media application. Thus the application program need only assign functionality to the particular buttons through the appropriate API to associate functionality of the media player with particular buttons on the media control panel.

As recognized through the example of the handheld computing device embodiment described herein the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented using one or more hardware elements. In general a hardware element may refer to any hardware structures arranged to perform certain operations. In one embodiment for example the hardware elements may include any analog or digital electrical or electronic elements fabricated on a substrate. The fabrication may be performed using silicon based integrated circuit IC techniques such as complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar and bipolar CMOS BiCMOS techniques for example. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using one or more software elements. In general a software element may refer to any software structures arranged to perform certain operations. In one embodiment for example the software elements may include program instructions and or data adapted for execution by a hardware element such as a processor. Program instructions may include an organized list of commands comprising words values or symbols arranged in a predetermined syntax that when executed may cause a processor to perform a corresponding set of operations.

The software may be written or coded using a programming language. Examples of programming languages may include C C BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. The software may be stored using any type of computer readable media or machine readable media. Furthermore the software may be stored on the media as source code or object code. The software may also be stored on the media as compressed and or encrypted data. Examples of software may include any software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using any computer readable media machine readable media or article capable of storing software. The media or article may include any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit such as any of the examples described with reference to a memory. The media or article may comprise memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD subscriber identify module tape cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code object code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

Also use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of embodiments of the present invention. This was done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments of the present invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for a software configured multimedia control mechanism through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

