---

title: System and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi-directional channel based multimedia content
abstract: A system for creating and distributing asynchronous bi-directional channel based multimedia content including means for creating a selectable list of channels, each channel to contain multimedia content related to each of the list channel; means for recording the multimedia content by a content author relating to the channels; means for uploading and storing the recorded multimedia content to its particular channel on a multimedia server; means for displaying the selectable list of channels to users; and responsive to selecting one of the channel by at least one of the users, means for displaying the multimedia content on a computing device to at least one of the users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08001474&OS=08001474&RS=08001474
owner: Embarq Holdings Company, LLC
number: 08001474
owner_city: Overland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060925
---
The present invention relates generally to multimedia content streaming and more particularly to a system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content.

Computing devices such as personal computers media players and hand held wireless computing devices have enjoyed in recent years an enormous growth in utility. Early computers enabled users to perform tasks such as word processing and bookkeeping. Today computers media players hand held wireless devices are used to manage display and manipulate multimedia data such as digital video and audio content. Additionally computers have become popular devices for communicating nearly as common as telephones and televisions. In particular computers are being increasingly used to convey desired multimedia content to users for various purposes ranging from educational purposes to informational purposes.

Communicating audio and video information between computing devices in a dynamic environment can be problematic. First many conventional computers include software for handling audio and video information that is inconvenient to use based on standards that are incompatible with the media that users wish to view. Add to this the average size of multiple multimedia files in relation to the user s availability of hard drive storage and capacity. Users often experience and enjoy only a fraction of the vast selection of multimedia and video file types and sizes available. For example a user desiring to link their computer to a website or other computer featuring an audio video clip can download or copy the clip into their local hard drive and then play back the downloaded copy on their computer as long as their computer or device has the correct plug in or supports the media file type specific to the downloaded file. Otherwise they must rely on variable servers network connections and standards to play this media live.

Many of the current generation of multimedia devices utilizes real simplified syndication RSS technology to enable users to subscribe to a particular format such as Apple iPod s pod casts which are then pushed to a user s iTunes play list. This particular format is unidirectional meaning it pushes the multimedia content to users in one direction but does not enable users to record live multimedia content back the other direction to the iTunes software.

Also online video blogging software such as Hipcast formerly known as Audioblog and others enable recording of video content but do not automate distribution to subscriber based channels in an automated fashion. Moreover most multimedia blogging software supports a lower quality video compression method than typically desired.

Collaborative software such as Adobe Breeze Live WebEx and Centra enable live collaboration of users with video conferences or text chat. These are primarily for synchronous communications such that they serve the purpose of communicating the multimedia content bi directionally in near real time. Nevertheless 

The above described problems are solved and a technical advance achieved by the present system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content. The present system provides a method for creating and distributing video content for learning and communication. The system enables a community of users with access to a common network for instance within a corporation or educational institution to record videos attach supplemental content if desired store searchable videos by topic in directories known as channels and alert subscribers to those channels that new content is available.

In an informational and educational setting the present system enables subject matter experts instructors and the like to rapidly create instructional multimedia content such as videos that is targeted to certain segments of learners and users. The present system provides a type of learning sometimes referred to as drip learning which can include follow up instruction from a classroom event periodic updates information on a topic by a subject matter expert or an announcement by a leader or executive expected to effect action or a change in behavior by the user.

The present system also applies in broader settings such as a tool to enable representatives of a corporation to educate its external customers investors and analysts about important current affairs that may affect their relationships and businesses. In addition the present system may be used by non profit organizations public and private K 12 schools universities or by governments to educate their members and constituents.

Learning and communication is rapidly facilitated with the present system. The present system utilizes web enabled video cameras webcams to record video by a content author for learning educational instructional and informational purposes. After a video is recorded any user who subscribes or is a member of a channel of the present system can view the video through either a push process or a pull process on their personal computer or hand held wireless communication device such as a wireless personal digital assistant PDA or cell phone with network access. Users may also collaborate with each other through real time communication functions both video and text . Through the present system and method users can very quickly create receive and interact with educational instructional and informational multimedia content about business changes and developments of a particular organization or business.

The present system allows any user with proper administrative rights to record their own multimedia content directly to the present system. The recorded multimedia content is instantly compressed through technology on the present system making it instantly available to viewers when the content creator is done recording. In addition any user who can view recorded content with the proper administrative rights can record or upload multimedia content back to the present system either in response to the viewed multimedia content or as a new piece of information or instructional content without the restriction.

Users require little to no video production knowledge and minimal equipment to create video content with the present system. The present system provides all processing compression distribution and playback functionality required to support the method for creating and viewing multimedia content without using a media player limited to media file types. The user need only supply a personal computer or wireless handheld device equipped with a webcam.

A system for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content including means for creating a selectable list of channels each channel to contain multimedia content related to each of the list channel means for recording the multimedia content by a content author relating to the channels means for uploading searching and storing the recorded multimedia content to its particular channel on a multimedia server means for displaying the selectable list of channels to users and responsive to selecting one of the channel by at least one of the users means for displaying the multimedia content on a computing device to at least one of the users.

The term multimedia content means media that may use one or more forms of content and information processing including voice audio video text interactive content animation graphics and the like to convey information to a user. Referring to like reference numerals are used to indicate like parts throughout the drawings. Referring to illustrates embodiments and of an exemplary network of computers in a system for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content according to an embodiment of the present invention. The present system may include a group of servers and that may or may not be centrally located to each other. In this embodiment servers and are shown grouped together and located at a central office . Server may be a database server server may be a web server and server may be a multimedia server. In embodiment server is preferably not included.

In one embodiment server functions to store data related to the multimedia content. An exemplary server may be a relational database server such as Microsoft SQL server and the like. Server functions primarily as a web server for enabling communications between servers and and users and content authors through a network . Server is preferably a multimedia content server for uploading compressing storing and distributing preferably in a streaming format multimedia content to users . An exemplary server is Adobe s Flash Media Server 2. It should be understood that one or more databases may be utilized. Some of the databases may be relational databases or configured otherwise as understood in the art.

In addition to the servers the present system may include personal computers and . Personal computers and may also include other peripherals such as keyboards displays microphones and the like. The present system may also include digital videos cameras and for creating digital images for use in the present system .

The present system may also include portable wireless communication devices and . Some exemplary portable wireless communication devices and include cell phones PDAs personal media players and the like. Wireless communications networks may be used to connect the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and to the network or directly to the central office .

The servers and the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and may be interconnected by a network . Network may be a communications network a computer network a combination of them and the like. Some exemplary networks include WANs LANs Internet etc. The network may be the Internet intranet or other communication system capable of communicating information between computing devices. The server and may communicate data packets and depicted in containing information related to creating and distributing multimedia content to any one of the other servers and as understood in the art. Similarly the servers and may communicate information to the server via data packets and respectively via the network .

As discussed above the present system and may use any number of personal computers and any number of portable wireless communication devices they may connect to the network through a any of the servers and . Each of the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and may access web server to communicate with the network or they may connect directly such as through an intranet to the central office . In addition each of the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and may communicate with the network through individual and separate servers . As discussed above server may host any number of personal computers and portable wireless communication devices and respectively utilized by users and content authors .

The servers and may include a processor and that executes software and respectively. The processor and may be in communication with memory and an input output I O unit and and a storage unit and respectively. The storage unit and may store databases or data repositories and respectively thereon. The software and may include instructions for execution by the processor and for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional multimedia content in accordance with the principles of the present system. In addition the software and may include instructions for communicating between the servers and any other computing functionality required to operate the present system. In one embodiment the software and is composed of a software program as further described herein.

In operation any of the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and may execute the software and to enable the users and content authors at to utilize their personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and for example either directly with the servers and or indirectly via the network .

Software and generally is stored and operated on the servers personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and and may enable users and content authors to view and hear the multimedia content such as audio and video files. The software provides compression functionality to enable the multimedia content to be efficiently and effectively created and distributed throughout the present system and . In particular the software provides some aspect of traditional streaming media capabilities to create and distribute multimedia content in formats such as video on demand web event broadcasts MP3 streaming as well as rich media communication applications like multimedia chat environments and video messaging. Some exemplary software and may be Macromedia Flash browser plug in and Flash Lite. The present system and will operate and display in any commonly used web browser that are capable of supporting the multimedia streams provided by the servers and particularly server .

Also software and includes all of the necessary application programming interfaces APIs for the peripherals such as the cameras and microphones and any other peripherals of the present system and . Additionally software and provide functionality within the present system and for compressing the multimedia content files so that they may be communicated among the servers and at a lower bit rate and file size. Software and further may include encryption algorithms for delivering the multimedia content among the servers and and the personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and over a secure communications link.

Another feature of software and is that it distributes multimedia content to users generally produced by content authors . The present system and enables a content author with the ability to create as many channels as described further below as they desire to be viewed by the users . Some exemplary aspects of this feature of the present system and are known as real simplified syndication RSS RSS feeds RSS aggregators RSS channels and RSS readers. Further software and may also use markup languages to code the features described herein. Generally these markup languages facilitate the purpose of sharing the multimedia content across the present system and . An exemplary language is Extensible Markup Language XML . Other exemplary markup languages include GML RDF SML RSS Atom MathML XHTML SVG XUL EAD Klip and the like. The present system and may place the channel information into a single file that is coded in such a markup language and read by a complimentary reader such as an RSS aggregator. The servers and may send out a markup language file that may be read by the RSS feed aggregator that may be located on the user s personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and . Then the multimedia content and formats as described herein can be downloaded or played on the user s personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and by sending the content from the servers and .

In one embodiment the present system uses a push method for distributing multimedia content to users . In this embodiment the multimedia content is pushed to users via email or intranet portal based on the channel that is selected by the user as further described below. In one embodiment users either self subscribe or are subscribed to channels based on a learning need area of interest or organizational functional association. Through administrative controls in system and content authors determine per channel whether all or select content is pushed to users via e mail or portal notification.

The present system and schedules the distribution of emails to target audiences announcing availability of recordings. Also the present system and emails potential users of certain multimedia content that might be of interest by including the URL address for the link that provides access to video audio content. It also provides for ability to create the distribution set for emails for users which may be selected from a company s human resources database.

In another embodiment the present system uses a pull method and for distributing multimedia content to users . In this embodiment a channel is looked up or selected and the multimedia content is pulled from the servers and based on the search or channel lookup. Preferably this is a self directed behavior by users who may wish to peruse channel content at a point of need or based on a desire to research channel content. As such users access system and through using a login interface depicted in .

In addition an online user s window displays the names of all the online users content authors or both. In one aspect the online user s window will display the names of the users that are members of the same channel or community based on the profile of the users . If a user wishes to engage in a video chat with the other online users shown in the online user s window then they would select the start video chat button to initiate a real time multimedia chat with the other online users . Similarly if the users wished to just engage in a text chat then they would select the start text chat button . If the start video chat button is selected the main display screen may display an equal number of individual displays showing each online user . This is especially useful following a viewing of a channel by the users where they wish to further discuss what they viewed and further their understanding of the content contained therein. In addition an expert in the field or instructor may participate in the video or text chat after their presentation to field more inquiries from the participants.

The record video button will display the video recording window when it is selected as discussed further below. The record audio button will display an audio recording window when it is selected similar to the video recording window . The upload video button and upload audio button will compress these media to the server when it is selected. The main page further presents a play list of multimedia content related to each particular channel when it is selected. The play list displays in a tabular view the titles and other data for any multimedia content such as videos contained in a channel that a user opens in the channel list . The main page also displays a play list button and a play once button . The play list button will play all multimedia content in the play list by whatever order the user sorts the list. The play once button allows the user to click on the individual play button in the launch column for the multimedia content the user wishes to view. A category column description column author column comments column length column and publish date column are also displayed on the main page to present additional indicia and data related to each play list listed on the main page . The edit play list item button and delete play list item allow an administrator or content author to edit the keywords indicia data or information related to an item of multimedia content such as a video. In addition in the most upper right hand corner is a connectivity status that displays the status of the users and connectivity to the present system and with either a red or green graphical light signifying either disconnected or connected status.

The view or display of the present system and may be customized for each user based on both the channels that a user is subscribed to and the level of administrative rights that a user possesses. The channels help to segment the multimedia content when it is published by a content author and when users who are interested in specific multimedia content can search for them easily because they belong to a particular channel .

Yet another feature of the present system and is the use of catalogues for establishing sets of multimedia contents on topics that the administrator links to the channels . This way all related and important individual multimedia content files would be played at the same time for improved comprehension and understanding to the users . For example if there are ten related multimedia contents related in a certain way then it would be beneficial to a user to be presented these media in one sequential viewing.

Upon completion of recording the user has the ability to click a button in control panel to play the multimedia content back. The video recording window will not close until the user or content author enters text in fields labeled Title Description Category and Notes URL as discussed below. These items are displayed back to the main page when a multimedia content is opened through the channel it is recorded to.

Alternatively a camera s video feed can be directed to a users desktop rather than a videographed camera image to capture actions and navigation in software on a user s computer desktop. The present system and treats this the same as any video feed and requires the user to enter a title description and keywords before saving it to a channel. Users may undertake a similar process to record audio only although the data feed within the present system and comes from the users microphone on their personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and

The content author may also add data in the data fields such as title description category and notes URL . When the content author selects the save video button the video is uploaded and stored to the server . Other data that may be uploaded along with the video is title metadata description of the video an associated URL category etc. Most of this data is stored to the server for later access by a user . This data assists a content user with searching for multimedia content related to a particular channel.

Once content is recorded to a channel it may be instantly compressed by the technology underlying the present system. The compression reduces the size of the media file to ease network traffic and download speed. Users listed in the database or server for each channel as subscribers are then notified via e mail that new content has been posted to the channel . Users can then select on a system generated URL in the e mail to access the present system and launch the video in a player window this is the push process for content distribution as discussed above. At anytime users have the ability to launch the present system and peruse the contents of the channels they are subscribed to and enjoy multimedia content such as videos and audio content from the play list this is the pull process and for content distribution as discussed above.

An additional feature of the present system and is the ability to upload existing media files that were created outside of the system such as by professional video studios and the like to a system channel . These files are also compressed after they are uploaded and display in the media player of the users personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and just as a file recorded with the present system.

Another feature of the content creation process in the present system and is the management of a quality assurance process of recorded videos. At the discretion of an administrator multimedia content such as videos can be inactive in the channel not viewable by users until a they are reviewed and approved. Once a reviewer designates the content as approved it becomes active in the channel . If a reviewer does not approve content for posting to a channel then the originator or content author is notified of this decision via e mail.

In addition the present system and has functionality to allow a content author to edit their recording before uploading it to the system. Further the present system allows the content author to edit the recordings by enabling them to clip several recordings together.

In one embodiment users connected to the network may access a web browser. A layer of security may prevent non authorized users from accessing the present system and but also may retrieve the users account credentials to build a personalized channel list based on the users subscriptions stored in a database such as server . If a user does not have credentials or authorization the present system and may enable them to create an account after validation of their e mail address. Users may also be reminded of their password if they ve lost it.

As discussed above the present system and provides real time compression of videos that are streamed and stored to the server using compression and transfer protocol such as FMS by Macromedia . Upon recording storing of a video or other multimedia content the multimedia content resides in a director of channels on the server and stores metadata related to the piece of media in server for ease of retrieval and management by a user or content author . Metatagging the videos enable search ability based on keywords channel or authors across the entire present system. The server also serves as a repository for user profiles and privileges as discussed above. Channels and media package information is also stored in the server as well as user subscriptions to these channels .

Another feature of the present system and is that it rates by several methods the popularity of its multimedia content for more beneficial presentation to its users . For example the present system and inquires with the users regarding their impressions of a particular multimedia content and then notes these inquiries into the server for rating purposes. Then the present system and can use this survey data to then present the multimedia content in the play list accordingly from most popular to least popular. It is also a way of determining whether some content needs to be improved.

In addition the present system and allows users to provide their feedback to a message board and record their specific comments about each multimedia content within each channel . The message board may also contain a thread for the channel .

Another feature of the present system and is its ability to take like screenshots or captures and incorporate them into the content author s multimedia content. This provides a fuller multimedia presentation to the user . For example a content author can record the video of himself presenting information and then take a screenshot of his computer and add that to the presentation. This allows the content author to capture and integrate various other media into his video presentation during the presentation.

An example will be useful in understanding the functionality and power of the present system and . A workforce in a company employs one set of sales people to sell a line of products to small businesses and another set of sales people to sell consumer products. Even though they belong to the same sales force they might subscribe to a different channels where they would see video tutorials or see bits of videos that are related to their specific field of sales. Also each of the groups can subscribe to more general channels such as an executive message channel to receive important communications from the executives of the company.

The above example fosters collaboration among the users by allowing them to provide feedback to each other about a particular piece of multimedia content they viewed through video and text chat as discussed above from their personal computers and and the portable wireless communication devices and . This would likely produce a richer feedback from sales people saying well I agree with this but if you add this to it then it would become even more effective. 

The present system and assign and maintain roles of its users administrators and content authors . This function directs the access to certain parts of the present system such as viewing listening recording and the like. The present system also assigns access to specific channels within the system. It may utilize active directory authentication or another authentication protocol as understood in the art to undertake this function.

In one aspect the present system and assigns each channel an owner who approves the multimedia content and the selection content for that particular channel . In addition each channel may have a public versus a private classification for further controlling the access to the system. The present system and also provide accessibility to the disabled user and is useable in foreign languages.

In addition to the aforementioned aspects and embodiments of the present system for creating and distributing asynchronous bidirectional channel based multimedia content the present invention further includes methods for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content. illustrates a flow diagram of an embodiment of one such process.

In step a selectable list of channels that each contains multimedia content is created. In step a multimedia content is recorded by a content author that is related to one of the channels. In step the recorded multimedia content is uploaded and stored to its particular channel on a multimedia server. In step a selectable list of channels is displayed to at least one user. In step the multimedia content of a particular channel is displayed on a computing device to at least one user responsive to the user selecting one of the channels.

Although there has been described what is at present considered to be the preferred embodiments of the system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content it will be understood that the system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. For example multimedia servers other than those described herein could be used without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all aspects as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the system and method for creating and distributing asynchronous bi directional channel based multimedia content is indicated by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description.

