---

title: Roll for charging belt for inkjet recording and inkjet recording apparatus
abstract: The present invention provides a roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording, in which the roll has a surface layer including a fluororesin and having a nip resistance of 10to 10Ω at 23° C. and 55% RH formed on a roll having an underlayer formed on the outer peripheral surface of a metal core material, and an inkjet recording apparatus equipped with the roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07789505&OS=07789505&RS=07789505
owner: Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.
number: 07789505
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061030
---
The present invention relates to a roll for charging a belt for an inkjet recording apparatus and an inkjet recording apparatus and especially relates to a roll for charging a belt in which the roll performs charging of the belt and eliminating of the charge of the belt that transports a recording medium and the inkjet recording apparatus.

Conventionally in an inkjet recording apparatus images are formed on a recording medium by ejecting an ink liquid while the medium is scanned with an inkjet head moving in a main scanning direction and after completing one scanning line the medium is transported a predetermined increment in the sub scanning direction and the medium is scanned in the main scanning direction again.

In the transportation of the recording medium because it is necessary to transport the medium a predetermined distance with high accuracy the recording medium is transported while the medium is electrostatically attracted to the surface of a transporting belt by charging the transporting belt. When residual electric charges exist on the transporting belt the desired amount of electric charge is not obtained so that a stable attraction force cannot be obtained.

In order to obtain a stable attraction force at the surface of the transporting belt a method of a paper transporting apparatus equipped with a charge eliminating brush for eliminating charges on an electrostatic attraction belt has been known.

A method to perform charge elimination using a charge eliminating apparatus such as a corotron a scorotron a charge eliminating brush and a charge eliminating roll in an apparatus such as an electrostatic recording apparatus is known.

However in a paper transporting apparatus using a charge eliminating brush the charge eliminating capability decreases at a part of transporting belt corresponding to the position where the brush bristles are deformed or have fallen out and the apparatus cannot perform stable charging property. Further there is a concern that the bristles that have fallen out attach to other mechanisms in the paper transporting apparatus and cause adverse effects and there is a problem that the reliability of the apparatus is lowered for example due to a concern of deteriorated charging property caused by bristles attached to a charger and a concern of deterioration in image quality caused by the bristles attached to the recording medium or the inkjet head.

In the method using the above described charge eliminating apparatus such as a corotron and a scorotron there is a problem that the apparatus is difficult to make small because of the additional requirement to have a mechanism to generate voltage and its required space and also as a result the cost of the apparatus as a whole increases. Further the conventional corotron and scorotron are easily affected by the generation of ozone surface hydrophilization and discharging deterioration and so such an apparatus is not preferable from the aspect of space taken up by the apparatus and cost.

On the other hand in the conventional conductive roll using a direct current although it is necessary to keep stability of the paper attraction properties by means of DC charging for maintaining an electric field retention when a belt is charged electric characteristics are deteriorated because of contamination at the surface of the belt due to ink or processing solution mist and ink stain. Further uneven charging due to change of shape and generation of recesses occurs easily.

In contrast a conductive roll which enables charging of the transporting belt with high reliability with the aim of avoiding charge elimination has been provided. The conductive roll is simultaneously used for charging using both alternating current and direct current and an electric resistance is controlled by a single layer conductive roll. However the property of paper attraction of a paper such as a paper containing moisture varies easily with changes in the electric resistance due to environmental variations and while the transportation and the charging of the belt are controlled the residual charges on the belt vary with the location size and type of paper and a stable attraction force cannot be obtained.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording wherein a surface layer including a fluororesin and having a nip resistance of about 10to 10 at 23 C. and 55 RH is formed on a roll having an underlayer formed at the outer peripheral surface of a metal core material.

The roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording in the present invention hereinafter referred to as a charging roll of the present invention in some cases will be explained with reference to . As shown in a charging roll in the present invention wherein a surface layer including a fluororesin and having a nip resistance of about 10to 10 at 23 C. and 55 RH is formed on a roll having an underlayer formed at the outer peripheral surface of a metal core material . The content of the fluororesin in the surface layer is about 5 by mass or more and preferably 50 to 80 by mass.

Because the charging roll in the present invention has a two layer structure of the underlayer and the surface layer it is effective as a functional layer of a surface protective layer having not only the function of adjusting the electric resistance of the roll but it also functions to prevent dirt due to the adhesion of foreign matters on the surface of the belt to suppress a decrease in electric resistance due to discharging products to prevent dirt on a paper due to powder formed by abrasion to suppress mechanical wear at the foamed body part to prevent mechanical deformation to suppress deformation at a nip portion and the like.

Examples of the metal core material used are not specifically limited and include stainless steel SUS copper aluminum and the like.

The underlayer may be any of a foamed layer having a dense skin layer on the surface or a non foamed layer and is preferably a foamed layer for providing a uniform nip property. The underlayer preferably comprises one kind of rubber such as an ethylene propylene diene copolymer EPDM silicone rubber urethane rubber acrylonitrile butadiene rubber NBR epichlorohydrin rubber ECO and polyether urethane PU rubber or two or more kinds of rubber material components such as EPDM and silicone rubber and especially EPDM ECO and a PU rubber are preferable. The volume resistivity of the underlayer is generally 10 cm or more and a conductive agent can be included in the underlayer if necessary.

The thickness of the underlayer is preferably 1 to 30 mm and more preferably 2 to 6 mm. When the thickness is less than 1 mm the metal core material tends to be deflected and is easily deformed and there may be the case where it becomes difficult to keep a uniform nip and when the thickness exceeds 30 mm there may be the case where the amount of a belt nip increases so that the change of the belt speed and running of paper expansion and contraction in image quality and wrinkling of the paper may occur resulting in paper jamming.

The surface layer includes a fluororesin and has a nip resistance of about 10to 10 at 23 C. and 55 RH preferably about 10to 10 and more preferably about 10to 10 . When the nip resistance of the surface layer is less than 10 an excessive current flows during paper feed and a failure to attract the paper due to belt leakage occurs easily and when it exceeds 10 an amount of belt charge becomes large. The nip resistance is a value obtained by measuring an electric resistance when a load of 1 kg is applied and a voltage of 100V charged for 10 seconds is applied using a cylindrical electrode HR probe in HIGHRESTER IP manufactured by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co. Ltd. and the nip resistance of the surface layer is measured at the nip before a metal SUS or aluminum pipe having the same diameter is covered with a tube and the nip resistance of the underlayer described later is measured under a condition of an applied load of 500 g each end and an applied voltage of 100V before the tube covering in a similar manner.

In light of realizing a more stable charging behavior on the belt the nip resistance of the surface layer at 10 C. and 10 RH is preferably lower than the nip resistance of the underlayer rubber underlayer at 10 C. and 10 RH and the nip resistance of the surface layer at 28 C. and 85 RH is preferably higher than the nip resistance of the underlayer at 28 C. and 85 RH. Under the condition at 10 C. and 10 RH the apparent nip resistance can be made small such that an increase in substrate resistance is suppressed so that the resistance of the surface layer is lower than the resistance of underlayer and current at the nip portion allows to flow to the whole surface through the surface layer. On the other hand under the condition at 28 C. and 85 RH the drop in the substrate resistance due to decrease in the hygroscopicity and rubber elasticity can be suppressed by making the resistance of the surface layer higher than the resistance of the underlayer so that a more stable resistor body can be obtained.

Further the coefficient of static friction of the surface layer is preferably about 0.3 or less and the thickness is preferably about 30 to 500 m. The above described coefficient of static friction is more preferably about 0.25 or less and further preferably about 0.2 or less. When the above described coefficient of static friction exceeds 0.3 acceleration of wearing out of the belt surface slipping properties and change in the speed may occur a stable paper orientation cannot be easily achieved resulting in an increase in the adhesion properties of foreign matters and decrease in cleaning properties such as a blade or the like. The thickness is 30 to 500 m and further preferably 50 to 200 m. When the thickness is 30 m or less occurrence of unevenness attributed to an influence of a polished pattern and foam pattern of the underlayer generation of wrinkles recesses and the like attributed to deformation and reduction in the adhesion properties of the substrate attributed to reduction in contraction rate may occur. When the thickness exceeds 500 m the surface layer is not likely subject to the influence of the underlayer changes in belt paper speed due to a nonuniform nip of the roll with a belt scratches and wearing out on the surface or the like can easily occur and adhesion of foreign matters ink paper powder products due to electro discharging dust or the like may take place.

The coefficient of static friction of the surface layer can be obtained by using a measuring device for coefficient of static friction HEIDON manufactured by SHINTO KAGAKU under a condition of 25 C. placing a roll on which the underlayer is formed at the outer peripheral surface of the metal core material on the resin sheet constituting the surface layer tilting the resin sheet gradually and measuring tan tangent of the angle where the above described roll shaft begins to slide.

The surface layer includes a fluororesin. Because the charging roll of the present invention includes a fluororesin the present invention can provide an charging roll which decreases the adhesion of ink and has a stable resistance range to environmental changes a lower resistance range volume resistivity is 10 cm than that of the charging roll used in the ordinary method of the electrophotographic process volume resistivity is 10 cm . As a result deterioration due to electro discharging and direct current power voltage can be reduced and a high paper retention property on the belt high image quality high transfer property and high reliability can be achieved. The above described fluororesin is preferably at least one kind resin selected from a group consisting of a tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkoxylalkylvinylether resin an ethylenetetrafluoroethylene resin and a poly vinylidene fluoride resin.

The surface layer may contain conductive materials in addition to the fluororesin to adjust the resistance. Examples of the conductive materials include filler materials such as carbon black which is an electron conductivity conductive material as a conductive filler carbon nano tube graphite Al Ni and copper and composite oxides such as tin oxide zinc oxide potassium titanate tin oxide indium oxide and stibium oxide and examples of ion conductive materials include a surfactant based material such as ammonium salt sulfonate cationic nonionic anionic surfactants. These materials are preferably used so as to control the volume resistivity at 23 C. and 55 RH to 10to 10 cm.

The charging roll of the present invention having the configuration as described above has a surface resistivity of about 10 square or less more preferably 10 square or less at 23 C. and 55 RH and the volume resistivity of about 10to 10 cm more preferably about 10to 10 cm at 23 C. and 55 RH in light of stabilizing the resistance and reduction in the unevenness of charging under the condition of 10 C. and 110 RH.

In order to obtain the surface resistivity at 23 C. and 55 RH as shown in two metal rolls having 12 mm in diameter and 330 mm long made of SUS stainless steel are brought into contact with the surface of the above described charging roll with 0.2 mm thrust the metal rolls being apart from each other at a distance of 10 mm in the circumferential direction of the surface of the charging roll at a predetermined time after a voltage of 2 kV has been applied. A direct current voltage V of 1 kV is applied between the metal rolls current I at 10 seconds after the application of voltage is read and the surface resistivity R is obtained from the equation below. wherein L denotes the length of the charging roll cm and G denotes the distance between the two metal rolls cm .

The volume resistivity is calculated by cutting out a piece of the roll of 1 cm in height sandwiching the piece with metal plates applying DC 100v and performing a measurement of the resistance at 10 seconds after the application of the voltage.

The hardness of the charging roll in the present invention is preferably about 90 to 20 and more preferably about 60 to 30 . When hardness exceeds 90 the belt nip becomes smaller and the stable charge may not be obtained in the direction of the belt surface. When the hardness is less than 20 the area of the nip becomes larger and fluctuations in the belt speed may occur. The hardness referred hereto is the Asker C hardness and is a repulsion hardness at 500 g load.

Although the method of manufacturing the charging roll in the present invention is not specifically limited the surface layer is preferably formed by covering a roll having an underlayer of a tube shaped fluororesin composition formed at the outer peripheral surface of a metal core material. The charging roll of the present invention is preferably manufactured by the following method.

The charging roll of the present invention is produced in such a manner that the surface layer is preferably formed by expanding the conductive tube formed of a resin composition including a tetrafluoroethylene perfluoroalkoxylalkylvinylether resin a polytetrafluoroethylene resin a tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene copolymer resin an ethylenetetrafluoroethylene resin a poly vinylidene fluoride resin or polyhexatetrafluoroethylene resin by pressure feeding fluid in the inner peripheral surface of the expanded tube inserting a conductive roll having an underlayer formed at the outer periphery of a metal core material into the inner peripheral surface of the expanded conductive tube and contracting the conductive tube by stopping the pressure feeding of the fluid the first method .

The charging roll of the present invention is also produced in such a manner that the surface layer is preferably formed by inserting the conductive roll having an underlayer formed at the outer periphery of the metal core material into the conductive tube formed of a resin composition of a fluororesin cooling the conductive tube after it is cured by heating while vulcanizing and adhering the conductive tube to the underlayer the second method .

In the case that the underlayer is a foamed layer the charging roll of the present invention can be manufactured for example as follows. A foamed elastomer raw material is manufactured by adding a foaming agent a vulcanizing agent and the like to an unfoamed rubber raw material. In order to obtain a foamed elastomer having a hardness of 30 to 60 it is important to control the amount of the foaming agent and foaming condition. After the foamed elastomer raw material is kneaded by a kneader a Banbury mixer or the like it is extruded form an extruder and is wound around the outer peripheral surface of the metal core material which is sent to a crosshead. The metal core material wound with the foamed elastomer raw material is set in a mold and the elastic body material is heated and vulcanized. The rubber raw material foamed by heating is fixed to the metal core material and the foamed elastomer which becomes the underlayer is formed. Alternatively a method of forming the foamed elastomer by molding the elastic body material into a tube like form when the foamed elastomer raw material is extruded from an extruder and heating without winding the tube like form on the metal core material may be used. Alternatively the underlayer can be fixed to the outer peripheral surface of the metal core material by pressure feeding the metal core material into the center of the foamed elastomer. After this the surface of the underlayer is polished.

Separately a conductive rubber material in which additives such as carbon black and vulcanizing agents are added to a fluororesin is manufactured. Thereafter for example a tube which becomes the surface layer is manufactured by extruding the conductive rubber materials into a tube like form from an extruder having a crosshead which has a high productivity in a dry process.

In the first method the surface layer is formed in such a manner that a fluid is pressure fed to the inner peripheral surface of the obtained conductive tube or a metal shaft having a larger inner diameter is inserted into the conductive tube to expand the tube and the conductive roll having an underlayer formed at the outer peripheral surface of the metal core material is inserted into the inner peripheral surface of the expanded conductive tube and the conductive tube is contracted by stopping the pressure feeding of the fluid.

In the second method the outer peripheral surface of the underlayer is covered with the conductive tube by inserting the metal core material having the underlayer formed into the inner periphery of the obtained conductive tube and moving the metal core material having the underlayer at a fixed speed. Thereafter by curing by vulcanizing or vulcanize foaming the conductive tube by heating the conductive tube integrated with the metal core material in a vulcanizer under a pressurized vapor atmosphere then cooling the surface layer is formed and at the same time adhered to the surface of the underlayer or contracted or compressed onto the surface of the underlayer . The roll manufactured in this manner is taken out from the vulcanizer.

The method is finished by polishing the surface of the substrate roll manufactured in the above manner.

The inkjet recording apparatus of the present invention comprises an inkjet head unit having an inkjet head which ejects ink droplets onto a recording medium a transporting belt which transports the recording medium to the inkjet head unit and a charging roll to charge the surface of the transporting belt wherein the charging roll is the roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording of the present invention as describe above.

Hereinafter preferred embodiments of the inkjet recording apparatus of the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings.

As shown in an inkjet recording apparatus is equipped with an inkjet head unit which ejects ink droplets onto a recording paper recording medium P and the inkjet head unit is equipped with an inkjet head not shown which ejects ink droplets of four colors that is cyan C magenta M yellow Y and black K from nozzles corresponding to these colors respectively. The inkjet head is an elongated head having an effective printing region which is the same or wider than the width of the recording paper P and can eject ink droplets simultaneously onto the printing region in the lateral direction of the recording paper P. As methods of ejecting ink droplets from the nozzles of the inkjet head any known methods such as a method to pressurize an ink chamber with a piezoelectric element and a thermal method are applicable.

The inks are supplied to the inkjet head through pipes from ink tanks not shown located above the inkjet head unit and various known inks such as water based ink oil based ink and solvent based ink can be used.

A paper feeding tray is removably disposed in the bottom part of the inkjet recording apparatus the paper feeding tray is loaded with the recording papers P and a pick up roll abuts onto the uppermost recording paper P. The recording paper P is fed by the pick up roll one by one from the paper feeding tray to the downstream in the transporting direction fed to an endless transporting belt by transporting rolls and arranged sequentially along a transporting path and transported to the inkjet head unit by the transporting belt .

The transporting belt is trained over driving roll and driven rolls and . The driven roll is grounded.

The transporting belt is made of a rubber such as urethane and a resin such as PET ETFE polyimide for example and the volume resistance is 10 cm or higher.

The charging roll to which a power source device is connected which is the charging roll of the present invention is arranged at the upstream side of the position where the recording paper P is brought into contact with the transporting belt . The charging roll is driven by the driven roll such that the transporting belt is sandwiched between the rolls and and the roll is movable between a pressing position where the charging roll presses against the transporting belt and a separating position where the charging roll is separated from the transporting belt . In the pressing position the charging roll discharges to the transporting belt and can impart electric charges because an electric potential difference is generated between the charging roll and the grounded driven roll . Although the case in which the position where the charging roll is arranged at the upstream of the position where the recording paper P is brought into contact with the transporting belt is explained it is not limited to this and the charging roll may be arranged at a position where the roll is not subject to the influence of dirt such as a paper dust and a ink mist in the apparatus.

The power source device is formed of a waveform generator which generates a known and arbitrary voltage waveform and an amplifier.

A plurality of discharge roll pairs which constitutes a discharge path for the recording paper P is installed at the downstream side of the inkjet head unit and a discharge tray is installed at the end of the discharge path formed of discharge roll pair .

As shown in each part of the inkjet recording apparatus is controlled by a control part composed of a CPU ROM and RAM and the control part controls the entire inkjet recording apparatus including the inkjet head unit the charging roll and a plurality of motors which drive various rolls.

Next the printing operation of the inkjet recording apparatus will be explained. When the control part receives a command for a printing job the recording paper P is fed from the paper feeding tray by driving the pick up roll all transporting rolls and the transporting belt . A head control part not shown which performs a dummy jetting initializes the performance of the nozzles in the inkjet head unit and controls the ejection of ink droplets by the inkjet head unit applies a driving voltage to the piezoelectric elements of the nozzles on a timely basis corresponding to image signals.

Accordingly the recording paper P being transported by the transporting belt is subjected to printing and the printing step will be described hereinafter in detail. The printed recording paper P is transported to the discharge tray by the transporting belt and the discharge roll pairs .

Here the printing step is explained. When the control part receives printing job signals the charging roll is turned on and a voltage which varies with the above described superposed waveform from the power source device is applied to the charging roll . When the charging roll discharges the electric charges to the transporting belt the residual charges are averaged in the charged areas on the surface of the transporting belt by the voltage varying with a high frequency voltage waveform of the superposed waveform whereas only an charged pattern corresponding to a frequency of a low frequency voltage waveform appears on the surface of the belt and as shown in the surface of the transporting belt is charged with a positive charge and a negative charge alternatively. The recording paper P is stably attracted electrostatically onto the surface of the transporting belt due to the stress Maxwell s stress by nonuniform electric field generated by the positive charges and negative charges. Since the surface of the transporting belt is charged with a positive charge and a negative charge alternatively the effect of the electric field to the ejection of the ink droplets from the surface of the transporting belt to the inkjet head unit is small and because the recording paper P is not directly charged the effect of an attraction force attributed to the characteristics of the recording paper such as electric resistance and thickness is small.

Accordingly the recording paper P which is fed to the transporting belt is electrostatically attracted to the transporting belt and passes through the printing region of the inkjet head unit . At this time the control part actuates the inkjet head unit and performs printing on the recording paper P. Then the recording paper P is discharged to the discharge tray by the discharge roll pairs . A part of the transporting belt where the recording paper P is attracted rotationally moves again to the pressing part of the charging roll by the driving roll and the driven rolls and and at the same time that the residual charges on the transporting belt are averaged by the voltage varying with the superposed waveform applied on the charging roll the surface of the transporting belt is again charged with a positive charge and a negative charge alternatively corresponding to the frequency of the low frequency voltage waveform and a stable attraction force is maintained.

Hereinafter the present invention is explained in detail with reference to examples but the present invention is not limited to these examples.

1 part by mass of sulfur 200 mesh manufactured by Tsurumi Chemical Industrial Co. Ltd. as a vulcanizing agent 1.5 parts by mass of sulfur vulcanization accelerator trade name Nocceler M manufactured by Ouchi Shinko Kagaku Kogyo Co. Ltd. 6 parts by mass of benzenesulfonylhydrazide as a foaming agent 6 parts by mass of Ketjen Black EC manufactured by Lion Akzo Co. Ltd. and 24 parts by mass of Asahi Thermal Black FT manufactured by Asahi Carbon Co. Ltd. are added to 100 parts by mass of non foamed EPDM trade name EP33 manufactured by JSR the mixture is kneaded by a kneader and Banbury mixer and the rubber composition is extruded from an extruder in a tube like form. Further a foamed product in a tube like form is obtained by performing foaming and vulcanization at 160 C. for 30 minutes.

A metal SUS stainless steel shaft having 8 mm in diameter is inserted into the foamed product in the tube like form and fabricated by grinding to 18.7 mm in diameter to obtain a foamed roll having an underlayer foamed product .

A conductive PFA tube conductive tube manufactured by Gunze Limited 100 m in thickness is expanded by pressure feeding air into the inner peripheral surface thereof the foamed roll is inserted into the inner peripheral surface of the expanded tube and contracting the conductive PFA tube is contracted at 120 C. for 10 minutes by stopping the pressure feeding of the air so that a roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording having a surface layer conductive PFA tube is obtained.

The surface resistivity at 23 C. and 55 RH the volume resistivity and the hardness of the obtained charging roll are measured by the above described method.

The nip resistance the coefficient of static friction and the thickness at 23 C. and 55 RH at 10 C. and 10 RH and at 28 C. and 85 RH respectively of the surface layer are measured.

The nip resistance and the thickness at 23 C. and at 55 RH 10 C. and at 10 RH and 28 C. and 85 RH respectively of the underlayer are measured. The results are shown in Table 1.

The obtained charging roll is used as the charging roll in the inkjet recording apparatus having a structure similar to that of the apparatus as shown in . A polyimide belt volume resistivity at 23 C. and 55 RH 10 cm surface resistance 10 square is used as a transporting belt in the inkjet recording apparatus. Under the conditions of 23 C. and 55 RH 10 C. and 10 RH and 28 C. and 85 RH respectively a direct current voltage of 2 kV is applied to the charging roll and using an ink IC8CL33 manufactured by EPSON as an ink an image is recorded by the inkjet recording apparatus. The ink stain the property of paper attraction and the charging characteristic on the charging roll are evaluated. As a result under each condition an ink stain is not generated the ink is transferred to the surface of the belt on SCOTCH clear tape manufactured by 3M and the density of the ink is less than 0.15 the property of paper attraction is good a paper on the belt does not peel off even after the ink printing and the electrifying characteristic DC 1.5 kV is applied onto the charging roll is good the electric potential on the surface of the belt is DC 950V .

A roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording is manufactured in the same manner as Example 1 except that the added amount of Ketjen Black EC manufactured by LION AKZO Co. Ltd. used to manufacture the foamed product having a tube like form in Example 1 is changed to 7 parts by mass and the added amount of Asahi Thermal Black FT manufactured by Asahi Carbon Co. Ltd. used to manufacture the foamed product having a tube like form in Example 1 is changed to 28 parts by mass. The inkjet recording apparatus is used in the same manner as in Example 1 and the ink stain the property of paper attraction and the charging characteristic on the charging roll are evaluated. As a result under each condition an ink stain is not generated the ink is transferred to the surface of the belt on Scotch clear tape manufactured by 3M and the density of the ink is 0.13 the property of paper attraction is good a paper on the belt does not peel off even after the ink printing and the charging characteristic is good the electric potential on the surface of the belt is DC 930V .

A roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording is manufactured in the same manner as in Example 1 except that 100 parts by mass of EPDM used to manufacture the foamed product having a tube like form in Example 1 is changed to 100 parts by mass of an epichlorohydrin rubber trade name Epichlomer C manufactured by Daiso Co. Ltd. and 6 parts by mass of Ketjen Black EC manufactured by LION AKZO Co. Ltd. and 24 parts by mass of Asahi Thermal Black FT manufactured by Asahi Carbon Co. Ltd. are changed to 1 part by mass of triethylbenzylammonium salt. The inkjet recording apparatus is used in the same manner as in Example 1 and the ink stain the property of paper attraction and the electrifying characteristic on the charging roll are evaluated. As a result under each condition an ink stain is not generated the ink is transferred to the surface of the belt onto SCOTCH clear tape manufactured by 3M and the density of the ink is 0.14 the property of paper attraction is good a paper on the belt does not peel off even after the ink printing and the charging characteristic is good the electric potential on the surface of the belt is DC 980V .

A roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording is manufactured in the same manner as in Example 1 except that the thickness of the conductive PFA tube conductive tube manufactured by Gunze Limited used in Example 1 is changed from 100 m to 25 m. The inkjet recording apparatus is used in the same manner as in Example 1 and the ink stain the property of paper attraction and the electrifying characteristic on the charging roll are evaluated. As a result under each condition an ink stain is generated the ink is transferred to the surface of the belt on Scotch clear tape manufactured by 3M and the density of the ink is 0.25 the property of paper attraction is poor a paper on the belt peels off even after the ink printing and the charging characteristic is poor the electric potential on the surface of the belt is DC 340V .

A roll for charging a belt for inkjet recording is manufactured in the same manner as Example 1 except that the thickness of the conductive PFA tube conductive tube manufactured by Gunze Limited used in Example 1 is changed from 100 m to 550 m. The inkjet recording apparatus is used in the same manner as in Example 1 and the ink stain the property of paper attraction and the electrifying characteristic on the charging roll are evaluated. As a result under each condition an ink stain is generated the ink is transferred to the surface of the belt on SCOTCH clear tape manufactured by 3M and the density of the ink is 0.16 the property of paper attraction is poor a paper on the belt peels off even after the ink printing and the charging characteristic is poor the electric potential on the surface of the belt is DC 550V .

