---

title: Mobile security monitoring method and system and an alarm security node in the system
abstract: A mobile security monitoring method and system are provided. An alarm security node communicates with an intelligent security that is activated by a breach in a security zone. This breach starts a video monitoring/recording sequence that is sent out via broadband link to an alarm center. The alarm center forwards this alarm information to a user as SMS/MMS information through a mobile network. The user can view and evaluate what is going on at the security zone and can decide what action to initiate. This minimizes false alarm generation and thus cuts down the costs of following upon false alarm(s) by an alarm security provider. For security and cost reasons, the intelligent security system may be the only client of the server-side alarm center. Existing IT infrastructure at the security zone can be used such as W-LAN, broadband, GPRS, and mobile devices. A mobile phone can be used for activation and deactivation of intelligent security system based on a manual push of a button on the user device. The activation/deactivation may depend on mobile's location as determined by GPS or other mobile positioning system based on mobile network infrastructures that use a spatial-based alarm trigger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08081070&OS=08081070&RS=08081070
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 08081070
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20060616
---
This application is the U.S. national phase of International Application No. PCT SE2006 05023 filed 16 Jun. 2006 which designated the U.S. and claims priority to Sweden Application No. 0502017 7 filed 12 Sep. 2005 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The technology described in this application relates in general to the area of security in the field of mobile communication and in particular to a mobile security monitoring method and system supporting intelligent security alarming with mobile positioning. The technology described in this application further relates to an alarm security node included in such a system.

Today s existing alarm systems are inflexible and provide limited interaction between the user and an alarm security provider to handle an alarm situation. For example a typical alarm system is shown in U.S. Ser. No. 10 698 974 A wherein an alarm system includes a control device regulating and receiving feedback from various conventional fixed sensors. The control device further reports events via a dispatch mechanism to a user. The user via a web interface regulates alarm parameters in a dispatch configuration system in the alarm system.

The control device interfaces with the dispatch configuration system and other components of alarm system via telephone network lines. Further the user via a control device panel actively configures the dispatch mechanism in order to setup a custom alarm dispatch requirement and instructions.

Thus existing alarm systems use a fixed architecture of alarm devices directly controlled by the user to configurate and regulate the alarm devices with telephone network communication. Said existing systems work well when set up but are not easy to adapt to a new monitoring set up. Further it puts high demands on the end user to comprehend and configure the alarm system in non real time optimization and with no possibility to induce feedback parameters to improve the protection of security zone in the real time operation.

Therefore there is a need for versatile a modern mobile telecommunication based low latency decision time a complete alarm security system. Specifically there is a need for a security monitoring system based on today s modern mobile telecommunications with ability to use future technological developments i.e. mobile networks using mobile internet. In particular there is a need to use a mobile positioning technology and or a GPS functionality to validate the user physical location with respect to the security zone. It is further desirable to introduce a third entity i.e. an alarm security provider providing complete security monitoring solution. It is also further desirable to have a flexible solution in the form of an intelligent security system communicating with an alarm center in a variety of modern modes i.e. broadband GPRS WLAN technologies among others.

On the implementation scale it is desirable to have a changeable solution for the placement of plurality detecting devices in the security monitoring systems which are wirelessly connected within the intelligent security system. It is further desired that the user the intelligent security system and the alarm center in a control feedback manner improving the latency period flexibility and minimizing overall cost level of maintaining such a system.

The technology described in this application handles the disadvantages of the prior art in detail below but in general the technology described in this application provides an improved all encompassing security monitoring method and system utilizing mobile telecommunication technology. A mobile security monitoring system is developed where the means and method are constructed to monitor a security zone along with user s physical location by utilizing a combination of the intelligent security system and the alarm center control using a mobile telecommunication and a mobile network based communication assisted by a mobile positioning system.

In accordance with one non limiting example embodiment the intelligent security system comprises a logic control device plurality of detecting devices and a recording video device for whose output information and control are regulated by an alarm center. The placement of the diverse devices is arranged in a wireless network in the security zone making their distribution fixture free. This affords the ease in placement possibilities of such devices with changing security alarm setup needs in current different security zone.

In another non limiting example embodiment the alarm center tracks a user device s physical location with respect to the security zone using the mobile positioning system and or the GPS functionality. In yet another embodiment at least one of said detecting devices are activated by change in a physical location of the user device as the user exits enters the security zone. One of the benefits here for the user will be that the intelligent security system can be set on active or passive state as user enters or leaves the security zone without manual activation of the mobile security monitoring system.

In another non limiting example embodiment in case of activation of an alarm condition both the intelligent security system and the alarm center are involved in monitoring and verifying alarm information with feedback from the user. The alarm information in the form of a text and or video alarm information are sent to the user device for feedback on the authenticity of the alarm condition. The total cost of maintaining the mobile security alarm system goes down when both the alarm center and the user provide feedback to the alarm condition generated by the intelligent security system.

This communication is done in real time using mobile telecommunication system along with broadband GPRS WLAN and other mobile positioning and mobile communication schemes. The inclusion of the alarm center in this security scheme is crucial to provide a complete and efficient security solution to the user. The use of mobile positioning system and mobile communication among others provides real time assessment and feedback to confirm and take reactive measures to the alarm condition.

The specification detailed hence forth has the objective to provide a straight forward scheme in implementation of different non limiting example embodiments. More specifically a mobile security monitoring method system and alarm security node aspects are not only suited for a residential alarm system use but also for commercial alarm systems.

Hence in accordance with the various aspects and with reference to the exemplary embodiments the technology described in this application provides an improved mobile security monitoring arrangement. For example the technology described in this application provides a mobile security monitoring system in which an alarm security provider with feedback from a user device and an intelligent security system controls and monitors a security zone utilizing a mobile network . The user and the user device are defined through out this application as synonymous to each other i.e. for the sake of clarity. Where ever differences arise in the discussion the user and user device will be discussed with clarity. Further the user device is a mobile handheld device to be used with the present mobile telecommunication networks.

The mobile security monitoring system in comprises the intelligent security system which is monitoring the security zone of said user . The intelligent security system further comprises a monitoring device for monitoring a plurality of detecting devices in said security zone . The monitoring device functions as a hardware interface device for the detecting devices .

The monitoring device is used to detect whether the circuit is in open or close state for the detecting devices . In the typical state the circuit is closed for non activity. In the monitoring device the circuit state is normally set to the normal close state to signify a deactivate state. One circuit loop corresponds to one detecting device function. The monitoring device may also have an output relay i.e. for turn on and off an alarm siren . In general the monitoring device module using the detecting devices detects and alerts an alarm situation and assists in generating an alarm condition to be sent to an alarm center . Said alarm condition contains detecting and alerting parameters of the detecting devices . Such a detecting device can be an infrared detector for motion detection. Further said detecting devices for alerting can comprise said alarm siren and or a light based alert device not shown in . Further an emergency button can be provided for the user to alert the alarm center . Any device fulfilling the functionality detecting a defined security zone above can be used to implement the monitoring device .

It is further envisaged that such detecting devices can be influenced of temperature change fire detection and such detecting devices yet unknown. In another aspect the detecting devices are wireless radio frequency based sensors making their placement simple and cost effective.

In another embodiment the detecting devices can be grouped in active and passive sensors activated by change in said physical location of said user device in respect to said security zone protected by said intelligent security system ascertained by said user device s mobile positioning functionality. This will be further described in detail below.

Further a video device is included in the intelligent security system for the purpose of recording the alarm condition. The video device can be a web based camera a video camera or similar. Further a logic control device is included for reporting said alarm condition and alarm information to an alarm center at the alarm security provider .

The logic control device is based on a Java Standard Edition J2SE protocol mainly for desktop applications. The logic control device can use a Java Communication Application Programming Interface JavaComm API protocol to communicate with said monitoring device for controlling hardware input output behaviour. Further also a Java Media Framework Application Programming Interface JMF API is used for video sequence capture via the video device and an audio sequence recording via a soundcard not shown in the . The logic control device further uses an Embedded Personal computer PC for conveying said alarm conditions and the alarm information using a Web Service WS over broadband and alternative route via GPRS. For the Java background services WS are used.

The intelligent security system utilizes the WS in a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP protocols with a WS security based on a Public Key Infrastructure PKI digital signature such as Extended Markup Language XML element such as XML Digital Signatures XMLDSig and encryption information. A Secure Socket Layer SSL is used as an alternative to the WS based security. For the SSL client certificates are used for the identification purposes. The intelligent security system uses a digital certificate with the PKI standard so that the alarm security provider can verify the user certificates.

Further the intelligent security system has no server role due to security and cost reason. All information that the alarm center wants to provide to the intelligent security system is given on the return message from a heartbeat message sent by the intelligent security system .

All communication from the logic control device of the intelligent security system towards the alarm center in the alarm security provider uses the SOAP protocol over an internet HTTP protocol. An output means is provided for sending said alarm condition and said alarm information to the alarm center . A communication medium device comprising a broadband a ground based telephony GPRS a WLAN a high speed wireless system or a combination thereof is provided for transmitting said alarm condition and said alarm information.

The alarm center is integral part of the alarm security provider . Further the alarm center comprises an alarm application server . The alarm center is arranged to receive alarm condition and alarm information via the communication medium device from said intelligent security system .

The alarm application server is based on the Java Enterprise Edition J2EE mainly for server side applications in a cluster formation. In particular the J2EE can be based on the protocol J2EE 1.4 with Java XML Remote Procedure Call JAX RPC or a JAX WS API for handling WS configuration. The alarm center acting as a value added service provider VASP and is using a web technology for getting information on all ongoing alarm conditions and alarm information. The alarm center can be divided in different district area covering various security zones. When the alarm center operator logs in to the alarm application server they can select a distinct district area with a pool of security guard s in said district area for flexible security operations. When the alarm condition occurs the alarm center operator can use a Java applet to push alarm notification based on the alarm condition and alarm information and refreshes the web content using the web technology. The java applet utilizes a polling thread in the background towards the alarm application server . This results in the physical location of the alarm center operator is flexible and operators can be placed in diverse locations. In a further embodiment the alarm center operator communicates with a security guard in field i.e. using an IP multimedia sub system IMS push to talk telecommunication technology.

The alarm center further has also an automatic pilot function in case the alarm center operator is not available. The automatic pilot function can forward i.e. the alarm condition and or alarm information to a closest security guard in the district are with input from a mobile positioning system and or user device GPS functionality using a mobile network . The security guard will receive a multi media system MMS message comprising the alarm condition and information. The alarm center operator Graphic User Interface GUI application management is mainly based on Java applet for graphical representative of the alarm situations and the security guards in the different physical locations on the map.

The mobile network comprises a service network and a GPRS Core network . The service network further comprises a mobile WS gateway i.e. a ParlayX WS gateway the mobile positioning system and a messaging center . The messaging center further comprises a short messaging system SMS i.e. a text information system and multi media system MMS i.e. a video messaging system not shown in . The alarm center couples to the user device via this mobile network . For purposes related to implementation a mobile network is not limited only to the systems described above.

The user device is based on Java Micro Edition J2ME for mobile terminals with IP connections over GPRS mobile telephony. The J2ME utilizes a SSL encryption and a Public Key Infrastructure PKI identification schemes for communication with the alarm center coupled via the mobile network . The user device is capable of receiving said SMS and MMS messages from the alarm application server coupled via the mobile network .

In a process flow diagram of a mobile security monitoring method is shown highlighting different method steps. A monitoring step comprises the functionality of said logic device plurality of said monitoring and detecting devices and said video device . Further the monitoring step comprises the detecting step for detecting the alarm condition in said intelligent security system . The detecting means comprises variety of detecting devices in i.e. movement sensors temperature sensors fire safety sensors window and door safety sensors etc which monitor and detect any breach or compromise of the security zone protected by the intelligent security system .

The detecting step is grouped in passive and active detecting i.e. depending on physical location of the user device with respect to the security zone protected by the intelligent security system . This entails that certain detecting sensor types such as fire alarm water leakage sensor etc are always in active state whether the user is in the security zone or not. The other sensors e.g. a burglar alarm is activated once the user is outside the security zone of the intelligent security system . The functionality of the detecting step can be tailored to suit the user needs and thus a variety of functionality can be derived. Further a conveying step conveys the alarm condition from intelligent security system to said alarm center via said communication medium device through output means port .

Further the step of feedback means from the alarm center via said communication medium device is incorporated in the monitoring step . This provides an interactive communication between the intelligent security system and the alarm center . In step recording using recording means of said alarm information is provided i.e. video device . Further in step reacting functionality exists in intelligent security system to fulfil requests by the said alarm center via said communication medium device . The alarm center can thus initiate and instruct the intelligent security system to implement certain defensive and or reactive measures to resolve and take action against the alarm condition.

In an alternate solution the alarm center is aware of the physical location of the user device with respect to the security zone . In step informing of the physical location of the user device via the mobile positioning system and or the GPS functionality to the alarm center is performed. Further the mobile positioning system can be an assisted global positioning system A GPS . Whilst during the use of GPS functionality the user device communicates with alarm center via the GPRS Core network .

In step the intelligent security system is contacting said alarm center via a communication medium device for the purpose of acquiring present status of said user device with respect to the security zone . This can be done via mobile positioning system and or the GPS functionality. These steps and of confirming the physical location of the user with respect to the security zone assist the alarm center to instruct and provide information to the intelligent security system to initiate appropriate security measures.

Once an alarm situation has been generated i.e. said alarm condition it is forwarded to the alarm center . Further the physical location of the user has been localized by the alarm center . The alarm center after analyzing the above gathered information starts counter measures to react to the alarm situation. In step activating measures in said intelligent security system to respond to an alarm condition are provided. In an alternate aspect this can result in that the video device can start recording in the security zone protected by the intelligent security system . Measures are provided within the working of the intelligent security system where the alarm center can trigger and initiate this activation step as well as the intelligent security system can initiate activation protocol without feedback from the alarm center if required.

The recorded information of the alarm condition can together comprise the alarm information which is forwarded by the intelligent security system to the alarm center through the output means port via the communication medium device in step .

The alarm center in step informs said user device of said alarm information via said mobile network . This is done to allow the user to access the alarm information for the severity of the alarm situation. Further the alarm center prompts step said user to provide feedback on the alarm information to said alarm center via the mobile network . In step the alarm center operates and takes action on said alarm information in conjunction with the feedback provided by the user .

Here an exemplary embodiment is presented with user A and user B who are presently situated within the security zone protected by the intelligent security system . Both the users being within the security zone results in that the intelligent security system is in a deactivated state with only passive detecting devices working in the background.

The user A leaves the security zone with the user device which has the J2ME application with the GPS. Also another implementation is to use A GPS with a spatial trigger. The user device A notifies the alarm center via e.g. the GPRS connection via the mobile network whilst exiting the security zone . The user device s said J2ME client application is continuously controlling the GPS position with respect to the security zone in the background to see if user A is leaving the security zone or not. The alarm center will not activate i.e. the burglar alarm functionality within the intelligent security system as the user B s device is still registered inside the security zone . Alternatively user A can manually activate the burglar alarm via the J2ME client application on user device using a J2ME midlet GUI as an option.

In an alternate embodiment it is possible to initiate the intelligent security system into active state even if e.g. user B uses a non GPS enabled user device. The user B can do this using the user device s J2ME client that uses GPRS. In another aspect an automatic activation of intelligent security system is possible using the mobile positioning system with the spatial trigger function. Thus the mobile positioning system notifies the alarm application server that e.g. user B is outside the security zone . Since none of the users is inside the security zone the alarm center can initiate active state in the intelligent security system . If someone is still inside the security zone during burglar alarm activation i.e. detected via the passive IR device the intelligent security system will send reject message towards the alarm center . A SMS will be sent to the last user device that leaves the security zone with the message i.e. the burglar alarm can not be activated.

The intelligent security system sends a heartbeat over the SOAP protocol on every other minute i.e. a heartbeat time parameter over JAX RPC WS towards the alarm center . The alarm center returns a message indicating if the burglar alarm is set to active state or not. In a situation the communication medium device is temporarily down there are provisions to manually activate and deactivate the intelligent security system by the user as well as the alarm security provider personnel.

A security breach by e.g. a non user in the security zone results in that the IR detector detects e.g. a human entity within the security zone and it opens the normally closed alarm circuit loop to notify to the monitoring device module . The logic control device is pulling the input status and notice that IR detector circuit loop is open. The logic control device sets the alarm status to active state. Further logic control device can start the video device to record the incident and or push the alarm condition to alarm center . The alarm information is sent as the SOAP message to the alarm center via the communication medium device . Further said IR detector notifies the exit of the non user from the physical security zone to the monitoring device module where this alarm information is passed on to the alarm center . The alarm application server converts this alarm information i.e. video clip into smaller clips for MMS usage. It further sends alarm information in MMS form via a ParlayX SOAP protocol through a mobile network to the user device .

The user at this point opens the J2ME application on the user device whereas following option maybe presented as a feedback option back to the alarm center a option to send an alarm security provider security guard to the security zone b further when the user presses the J2ME GUI bottom on the user device feedback message is generated that is send over e.g. the GPRS towards the alarm center to confirm that the user has been informed c another alternative is that the user can also press on another J2ME GUI button on the user device to choose to not send any alarm security provider security guard if user considers it to be a false alarm situation.

Further when the user on returning to the security zone the alarm center will get notification either from the J2ME application with the GPS receiver or via the spatial trigger from the mobile positioning system . When the intelligent security system initiates the heartbeat i.e. every second minute over the SOAP protocol towards the alarm center via the communication medium device then the alarm center returns deactivation message to the intelligent security system .

Whilst the user is present inside the security zone of the intelligent security system certain detecting devices are by passed e.g. the IR detector within the security zone . Only the passive IR detector is by passed so the user can move around the security zone without setting of the alarm condition. Such functions can be pre programmed or manually controlled i.e. via the J2ME application on the user device i.e. by sending message to the alarm center . The alarm center will forward this order to intelligent security center during the heartbeat message via the communication medium device .

An alarm security node in in comprises the alarm security provider a VASP and its functionality with other sub systems of the mobile security monitoring system in . The alarm security node has a first input output I O means for accessing e.g. alarm condition and alarm information from the intelligent security system via a communication medium device . The first I O means can receive and convey diverse information from to the intelligent security system respectively. Further the alarm security node has a second I O means for outputting said alarm information to said user device coupled through a mobile network . This alarm information is forwarded in the SMS MMS message form to the user . Further the alarm center using said second I O means has provisions to get information regarding physical location of the user device with respect to the security zone . Further an alarm feedback means is provided for getting feedback on said alarm information from said user device to the alarm center through said second I O means and coupled via the mobile network . The alarm center is further provided with an alarm evaluation means for processing said alarm condition and said alarm information from said intelligent security system in light of said feedback from said user utilizing said first I O means and said second I O means respectively.

In process flow for the alarm security node is provided. In step provisions are provided for alarm security node to a get input i.e. the alarm condition and the alarm information from the intelligent security system step and convey feedback information and command sequences to said intelligent security system i.e. step .

In step the alarm center forwards this alarm information to user device via messaging center i.e. step . Further the alarm center acquires the physical location information of the user device via the mobile positioning system and or using the GPS functionality via the GPRS Core network i.e. step .

In step the alarm center has the feedback input from the user on possible action on the alarm information. This feedback is provided via the mobile network . With the alarm information from the intelligent security system and feedback from the user the alarm center has enough information to evaluate and initiate a subsequent action to resolve the alarm situation and or condition i.e. step .

In another embodiment when the user is situated outside the security zone there are provisions by the alarm security provider as a part of the user subscription to provide a personal emergency security. In the user device J2ME application exists an emergency button. During an emergency situation e.g. press of said emergency button on the user device the J2ME application activates an emergency message with the GPS and or the mobile positioning system information including a real time audio and video capture. The alarm center uses said ParlayX call control for setup a call for false alarm conformation via Dual Tone Modulating Frequency DTMF . Once authentication feedback is provided and severity of the situation confirmed by the alarm center the security guard and or a law enforcement agency can be directed to that physical location.

