---

title: Footwear with knit upper and method of manufacturing the footwear
abstract: An article of footwear with a knit upper and a method of manufacturing the footwear are disclosed. The upper is formed through a knitting process to include a plurality of sections formed of different yarns and knits to provide the sections with different physical properties. In portions of the upper where sections formed of different yarns are in adjacent wales, a tuck stitch is utilized to join the sections. The method utilizes a circular knitting machine having multiple feeds that work together to knit the upper into a unitary, seamless structure. The multiple feeds, each of which provide multiple types of yarns, produce the sections to have varying physical properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07131296&OS=07131296&RS=07131296
owner: Nike, Inc.
number: 07131296
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060117
---
This U.S. patent application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. Pat. No. 6 986 269 which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Dec. 30 2004 assigned Ser. No. 11 024 480 and entitled Footwear With Knit Upper And Method Of Manufacturing The Footwear. U.S. Pat. No. 6 986 269 is in turn a divisional application of and claimed priority to U.S. Pat. No. 6 931 762 which was filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Dec. 18 2002 assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 323 608 and entitled Footwear With Knit Upper And Method Of Manufacturing The Footwear. Both U.S. Patents are incorporated herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates to footwear and the manufacture of footwear. The invention concerns more particularly a footwear upper formed through a textile manufacturing process to have areas with different physical properties.

Conventional articles of athletic footwear generally include two primary elements an upper and a sole structure. The upper is attached to the sole structure and forms a void on the interior of the footwear for securely and comfortably receiving a foot. The sole structure attenuates ground reaction forces and absorbs energy as the footwear contacts the ground and often incorporates multiple layers that are conventionally referred to as a midsole and an outsole. The midsole forms the middle layer of the sole and serves a variety of purposes that include controlling potentially harmful foot motions such as over pronation shielding the foot from excessive ground reaction forces and beneficially utilizing such ground reaction forces for more efficient toe off. The outsole forms the ground contacting element of footwear and is usually fashioned from a durable wear resistant material that includes texturing to improve traction. The sole structure may also include an insole which is a thin cushioning member located within the upper and adjacent to a sole of the foot to enhance footwear comfort.

The upper of most conventional articles of footwear is generally formed from multiple material elements that are stitched and adhesively bonded together to form a comfortable structure for receiving the foot. Conventional athletic footwear may include for example an exterior formed of leather and polymer textile materials that are resistant to abrasion and provide the footwear with a particular aesthetic. Foam materials may be located on the interior of the upper to enhance the comfort of the upper and moisture wicking textiles may be positioned adjacent the foot to limit the perspiration within the upper.

In a departure from the conventional upper described above NIKE Inc. of Beaverton Oreg. United States manufactures athletic footwear with a knit upper under the PRESTO trademark. The knit upper includes a plurality of material elements that are formed through a knitting process. In manufacturing the upper the material elements are cut from a larger element and sewn together along their respective edges to form a generally hollow structure for receiving a foot. The upper therefore includes a plurality of separately formed knit sections stitched together to form seams between the various sections.

Based upon the discussion above the uppers for athletic footwear are generally constructed of numerous materials or elements. In manufacturing the uppers considerable time and labor is expended in cutting the various elements to have a proper shape and size and stitching or adhesively bonding the elements to each other. Consequently these footwear manufacturing techniques are not only time and labor intensive but also result in an undesirable amount of waste materials resulting from the trimming of the materials to make the elements.

A unitary upper formed through a knitting process is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 147 197 to Glidden. The upper is knitted to have a sock like structure in which areas subjected to greater wear and in which a lower degree of elasticity is desired are more densely fabricated to provide heavier weight and less extensibility than in other portions. This may be accomplished for example by changing the type of stitch. Other areas such as the ankle portion may be formed to have a ribbed construction to provide softness and elasticity.

The present invention is an article of footwear having a sole structure and an upper. The sole structure provides a ground contacting surface and the upper is structured to receive a foot of a wearer. The upper is attached to the sole structure and has a first section and a second section formed of knit materials. The first section is formed of a first yarn with a first physical property and the second section is formed of a second yarn with a second physical property. The first physical property is different than the second physical property. The first and second sections are connected by tuck stitches that join the first section and the second section in a seamless manner.

Other methods of joining the first section and the second section may form tails or ends of yarns that are exposed and may cause the area between the first and second sections to unravel. By utilizing a tuck stitch however tails are not formed and the first and second sections are joined seamlessly.

A method of manufacturing an upper that is similar to the upper described above may be performed through three general steps. First a first section of the upper is knitted from a first yarn having a first physical property. Second a second section of the upper is knitted from a second yarn having a second physical property with the first physical property being different than the second physical property. Furthermore tuck stitches are knitted between the first section and the second section to join the first section with the second section. In order to perform the steps described above a narrow tube circular knitting machine may be utilized.

The advantages and features of novelty characterizing the present invention are pointed out with particularity in the appended claims. To gain an improved understanding of the advantages and features of novelty however reference may be made to the following descriptive matter and accompanying drawings that describe and illustrate various embodiments and concepts related to the invention.

The following discussion and accompanying figures disclose an article of footwear and a method of manufacturing footwear in accordance with the present invention. Footwear includes an upper that is formed as a unitary knit structure with various sections having different physical properties. The various sections are joined in a generally seamless manner and may exhibit different degrees of strength abrasion resistance stretch support stiffness recovery fit and form for example. In joining the various sections tuck stitches are utilized to seamlessly connect sections between wales.

An exploded view of footwear is depicted in and includes a sole structure and an upper that is attached to sole structure through adhesive bonding or stitching for example. Sole structure provides a durable ground contacting surface and attenuates ground reaction forces and absorbs energy as footwear contacts the ground. The primary elements of sole structure are an insole a midsole and an outsole . Insole is a thin cushioning member located within upper and adjacent to a sole of the foot to enhance footwear comfort. Midsole forms the middle layer of sole structure and may be structured to serve a variety of purposes that include controlling potentially harmful foot motions such as over pronation shielding the foot from excessive ground reaction forces and beneficially utilizing such ground reaction forces for more efficient toe off. Outsole forms the ground contacting element of footwear and may be fashioned from a durable wear resistant material that includes texturing to improve traction. Suitable materials for midsole include ethylvinylacetate and polyurethane foam and may include additional components such as a fluid filled bladder. Outsole may be formed from carbon black rubber compound for example.

Sole structure also includes a toe support a heel support and a securing system . Toe support extends upward from a fore portion of midsole and is configured to extend around fore portions of the toes to limit forward movement of the foot. Similarly heel support extends upward from a rear portion of midsole and is configured to extend around the heel to limit rearward movement of the foot. A portion of heel support also extends along the medial and lateral sides of the foot to limit side to side movement of the foot. Securing system includes a pair of straps and that extend over the instep of the foot and operate to secure the foot within upper and relative to sole structure .

The configuration of sole structure discussed above provides an example of a suitable sole structure for the present invention. In alternate embodiments toe support and heel support may extend over a greater area of the foot for example. Securing system may also include a plurality of straps that extend around the heel over the instep and over the toes. Accordingly the specific configuration of sole structure may vary significantly within the scope of the present invention.

Upper is formed primarily from multiple yarns that are mechanically manipulated through an interlooping process to produce a unitary structure having various sections with different physical properties. Various interlooping techniques are available for mechanically manipulating yarn into upper . In general however interlooping involves the formation of a plurality of rows and columns of intermeshed loops which are conventionally referred to as courses and wales. Knitting is generally recognized as being the most common method of interlooping.

The configuration of upper is selected to generally conform to the shape of the foot. The knitting process that produces upper forms a plurality of sections each section being specifically located knit in a specific manner and knit with a specific type of yarn to provide each section with different physical properties. The sections in the exemplary embodiment of include an ankle section a heel section an instep section a primary section and a toe section . Ankle section is configured to surround the ankle and form an ankle opening that provides access to the interior of upper . Heel section is positioned adjacent to ankle section and is configured to extend around a portion of the heel. Instep section extends along the instep from ankle section . Primary section extends along medial and lateral sides of the foot over the toes and along the sole of the foot. Finally toe section extends around the portion of upper that corresponds with the ends of the toes.

The yarn and knit selected for ankle section provides four way stretch around the ankle opening. That is ankle section expands vertically and horizontally upon the application of a tensile force thereby permitting the foot to enter upper . Once the foot is within upper ankle section contracts to recover the unstretched shape and comfortably conform to the shape of the ankle. Ankle section includes an inner layer and an overlapping outer layer that are formed as a jersey knit by reversing the textile to create the two overlapping layers. The inner layer of ankle section is formed to include a slit . A semi rigid element may be inserted through slit to form a support positioned between the inner layer and the outer layer of ankle section . In order to provide the stretch and recovery properties of ankle section a yarn that incorporates an elastane fiber may be utilized. Elastane fibers are available from E.I. duPont de Nemours Company under the LYCRA trademark. Such fibers may have the configuration of covered LYCRA wherein the fiber includes a LYCRA core that is surrounded by a nylon sheath. Other fibers or filaments exhibiting elastic properties may also be utilized in ankle section .

Heel section is formed to provide two way stretch in the horizontal direction but limit stretch in the vertical direction. In forming heel section a ribbed texture is imparted due to inherent material shrinkage when removed from a cylinder of a narrow tube circular knitting machine which will be described in greater detail below. Heel section stretches therefore along various ribs which are oriented horizontally. The specific materials forming heel section may include a combination of 400 denier and 800 denier nylon yarns. This combination permits the horizontal stretch but limits stretch in the vertical direction. If for example four way stretch is desired yarn incorporating elastane fibers may be substituted. In addition lesser stretch or no stretch may be achieved by increasing the course density and denier of the yarn in heel section . Depending upon the desired characteristics of heel section therefore yarns with a variety of fibers or filaments may be utilized as discussed in detail below.

Yarn is defined as an assembly having a substantial length and relatively small cross section that is formed of at least one filament or a plurality of fibers. Fibers have a relatively short length and require spinning or twisting processes to produce a yarn of suitable length for use in an interlooping process. Common examples of fibers are cotton and wool. Filaments however have an indefinite length and may merely be combined with other filaments to produce a yarn suitable for use in an interlooping process. Modern filaments include a plurality of synthetic materials such as rayon nylon polyester and acrylic with silk being the primary naturally occurring exception. Yarn may be formed of a single filament conventionally referred to as a monofilament yarn or a plurality of individual filaments. Yarn may also be formed of separate filaments formed of different materials or the yarn may be formed of filaments that are each formed of two or more different materials. Similar concepts also apply to yarns formed from fibers. Accordingly yarns may have a variety of configurations within the scope of the present invention that generally conform to the definition provided above.

As discussed above nylon yarns or yarns that incorporate elastane fibers are suitable for heel section . The characteristics of the various yarns selected for heel section depend primarily upon the materials that form the various filaments and fibers. Cotton for example provides a soft hand natural aesthetics and biodegradability. Elastane fibers as discussed above provide substantial stretch and recoverability. Rayon provides high luster and moisture absorption. Wool also provides high moisture absorption in addition to insulating properties. Polytetrafluoroethylene coatings may provide a low friction contact between the textile and the skin thereby limiting the formation of blisters. Nylon is a durable and abrasion resistant material with high strength. Finally polyester is a hydrophobic material that also provides relatively high durability. Accordingly the materials comprising the yarn may be selected to impart a variety of physical properties to heel section or any other section of upper . The physical properties may include for example strength stretch support stiffness recovery fit and form.

Instep section extends along the instep from ankle section and provides four way stretch. Although the knit may be similar to ankle section instep section will generally be formed to have a single layer rather than the overlapping layers of ankle section . The same yarn utilized for ankle section may be utilized for instep section . In addition a plurality of openings may be formed in instep section to enhance the stretch properties of instep section . Instep section may be formed by using three feeds of yarns for example. When switching between the feeds a tuck stitch is generally utilized. By not forming a tuck stitch in specific locations openings are formed.

Primary section forms a majority of upper and is positioned to extend along medial and lateral sides of the foot over the toes and along the sole of the foot. As with heel section primary section includes a plurality of ribs . In general ribs are oriented to permit upper to stretch around the foot and to limit longitudinal stretch along the foot. Heel section and primary section may be formed through the same knitting process but ribs in each of heel section and primary section are oriented in different directions. The rationale for permitting stretch around the foot in primary section is that upper will conform to feet with various width dimensions. The degree of stretch in primary section may be adjusted by utilizing a yarn with greater denier and increasing the course density.

Toe section extends around the portion of upper that corresponds with the ends of the toes and toe section includes a plurality of ribs that are oriented horizontally. In this orientation stretch is provided in the horizontal direction. Any of the materials discussed above with respect to heel section may be utilized for primary section and toe section .

A narrow tube circular knitting machine may be utilized to manufacture upper . An example of a circular knitting machine that may be utilized to form upper will be discussed in greater detail below. In general circular knitting machines form a tube like structure. Upper therefore also has a tube like structure with openings at opposite ends of the tube. The ankle opening in ankle section forms a first opening and an aperture in the lower surface of primary section forms a second opening. Aperture is analogous to the seam that extends over the toes in a conventional sock that is also manufactured on a circular knitting machine. Insole which is positioned within upper may be utilized to cover aperture .

Based upon the above discussion upper has a knit structure with various sections that impart different physical properties. Ankle section is formed of a yarn and knit that provides four way stretch. Heel section is formed of a different yarn and a different knit to provide two way stretch and durability for example. Instep section also provides four way stretch but includes only a single layer of knit material. Similar considerations are also applicable to primary section and toe section . Accordingly the different sections of upper impart physical properties that are specially selected for the each section . More specifically the knitting process that produces upper forms a plurality of sections that are specifically located knit in a specific manner and knit with a specific type of yarn to provide each section with different physical properties. The physical properties may include for example strength stretch support stiffness recovery fit and form.

In manufacturing upper with a circular knitting machine various types of yarn and various knit structures are utilized to form the various sections . As discussed above upper is manufactured to have the general shape of a tube. The circular knitting machine therefore operates to form a first course which corresponds with an end of the tube. A second course is then knit adjacent to the first course and the process continues through successive courses until upper is complete.

The manner in which the circular knitting machine changes between different yarn types and knit structures depends upon whether the change occurs between adjacent courses or between adjacent wales. A course is a horizontal row of needle loops. In general a circular knitting machine may knit a first course with a first yarn and then knit a second course with a second yarn without altering the structure of the knit material. That is two courses that are formed of two different types of yarn will have a structure that is substantially identical to two courses formed of the same yarn except for the differences imparted by the different yarns.

Whereas a course is a horizontal row of needle loops a wale is a vertical column of intermeshed needle loops. A course therefore includes a plurality of wales. In forming two wales from the same yarn a circular knitting machine merely makes successive knits along the course. To form two wales from different yarns however a circular knitting machine forms a tuck stitch between the wales of different yarns. That is a tuck stitch is utilized to seamlessly connect two wales formed of different yarns. In forming upper therefore tuck stitches are often utilized to seamlessly join the various sections between two adjacent wales. An advantage to utilizing the tuck stitches rather than some other methods of joining the sections is that the ends of yarns otherwise referred to as tails are not exposed thereby decreasing the possibility of unraveling between the sections.

Referring specifically to upper tuck stitches are utilized between instep section and primary section to join sections and together. No tuck stitches are necessary between ankle section and instep section for example because ankle section and instep section are joined between courses rather than wales.

Accordingly tuck stitches are utilized in any portion of upper to join wales formed of two different yarns.

Upper is intended to provide one example of a suitable upper for footwear or other articles of footwear that include a knit structure for the upper. Other uppers may be formed to have a variety of other configurations. That is the various sections of other uppers may be positioned knit from specific yarns and formed with a specific knit structure to achieve a desired purpose. For example an upper which is also suitable for footwear is depicted in . Upper includes an ankle section a heel section an instep section a primary section and a metatarsal section .

Ankle section is configured to surround the ankle and form an ankle opening that provides access to the interior of upper . Heel section is configured to extend around a portion of the heel. Instep section extends along the instep from ankle section and extends around the ankle to thereby separate ankle section from heel section . Primary section extends along medial and lateral sides of the foot over the toes and along the sole of the foot. Finally metatarsal section is located within instep section and generally covers a forward portion of the foot. Upper may also include a section that is similar in location and structure to toe section of upper .

Upper is formed primarily from multiple yarns that are mechanically manipulated through an interlooping process to produce a unitary structure having various sections with different physical properties. The physical properties may include for example strength stretch support stiffness recovery fit and form. The various yarns may be selected to include any of the yarns discussed above with respect to upper . In addition tuck stitches are utilized in any portion of upper to seamlessly join wales formed of two different yarns.

A method of manufacturing upper will now be discussed with reference to an exemplary embodiment of a narrow tube circular knitting machine which is depicted in . One skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that the concepts disclosed in the following discussion also apply to the manufacture of upper or any other upper in accordance with the present invention. Knitting machine is similar to conventional circular sock knitting machines which knit in a circular fashion to create tubular structures such as socks. The conventional circular knitting machines typically form the socks for example from two separate feeds of yarn with each feed including up to ten different types of yarns. Using the conventional knitting machine multiple steps and operations are required to knit the sock. For example the conventional sock is knit using a continuous forward motion of the knitting machine cylinder to first knit the rib and leg portions of the sock. The cylinder then switches into a fixed reciprocating motion to knit the heel pocket of the sock. The cylinder returns to the continuous forward motion to knit the foot portion of the sock. Finally the cylinder switches back into the fixed reciprocating motion to knit the toe pocket of the sock.

Unlike conventional two feed circular knitting machines knitting machine has four feeds of yarn with each feed containing up to ten different types of yarns in fingers. An example of a suitable commercially available narrow tube circular knitting machine that may be utilized as knitting machine is sold by Sangiocomo S.p.A. of Italy under the X MACHINE trademark. The X MACHINE has been used to produce argyle style socks where multiple colored yarns form argyle and other complex patterns.

Knitting machine is depicted in and includes first second third and fourth feed valve assemblies respectively. Each assembly is associated with a feed finger assembly a feed center cam and a forward and reverse stitch cam. Only the first and second feed finger assemblies and the second feed cam and the first and second forward and reverse stitch cam however are depicted in . A 160 needle 4 inch cylinder assembly is centrally located. Finally an elastic power feeder a dial head assembly and a dial and circular cutter are positioned above cylinder assembly . Extending downward from spools are a plurality of yarns .

In manufacturing upper with knitting machine a plurality of tuck stitches are utilized to join wales formed of two different yarns. Accordingly tuck stitches are present between instep section and primary portion for example. Tuck stitches are also utilized between side portions of metatarsal section and instep section . No tuck stitches are necessary however to join courses formed of different yarns.

Accordingly no tuck stitches are present between ankle section and instep section for example. Numerous yarn materials of varying diameters sizes stretch characteristics and colors thus can be used to manufacture upper .

Knitting machine has the ability to run in a continuous or in a reciprocating motion and can select groups or patterns of needles in either the knit tuck or float position. Utilizing the four yarn feeds of the machine different yarn types can be used and different patterns and textures can be formed within sections and the various sections may be linked together by the use of tuck stitches where necessary to join wales of different yarns. Advantageously knitting machine knits the different sections in a continuous manner so that no additional manufacturing steps are required to sew or otherwise attach adjoining sections . As a result there are no seams in the footwear between adjoining sections and the amount of material waste is reduced.

As discussed above knitting machine may be utilized to impart different physical properties to sections through the use of different yarns and knits. For example instep section can be knit with a stretch yarn such as a yarn that incorporated LYCRA to provide adjustability in this portion of upper . By controlling the type of yarn used to fabricate instep section materials offering greater elasticity may be fabricated into this region to achieve the desired stretch characteristics. Similarly in primary section where abrasion resistance may be considered important knitting machine may be utilized to provide a yarn with suitable abrasion resistance characteristics such as nylon or polyester. Other possible physical properties may be fabricated into upper including stretch resistance softer texture and improved breathability for example. In addition the color of the yarns may be varied to provide a desired aesthetic.

In manufacturing upper knitting machine initially produces the sculptured ankle section . By continuing to knit various courses the portion of instep section that is adjacent to ankle section is knitted. Both ankle section and instep section may be formed from a yarn with high stretchability. Furthermore ankle section may be formed to have two overlapping layers for greater durability around the ankle opening.

Heel section is then knit with a different yarn and texture by utilizing additional needles in a reciprocating action to create a rounded heel pocket or turn in the tube structure of upper . A non stretch yarn may be utilized in heel section . This process uses about 75 percent of the cylinder needles as opposed to 50 percent in conventional knitting to create a defined heel pocket. Like heel section of upper heel section includes a plurality of ribs oriented horizontally to produce two way stretch in the horizontal direction.

After forming heel section knitting machine may form portions of primary section and instep section . Primary section includes a plurality of ribs that are oriented to extend laterally across upper and primary section may be formed of a durable yarn such as polyester or nylon for example. In manufacturing this portion of upper knitting machine continuously forms courses around upper . Accordingly each course includes a transition between the yarn utilized to form primary section and the different yarn utilized to form instep section . Because the transition is between adjacent wales a tuck stitch joins primary section and instep section . Each course also includes a transition between instep section and primary section in which another tuck stitch is utilized.

As knitting machine continues to manufacture upper additional courses are added and primary section and instep section continue to lengthen and metatarsal section is formed. Tuck stitches are also utilized in the transition from instep section to metatarsal section and tuck stitches are again utilized in the transition from metatarsal section to instep section . The tuck stitches utilized in the transitions between instep section and metatarsal section are in addition to the tuck stitches between primary section and instep section . Accordingly each course extending through metatarsal section includes four tuck stitches to join adjacent wales formed of different yarns.

A toe area of upper is formed in a manner that is similar to a conventional toe portion of a sock with the exception of the texture of the fabric and the utilization of more needles action to create a defined toe pocket or turn in the tube fabric. Also a 180 degree turn of the toe fabric is formed prior to the final press off or release of the yarns to position the final course on the bottom of upper which is later covered by a sole structure. Upper is finished at the bottom without a seam. This is accomplished by finishing the knitting process with a yarn that contains water soluble fibers. The water soluble fibers permit the fabric to shrink in the dyeing process and provides a finished edge thereby eliminating the conventional seaming step and allowing upper to lie flat on the outsole without the presence of a ridge which is conventionally created by a seam.

The general shape of upper and upper may be selected to be the general shape of a foot. Accordingly a last may be placed within upper and any additional parts such as a midsole and an outsole may be connected to upper in a form fitting relation by adhesion molding sewing or any other conventional method of attachment. Similarly a last may be placed within upper and sole structure may be subsequently attached.

It should also be understood that the method of the present invention may use numerous types of recyclable materials. For example the yarns utilized in uppers and may include recyclable fibers or filaments. In addition cotton or wool yarns may be utilized to enhance biodegradability of the footwear.

In accordance with the above discussion uppers and are lightweight footwear elements that include various sections of different physical properties that are seamlessly joined with tuck stitches and respectively. The sections may exhibit two directional stretch four dimensional stretch no stretch enhanced durability high moisture absorption and breathability and enhanced abrasion resistance for example. It should be understood by those skilled in the relevant art that these sections are simply representative of the possible types of sections that may be fabricated into upper upper or any other upper produced by the method of the present invention.

The present invention is disclosed above and in the accompanying drawings with reference to a variety of embodiments. The purpose served by the disclosure however is to provide an example of the various features and concepts related to the invention not to limit the scope of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that numerous variations and modifications may be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

