---

title: Aromatic ketones and uses thereof
abstract: Aromatic ketones having an extended fluoro-alkyl or fluoro-alkoxy moiety are disclosed. In particular aspects, the compounds comprise substituted 9-acridone, 9-xanthone, 4(1H)-quinolone, 4(1H) pyridone, 1,4-naphthoquinone, 9,10-anthraquinone derivatives. These preparations possess potent pharmacological activity for inhibiting malaria and mosquito-borne () diseases. The haloalkyl/alkoxy aromatic compounds possess significant pharmacological activity, with ICvalues in the nanomolar and sub-nanomolar range, and reduced toxicity against host derived cells and tissues. Methods of using the fluoro-alkyl/alkoxy aromatic compounds in the treatment of malaria and other human and animal diseases are also disclosed. Agricultural uses of the fluoro-alkyl/alkoxy aromatic compounds, such as in control of fungal diseases and in the production of important commercial crops (apples, etc.), are also presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07829578&OS=07829578&RS=07829578
owner: U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
number: 07829578
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061205
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 749 084 filed Dec. 12 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The United States Government may have rights to the invention described herein as research relevant to the development of the invention was funded by United States governmental grant funds from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Research Program.

In compliance with 37 C.F.R. 1.71 g 1 disclosure is herein made that the claimed invention was made pursuant to a Joint Research Agreement as defined in 35 U.S.C. 103 c 3 that was in effect on or before the date the claimed invention was made and as a result of activities undertaken within the scope of the Joint Research Agreement by or on the behalf of the Oregon Health Sciences University and the United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.

The present invention relates generally to the field of pharmacologically active preparations and particularly to pharmacologically active preparations that are useful in the treatment and or prevention of infectious diseases especially parasitic diseases such as malaria as optimized naphthoquinones acridones quinolones pyridones anthraquinones xanthones and derivatives thereof having anti parasitic activity is disclosed.

Malaria has plagued mankind since the beginning of civilization and is believed to be responsible for roughly half of all human deaths that have ever occurred. Malaria remains the most significant parasitic disease in the tropics and sub tropics where it causes at least 300 million clinical episodes and claims 1.5 million victims each year.

With a worldwide resurgence in the incidence of malaria the spread of multi drug resistant strains of the emergence of chloroquine resistant and the increasing resistance of mosquitoes to insecticides malaria remains an enormous threat to the millions of people who travel to the tropics and subtropics each year.

Malaria is a worsening global health problem. The incidence of malaria continues to increase worldwide due in part to the emergence of drug resistance. Initially observed in the late 1950 s and early 1960 s in South America and Southeast Asia chloroquine resistant parasites that are associated with the most virulent form of malaria cerebral malaria have now spread to all malarious regions of the world. Varney et al. 1994 1997 and others report a strong correlation between cerebral malaria and neuropsychiatric symptoms such as poor dichotic listening personality change depression and in some cases partial seizure like symptoms. The tropical neuralnesia resulting from the legendary malarial fevers is well known in endemic areas and has been documented throughout history.

Due to the spread of multi drug resistance mefloquine is currently the drug of choice in treating malaria. However this drug is known to cause sleep disturbances increased dream activity and cause depression in some individuals.Ototoxicity and central nervous system effects are known to occur with mefloquine therapy and may be as common as 1 in 200 to 1 000 individuals.Resistance to mefloquine is now common and occurs in regions in which the drug is not in general use.

Replacement drugs are urgently needed to treat malaria. The endoperoxides like artemisinin derived from a Chinese herbal remedy extracted from the wormwood plant are being used in other parts of the world for malaria therapy. However the use of this remedy is limited by reports of ototoxicity and neurotoxic effects of the endoperoxides.More recently severe reproductive toxicity in female rats has been reported in animals treated with artesunate and its active metabolite dihydroartemisinin. These findings are mirrored in reports by others in several different animal models.

Another pharmaceutical used in the treatment of malaria is atovaquone. Atovaquone is combined with the agent proguanil in a formulation known as Malarone for treatment of malaria. Used alone resistance to atovaquone occurs rapidly and is linked to specific mutations in the parasite gene encoding cytochrome b a major transmembrane subunit of the cytochrome bccomplex central to the redox and proton pumping reactions occurring in the parasite mitochondrion.Mutations at or near the ubiquinol binding region of the protein seem to sterically hinder binding of atovaquone with its rigid and bulky side chain.In order for the parasite to survive such mutations must permit discrimination between the drug and ubiquinol binding to cyt b.

Floxacrine is a drug that was described by Raether of Hoechst in the 1970 s and 80 s.This acridinedione is active to some extent in vitro and in vivo against multi drug resistant parasites but development of the drug was abandoned due to unacceptable toxicity. Winkelmann and Raether found that the fully aromatic acridone analog of floxacrine was only slightly active against parasites see their compound 111 . The mode of action of floxacrine has not been determined. Suswam et al. have reported a modest cross resistance between floxacrine and atovaquone in isolates and clones.

In spite of all this the pursuit of products specifically aimed at tropical diseases is not considered to be sufficiently profitable to feature among the research priorities of most pharmaceutical companies.The panacea for malaria therapy would be the development of a long lasting vaccine but the recent failure of the SPf66 vaccineand unrealized potential of newer multi component DNA vaccines combine to indicate that a vaccine is a long way from reality.

A need continues to exist in the medical field for the development of safe inexpensive anti parasitic agents especially agents that would be useful against multi drug resistant organisms such as and

The present invention in a general and overall sense provides new pharmacologically active preparations and methods of making and using these preparations in the treatment of parasitic diseases and infectious diseases.

In some aspects the invention provides novel chemical molecules having a structure that includes a linear or branched chain fluorinated alkyl or alkoxy moiety attached to a substituted aromatic component. In some embodiments the fluorinated alkyl or alkoxy moiety comprises an alkoxy tri fluorinated group such as a trifluoromethyl CF containing alkoxy group. In some embodiments the trifluoromethyl group is located at a terminal end of the alkyl alkoxy moiety.

A particular structural element of the optimized compounds and derivatives among others is the presence of an extended 4 to 14 carbon atoms linear or branched chain alkyl or alkoxy moiety that is terminated by fluorinated carbon atoms.

In some embodiments the fluorinated alkyl or alkoxy aromatic compounds as well as analogs and derivatives thereof may be further described as having an enhanced anti parasitic particularly anti malarial activity.

In some embodiments the anti malarial activity of the alkyl or alkoxy aromatic compounds may be described as pharmacologically active at very low concentrations in the low nanomolar and sub nanomolar ranges. In yet other embodiments the compounds may be described as having a therapeutic index suitable for use as an agent for the prevention and or treatment of disease particularly malaria in vivo without an untoward level of toxicity.

In other aspects the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds presented herein may be described as having a cytostatic or cytocidal activity against fungal organisms.

The substituted fluoroalkyllalkoxy aromatic compounds as well as analogs and derivatives thereof may in some embodiments comprise substituted 4 1H pyridones. In other embodiments the substituted fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds as well as analogs and derivatives thereof may comprise quinolones naphthoquinones acridones anthraquinones or xanthones. A key feature is the presence of at least one carbonyl group on the aromatic moiety.

In a general and overall sense the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds may be described as comprising a basic chemical structure of Formula I D QZ wherein QZ is a moiety having a moiety Q and a moiety Z wherein Q comprises a moiety O CH S NH or D and is a bridging group connecting the moiety Q to a moiety Z Z comprises a moiety H when Q is D or Z comprises a linear or branched chain alkyl or alkene moiety of 4 to 14 carbons in length terminated by one or more fluorine atoms when Q is other than D D comprises a moeity H OH alkyl alkoxy halogen haloalkyl alkoxy substituted alkoxy NH alkylamine dialkylamine cyclic alkylamine azido carboxy carboxylate substituted carboxy ester carboxamide cyano amidino nitro SH alkylthio sulfonate or sulfonamide and n comprises an aromatic moiety bearing a carbonyl functional group selected from the group consisting of 

In specific embodiments n is an aromatic ketone. By way of example these aromatic ketones include 9 10H acridones 4 1H quinolones 4 1H pyridones 1 4 naphthoquinones 9 10 anthraquinones xanthones or 9 10H anthrones.

In particular embodiments Z is a branched linear or cyclic alkyl or alkene moiety that is substituted at its terminal end with one or more fluorine atoms.

By way of example but not limited to the terminal chemical moiety comprises a fluorine bearing group such as CHF CHF CF CF n CF i CF n CF i CF or SF. In some embodiments the Z moeity comprises a branched or a straight chain alkyl or alkene. Where Z is an alkene moiety it may contain 1 or more double bonds for example 2 or 3 double bonds. In each embodiment there is only a single QZ group attached to the aromatic core component at any available carbon atom. In particular embodiments D moieties can be at any position on the aromatic core component that is not occupied by QZ and may further be located at more than one location of an aromatic core component.

In some embodiments D comprises a moiety that is substituted with an amino group. The D moiety may in some embodiments serve to improve the solubility or molecular electronic characteristics of the molecule.

In some embodiments and by way of example Z comprises a moiety that is terminated by a halogen bearing group such as CF CHF CHF CF n CF i CF n CF i CF or SF.

In all embodiments Z is attached to Q and Z is attached to a carbon atom of the aromatic component n . In essentially all embodiments Z will be attached to Q.

In some embodiments Z is attached to Q and Q positioned at an aromatic carbon atom of n. In particular embodiments Z comprises an alkyl moiety of 4 to 14 carbons in length and comprises a terminal carbon having 1 or more fluorine atoms. In particular exemplary embodiments this terminal fluorine constituent is CHF CHF CF CF n CF i CF or n CF i CF or SF.

Other embodiments of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n is a 1 4 naphthoquinone aromatic ring system and comprises a structure 

In some embodiments one position of the aromatic system is occupied by a moiety Q and the Q moiety is an oxygen O atom and further comprises a Z moiety the Z moiety comprising a halo alkyl moiety such as a 5 carbon alkyl terminated by 1 or more fluorine atoms. By way of example the 5 carbon halo alkyl may be terminated by 3 fluorine F atoms. In some embodiments this compound is 2 5 5 5 trifluoro pentyloxy 1 4 naphthoquinone. This compound is further described as having an ICvalue of 133 nM against a drug sensitive D6 strain of and against multi drug resistant strains of W2 Dd2 7G8 and Tm93C1088 . In these embodiments placement of the QZ group onto the naphthoquinone ring system improves antimalarial potency by roughly 50 fold compared to the ICvalue for 2 hydroxy 1 4 naphthoquinone which is about 1 800 nM .

In other embodiments the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n comprises a 4 1H quinolone aromatic ring system having a structure 

For example in particular embodiments the QZ moiety comprises an eleven 11 carbon alkyl that comprises a tri fluorine substituted terminal carbon moiety C11 F3 . In particular of these embodiments this compound is 2 methyl 3 11 11 11 trifluoro undecyl 7 methoxy 4 1H quinolone. This 4 1H quinolone compound may be further described as having an ICof about 0.2 nM against a drug sensitive strain D6 and an ICof about 0.2 nM against a multi drug resistant strain W2 of . The presence of the particular QZ moiety as a side chain brings about a dramatic antimalarial enhancement of more than 1 000 fold compared to 2 methyl 7 methoxy 4 1H quinolone IC 2 500 nM .

Other embodiments of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n is a xanthone aromatic ring system and comprises a structure 

In some embodiments one position of the aromatic system is occupied by a Q moeity wherein the Q moiety comprises an oxygen O atom and a Z moiety wherein the Z moiety comprises a halo alkyl moiety such as a 6 carbon alkyl terminated by 1 or more fluorine atoms. By way of example the 6 carbon halo alkyl may be terminated by 3 fluorine F atoms. In some embodiments one position of the aromatic system is occupied by a D moeity defined as a hydroxy group. In some embodiments this compound is 3 6 6 6 trifluorohexyloxy 6 hydroxyxanthone. This compound is further described as having an ICvalue of 0.7 M against a drug sensitive D6 strain of and against multi drug resistant strains of W2 Dd2 7G8 and Tm93C1088 . Thus placement of the QZ moiety group onto the xanthone ring system improves antimalarial potency by more than 100 fold as compared to the ICvalue for 3 6 dihydroxy xanthone which is over 100 M .

Other embodiments of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n is an acridone aromatic ring system and comprises a structure 

In some embodiments one position of the aromatic system is occupied by a Q moeity wherein the Q moiety comprises an oxygen O atom and a Z moiety wherein the Z moiety comprises a halo alkyl moiety such as a 6 carbon alkyl terminated by 1 or more fluorine atoms. By way of example the 6 carbon halo alkyl may be terminated by 3 fluorine F atoms. In some embodiments one position of the aromatic system is occupied by a D moiety. wherein the D moiety comprises an hydroxy group. In some embodiments this compound is 3 6 6 6 trifluorohexyloxy 6 chloro acridone wherein the chlorine atom represents a D moiety and it is located at position 6 of the central aromatic system. This compound is further described as having an ICvalue of 0.16 nM against a drug sensitive D6 strain of and an ICvalue of 0.16 nM against multi drug resistant strains of W2 Dd2 7G8 and Tm93C1088 . Thus placement of the QZ moeity onto the acridone ring system improves antimalarial potency by more than 10 000 fold as compared to the ICvalue for 3 hydroxy 6 chloroacridone which is over 2 200 nM .

In other embodiments the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n comprises an aromatic pyridone system having a structure 

In particular embodiments the D moiety comprises methoxy CHO methyl CH or NH the Q moiety comprises an oxygen O atom and the Z moiety comprises a six 6 carbon alkyl that includes 1 or more terminal halogen substitutions such as fluorine F substitutions. For example in particular embodiments the Z moeity is a six 6 carbon alkyl chain that comprises a tri fluorine substituted terminal carbon moiety C6 F3 . In particular embodiments the D moeity comprises methoxy OCH at one position methyl at another position and NHat another position of the aromatic system not occupied by a QZ moeity. In particular of these embodiments QZ is 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy. This compound may most specifically be defined as 3 amino 5 methoxy 6 methyl 2 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy 4 1H pyridone.

In some embodiments the alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n comprises an aromatic system having a structure 

By way of example this QZ moiety is a 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy group. In a particular embodiment this compound comprises 6 Methoxy 2 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy 4 1H quinolone.

In some embodiments the alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound comprise a structure of Formula I D QZ wherein n is an aromatic acridone system comprising a structure 

In some embodiments the QZ moeity is 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy. In these particular embodiments the compound may be defined as 3 carboxamido 6 6 6 6 trifluoro hexyloxy 9 acridone.

Generally the alkyl alkoxy aromatic compositions include a fluorine atom. In most embodiments one or more fluorine atom s are located on the extended alkyl or alkoxy side chain.

In some embodiments the alkyl groups of the compounds may be branched or linear alkyl groups and the branched substituents may be connected to form a ring. In some embodiments the alkyl groups may be described as having a fluorine atom located at the terminal end of the alkyl branched or linear chain. The terminal carbon of the branched or linear carbon chain may further be described as including one or more fluorine substitutions. In this regard some embodiments of the chemical molecule will include 2 or 3 fluorine substituents or more. For example in some embodiments the compound comprises a tri halogen substituted group such as a tri fluoromethyl substituted group CF.

In some aspects methods are provided for the treatment and or prevention of parasitic diseases. In some embodiments the parasitic diseases may be further described as human parasitic diseases. By way of example such human or animal parasitic diseases include malaria toxoplasmosis amebiasis giardiasis leishmaniasis trypanosomiasis coccidiosis caused by organisms such as sp. sp. sp and also includes infections by helminths such as ascaris schistosomes and filarial worms. The present compositions and methods are also effective in the treatment of fungal pathogens including and others.

In particular aspects the parasitic diseases may be caused by parasites that cause malaria. Particular species of parasites that are included within this group include all species that are capable of causing human infection. By way of example and not exclusion such species of parasites include and

In other embodiments the invention provides for a treatment regimen comprising administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable preparation of the compound of Formula I alone or in combination with another pharmaceutically active component. In some embodiments a combination of the compound of Formula I may be administered as part of a treatment regimen with quinine quinones chloroquine atovaquone proguanil primaquine amodiaquine mefloquine artemisinin methylene blue 7 chloro 10 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 4 dihydroacridine 1 9 2H 10H dione Floxacrine pyrimethamine sulfadoxine artemether lumefantrine Coartem dapsone chlorproguanil LAPDAP artesunate quinidine clopidol pyridone pyridinol analogs e.g. clopidol dihydroartemisinin atovaquone Malarone mixture of atovaquone and proguanil an endoperoxide e.g. artemisinin or any combination of these.

In yet another aspect the herein described compounds are formulated into pharmaceutical compositions for administering to subjects in a biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo.

In yet other aspects the invention provides methods for the treatment of fungal infections. By way of example these fungal infections are human or animal fungal infections such as and plant fungal infections such as those that currently compromise various agricultural industries. In particular the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds possess an antifungal activity that may be used to control a number of common plant pathogens that reduce crop yields.

Some of the plants and agricultural crops susceptible to plant pathogens and plant diseases that may be treated with the herein described alkylialkoxy aromatic compounds include several important food crops. Some of these important food crops include wheat wheat rust rye ergot peanuts aflatoxin potatoes potato late blight peaches brown rot grapes grapevine powdery mildew and plants of the genus including potatoes and tomatoes late blight fungus and strawberries grey mold .

By way of example the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds may be formulated to provide a treatment for application to a plant and or agricultural crop of interest. Hence the invention in yet another aspect provides a method of enhancing agricultural crop yield and for treating plant pathogens and inhibiting plant pathogen spread and infectivity. The alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds may be used either alone or in combination with other plant pest management treatments. By way of example other fungicides that may be used in combination preparation with the presently disclosed compounds include sulfur based preparations wettable sulfur sterol inhibitors and strobilurins as well as a Bordeaux mixture combination of copper sulfate and lime used to treat late blight fungus .

In yet another aspect a screening method is provided comprising screening compounds having anti parasitic activity particularly anti malarial or anti fungal activity. In some embodiments the method comprises selecting molecules having a fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic pharmacophore structure of Formula I as defined herein to provide a pool of candidate anti parasitic compounds and selecting candidate compounds having an in vitro anti Plasmodium activity characterized by an ICvalue of 1 M micromolar or less against a drug sensitive strain of to provide a pool of candidate anti parasitic compounds.

It is advantageous to define several terms before describing the invention. It should be appreciated that the following definitions are used throughout this application.

Where the definition of terms departs from the commonly used meaning of the term applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below unless specifically indicated.

The term biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo relates to a form of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative thereof to be administered in which any toxic effects are outweighed by the therapeutic effects. The compounds and preparations containing the compounds may be administered to living organisms including humans animals and plants.

The term a an and the include reference to the plural unless the context as herein represented clearly indicates otherwise.

The term alkyl refers to a carbon chain of 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or 11 12 13 14 15 or even up to 20 carbons in length.

The term extended alkyl refers to a carbon chain of 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or 11 12 13 or even up to 14 carbons in length.

The term anti parasite activity is defined as an inhibitory and or anti biological activity against a pathogenic organism such as a parasite cell including and including bacteria and fungi.

The term drug resistant relates to an absence of or a reduced inhibitory response to an agent relative to the response of a non resistant control organism or cell.

The term effective amount relates to a volume dose or concentration of a haloalkoxy aromatic ketones or a composition or preparation containing a haloalkoxy aromatic ketone derivative that prevents establishment of an infection e.g. prophylaxis or growth or provides a detectable decrease in growth. By way of example anti activity may include blockage of invasion of red blood cells or liver cells by the parasite or inhibition of parasite replication within either of these host cells.

A composition that is described herein as enriched for a particular pharmacologically or biochemically active agent for example is further defined as a composition that contains a higher concentration of a particular fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative as defined herein or demonstrates a greater pharmacological or biochemical activity associated with the particular alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative and or preparation relative to the concentration or detectable associated pharmacological or biochemical activity of that fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic derivative and or preparation as it is otherwise found in nature and or in a non purified or non screened compositional form. By way of example a pharmacologically or biochemically active agent may compromise a fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative or preparation as described herein.

The term essentially free of cytotoxic activity against white blood cells or a subtype of white blood cells e.g. lymphocytes is further described as having a de minimus for example 10 or 5 or less cytotoxic or inhibitory activity from the pharmacological activity of the alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative. For example a de minimus cytotoxic or inhibitory activity may comprise 20 or less or in some cases 10 or less of a detectable cytotoxic or inhibitory activity in a culture of white blood cells attributable to the pharmacological activity of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic ketone at a relatively high concentration of the compound. By way of example a relatively high concentration of the compound may comprise about 10 M 10 micromolar or more.

The term higher alkyl relates to a carbon chain branched or linear that is 4 to 14 or more carbons in length.

The term inhibition relates to any quantitative or qualitative reduction including prevention of infection and or complete killing of an invading organism relative to a control. Control as a non treated or control treated value. 

The term invading relates to a pathological activity of an organism against a healthy cell a population of healthy cells or whole organism.

The term lower alkyl relates to a carbon chain branched or linear that is 2 to 3 carbons in length. As used in the description of the present invention the term lower alkyl refers to substituents having alkyl groups i.e. an alkyl chain of 3 or fewer carbon atoms.

The term pharmacologically active amount relates to an amount of a particular fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or a tautomer thereof as defined herein or fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound in combination with another agent that provides a detectable reduction in parasitic activity in vitro or diminishes the likelihood of emergence of drug resistance.

The terms pharmacological activity and biochemical activity relates to a pharmacologically or biochemically detectable change in a cell or population of cells that is attributable to the presence or production of a compound either in vitro or in vivo in cellulo .

The term pharmacophore for purposes of describing the present invention is defined as a molecular framework that is part of a compound that possesses one or more essential features of a drug that is capable of inhibiting an invading or offending parasite organism or combination thereof.

The term therapeutically active amount relates to an amount effective to achieve a desired result. The therapeutically active amount may for example vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of an organism animal or individual and the relative potency of the compound to elicit a desired response in or on an organism animal or human individual. A dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide an optimum therapeutic response. For example several different doses may be administered daily or the dose maybe proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.

While the present invention is not necessarily limited to such applications various aspects of the invention may be appreciated through a discussion of the several examples presented below using this context.

The present example demonstrates a method by which the compounds of the present invention may be synthesized. One unique structural feature among others of the pharmacophore presented is the presence of a long alkyl or alkoxy side chain bearing one or more fluorine atoms on the terminal carbon atom s .

For preparation of 2 5 5 5 trifluoropentyloxy 1 4 naphthoquinone 2 hydroxy naphthoquinone 1.36 g 5 5 5 trifluoropentanol 1.30 g benzene 50 ml and 10 ml of concentrated hydrochloric acid were heated to boiling for 24 hours. A color change from brick red to orange occurred. Upon cooling 2 hydroxy naphthoquinone crystallized out. The filtrate was evaporated giving 330 mg of a crystalline residue. It appeared to be a 1 1 complex of 2 OH and 2 O CH CF 1 4 naphthoquinone. A sample was decomposed in aqueous KOH and the turbid mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate the extract shaken 3 times with an equal volume of water and the organic layer evaporated. 100 mg of the initial product resulted in 54 mg of product which is by g.c. m.s. H n.m.r. spectroscopy 2 5 5 5 trifluoropentyloxy 1 4 naphthoquinone orange needles m.p. 108 C.

To 3 6 dihydroxy xanthone 0.58 g 1 equivalent is added 10 ml of ethanol then 117 mg of KOH 0.8 equivalents followed by 0.58 g of CF CH Br 1 equivalent after two hours of boiling this mixture the pH had dropped to the acidic range and another 100 mg of KOH was added and heating continued overnight. The cooled mixture was diluted with water 50 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml the combined extracts washed with 5 ml of water and brought to dryness. Separation of the 3 component mixture was achieved by chromatography 100 g of silica gel column diameter 5 cm with solvents of increasing polarity Solvents used ethyl acetate A hexane isomeric mixture B ethanol C 

This method utilizes the Konrad Limpach reaction which consists of condensing a substituted position 2 acetoacetic ester with an aniline providing a 2 alkyl 3 phenylamino crotonic ester alternatively formulated as a Schiff base followed by ring closure in a high boiling solvent Dowtherm A boiling atm. p at about 250 C. . An exemplary reaction is presented below.

Ethyl 2 11 11 11 trifluoro undecyl acetoacetate is obtained by heating at reflux temperature for 20 hours in 75 ml ethanol the sodium derivative of ethyl acetoacetate from 1.60 g ester 0.28 g of Na first dissolved in ethanol and 3.45 g of CF CH Br. After this period the alcohol was evaporated and then water 50 ml was added to the residue and the product extracted with ethyl acetate 1 40 1 30 ml the extracts combined and the solvent evaporated.

The crude ethyl 2 11 11 11 trifluoroundecyl acetoacetate was heated to reflux with 60 ml of benzene 1.30 g of m anisidine and 3 drops of concentrated hydrochloric acid for five hours with continuous removal of water. After this time the solvent was removed the residue dissolved in 10 ml of Dowtherm A and the entire solution dropped into 60 ml of boiling Dowtherm A within 2 minutes and kept at boiling for 5 minutes. Since after cooling it is common for no product to crystallize out of solution about 200 ml of hexane was added. After standing overnight a crystalline precipitate had formed which was filtered off and washed with a small amount of acetone. Recrystallization 1alcohol 2acetone provides 0.37 g of whitish shiny soft crystals pure by thin layer chromatography and H n.m.r. spectroscopy which also shows the expected spectral pattern for this compound.

3 hydroxy 6 chloroacridone 594 mg was stirred in 10 ml of methanol and 5 ml of methanolic KOH 30 mg ml was added 1 equiv. base whereupon complete dissolution occurred. 1 Bromo 5 trifluoromethylpentane 2.03 g 3 equiv. was added and the solution heated at 70 C. overnight forming a fine solid precipitate after cooling 0.35 g of pale yellow powder was collected by filtration. When the filtrate is heated another 2 days the same quantity of product may be isolated in addition. The crude product was crystallized from methanol. Analogous procedures can be applied for preparation of compounds with the O CH CF O CH CF O CH CF and O CH CF side chains and including aromatic ketone derivatives bearing O CH CFand O CH CFside chains.

General procedure for CF CH Br Trifluoromethyl alkylbromide used in the above procedure These compounds are prepared by heating co bromoalkanoic acids with about 2.2 equivalents of SFin a steel bomb tube at 115 125 C. overnight the HF formed in the initial step of forming the acid fluoride sufficed as catalyst. Larger preparations required neutralization of the HF in the crude product smaller amounts were directly distilled without the neutralization step. All of them are pale yellow mobile liquids.

The aromatic core nucleus is demonstrated in the present example as part of additional exemplary compounds. The present example demonstrates that the aromatic nucleus is a potent and selective pharmacophore model that may be used in the development of highly potent and selective anti malarial agents.

The fluorine F substituted alkyl side group may be prepared to take several forms. Examples of these appear in Table 1.

The present example is provided to describe several techniques that may be used to increase the in vivo solubility of the alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds of the present invention.

The addition of hydroxy OH groups at various sites of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds is anticipated to increase the solubility of the compounds disclosed herein due to improved hydrogen bonding with water in the aqueous environment of the biological system. Addition of other polar chemical moieties can also improve the aqueous solubility of the fluoro alkyl or alkoxy compounds of this invention. Groups that engage in hydrogen bonding as so called hydrogen bond donors or hydrogen bond acceptors improve aqueous solubility due to improved interaction with water in the biological system. Apart from hydroxy other prototypical examples of such polar groups include but are not limited to amino alkylamino dialkylamino amido carboxy carboxy ester sulfonyl sulfonamide and azido.

The incorporation of double bonds into the fluorinated alkyl chains may improve aqueous solubility and drug bio availability improving the balance of a drug s lipid solubility passage across or into biological membranes vs. water solubility.

An additional approach at improving solubility and bio availability of an alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound according to the present invention includes the placement of a bio isostere onto the aromatic ring s of the compound. By way of example these include hydroxyl methoxy carboxy substituted carboxy e.g. ester amino or substituted amine e.g. dimethylamino nitro amidino cyano alkylthiosulfate sulfonate and sulfonamide groups. By way of example such bio isostere groups are included within the list of D components of Formula 1.

In some embodiments the bio isosteric group may be represented as the D component of Formula I and this group may be placed at any carbon atom of the aromatic core part of the molecule that is not otherwise occupied by the single QZ component. In some of these particular embodiments the bioisosteric group is a chlorine atom or a hydroxy group.

In yet other embodiments the solubility of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound may be improved by modifying the structure to include an N 10 carbamate ester such as of choline or succinate. This particular type of substitution is also expected to improve the targeting of the compound to the invading organism.

In yet other embodiments the solubility of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound or derivative may be improved by the addition of a hydroxyl group at the ring nitrogen atom of the pyridone quinoline or acridone nucleus.

The substituted compounds as described under 1 2 and 3 above can be tested for anti malarial activity using the D6 strain chloroquine sensitive mefloquine resistant and multi drug resistant strain W2 resistant to chloroquine pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine among others . The ICfor each of these compounds against both the drug sensitive strain D6 and the multi drug resistant strain W2 of is determined according to the procedure described herein.

Solubility of each of these compounds is assessed by calculating the logP and or ClogP value for each compound. A generally acceptable solubility range for an optimized fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compound is a ClogP value at or below 5.

The ClogP value is a measure of differential solubility of a compound in two solvents. The log ratio of the concentrations of the solute in the solvent is called LogP or the Partition Coefficient. The most well known of these partition coefficients is the one based on the solvents n octanol and water. The octanol water partition coefficient is a measure of the hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity of a substance. In the context of drug like substances hydrophobicity is related to absorption bioavailability hydrophobic drug receptor interactions metabolism and toxicity. The classical and most reliable method of LogP determination is the Shake flask method which consists of mixing a known amount of solute in a known volume of octanol and water then measuring the distribution of the solute in each solvent. The most common method of measuring the distribution of the solute is by UV VIS spectroscopy.

Another method for determining logP uses high performance liquid chromatography. The logP of a solute can be determined by correlating its retention time with similar compounds with known logP values.

Now that so many compounds have been analyzed for logP it is possible to predict logP values by computational means with high accuracy. Computer software such as CHEMDRAW by Cambridgesoft software is capable of predicting logP based on structural fragmentation resulting in values that have been calculated. Such calculations yield ClogP values.

In Vitro Anti Malarial Activity of Fluoro Alkyl Alkoxy Containing Compounds Including Substituted Acridones Naphthoquinones Xanthones and Quinolones

The present example is provided to detail the methods that have been used to assess the in vitro activity of the aromatic compounds particularly aromatic ketones of the D n QZ formulation.

Four different laboratory strains of were cultured in human erythrocytes by standard methods under a low oxygen atmosphere 5 O 5 CO 90 N in an environmental chamber. The culture medium was RPMI 1640 supplemented with 25 mM Hepes buffer 25 mg liter gentamicin sulfate 45 mg liter hypoxanthine 10 mM glucose 2 mM glutamine and 0.5 Albumax II complete medium . The parasites were maintained in fresh human erythrocytes suspended at a 2 hematocrit in complete medium at 37 C. Stock cultures were sub passaged every 3 to 4 days by transfer of infected red cells to a flask containing complete medium and uninfected erythrocytes.

In vitro antimalarial activity of the test compounds was assessed by a fluorescence based method described previously Smilkstein et al. 2004 Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy Vol. 48 pgs. 1803 1806 reference format . The studies were set up in triplicate in 96 well plates with two fold dilutions of each test compound across the plate in a total volume of 100 l and at a final red blood cell concentration of 2 v v . Stock solutions of each drug were prepared by dissolving in DMSO at 10 mM. The dilution series was initiated at a concentration of 1 M and the experiment was repeated beginning with a lower initial concentration for those compounds in which the ICvalue was below 10 nM. In every case an additional determination was performed to ensure bracketing of the ICvalue by at least an order of magnitude.

Automated pipeting and dilution was carried out by a programmable Precision 2000 robotic station Bio Tek Winooski Vt. . An initial parasitemia of 0.2 was attained by addition of normal uninfected red cells to a stock culture of asynchronous parasite infected red cells PRBC . The plates were incubated for 72 hrs at 37 C. in an atmosphere of 5 CO 5 O and 90 N. After this period the SyBrGreen I dye detergent mixture 100 l was added and the plates were incubated at room temperature for an hour in the dark and then placed in a 96 well fluorescence plate reader Gemini EM Molecular Diagnostics for analysis with excitation and emission wavelength bands centered at 497 and 520 nm respectively. The fluorescence readings were plotted against the logarithm of the drug concentration and curve fitting by nonlinear regression analysis GraphPad Prism software yielded the drug concentration that produced 50 of the observed decline from the maximum readings in the drug free control wells IC .

As shown in Tables 2 3 and 4 the most potent compounds share a unique and defining structural element in the presence of an extended alkyl group terminated by one or more CFgroups. From the data presented in the table at least one optimal location of the CFcontaining alkyl element differs depending on the nature of the central aromatic ketone. For example for the acridone nucleus the optimal location of the fluoro alkyl alkoxy group is at the 3 position. This may be the case for 4 1H quinolone system as well although quinolones bearing the haloalkoxy group at the 7 position also exhibit significant potency. Naphthoquinones with the QZ substituent at the 2 position exhibit remarkable antiparasitic activity that is enhanced by 50 to 100 fold over the potency of the unsubstituted 2 hydroxynaphthoquinone.

This is especially evident for 2 position haloalkoxynaphthoquinones i.e. where Q is an oxygen atom. Addition of an extended fluoro alkoxy moiety to the 3 position of the tricyclic xanthone and acridone systems improved the antimalarial inhibitory potency of the aromatic ketone by at least 100 fold against a panel of strains D6 W2 Dd2 7G8 and Tm93 C1088 harboring resistance to multiple therapeutic agents including chloroquine quinine mefloquine pyrimethamine and atovaquone. With ICvalues in the low and sub nanomolar range our most active compounds are more potent in vitro than many presently used clinical drugs including the quinolines and endoperoxides .

It is of interest to consider the nature of the central aromatic unit of the pharmacophore i.e. the n component and the significance of the haloalkoxy side chain i.e. the QZ component in drug potency. Replacement of the hydroxy group in 2 hydroxy 1 4 naphthoquinone by a trifluoroalkoxy side chain see Table 2 improves the antimalarial potency of the parent compound by over 50 fold. A similar antimalarial enhancing effect is seen with the trifluoroalkyl alkoxy side chain is placed on a quinoline acridone xanthone and anthrone aromatic ring system. Structurally diverse aromatic ketones may therefore be substituted for the centrally located n component to expand the structural diversity of this antimalarial class of haloalkoxy and haloalkyl containing compounds. By altering the structure of the pharmacophore i.e. within the confines of the D n QZ chemical architecture active compounds may be defined with enhanced antimalarial properties antiparasitic properties diminished toxicity improved bioavailability and improved efficacy in treatment and prevention of a broader range of infectious agents of humans animals and plants.

The present example identifies the utility of the present inventive compositions for use in veterinary applications such as in the preparation of veterinary medicaments for inhibiting controlling and or immunizing an animal against insect borne and or transmitted diseases. Some of these diseases include by way of example and not limitation coccidiosis. By way of specific example the compositions may be included as an active ingredient in the formulation of a treatment for commercially important animals. such as chickens in preventing and or treating such parasite borne diseases including coccidiosis.

The parasitic diseases may be further described as human parasitic diseases. By way of example such human or animal parasitic diseases include malaria toxoplasmosis amebiasis giardiasis leishmaniasis trypanosomiasis coccidiosis caused by organisms such as sp. sp. and also includes infections by helminths such as schistosomes and filarial worms. The present compositions and methods are also effective in the treatment of fungal pathogens including and others.

In particular aspects the parasitic diseases may be caused by parasites that cause malaria. Particular species of parasites that are included within this group include all species that are capable of causing human infection. By way of example and not exclusion such species of parasites include and

In other embodiments the invention provides for a treatment regimen comprising administering to an animal in need thereof an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable preparation of the compound of Formula I alone or in combination with another pharmaceutically active component. In some embodiments a combination of the compound of Formula I may be administered as part of a treatment regimen with quinine quinones chloroquine atovaquone proguanil clopidol pyridone pyridinol analogs e.g. clopidol primaquine amodiaquine mefloquine artemisinin methylene blue 7 chloro 10 hydroxy 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 4 dihydroacridine 1 9 2H 10H dione Floxacrine pyrimethamine sulfadoxine artemether lumefantrine Coartem dapsone chlorproguanil LAPDAP artesunate quinidine dihydroartemisinin atovaquone Malarone mixture of atovaquone and proguanil or any combination of these.

In yet another aspect the herein described compounds are formulated into pharmaceutical compositions for administering to subjects in a biologically compatible form suitable for administration in vivo.

In yet other aspects the invention provides methods for the treatment of fungal infections. By way of example these fungal infections are human or animal fungal infections such as

The present example identifies the utility of the present inventive compositions for use as crop protection agents particularly in agricultural applications such as in the preparation of pesticides and products containing pesticides for use in controlling crop loss associated with plant pathogens that are transmitted by parasites such as and and

The present example also demonstrates the utility of the present compositions as active agents for use in the treatment and or prevention of plant fungal infections such as those that currently compromise various agricultural industries. In particular the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds possess an antifungal activity that may be used to control a number of common plant pathogens that reduce crop yields.

The present example identifies the utility of the present inventive compositions for use in the agricultural industry specifically as part of a preparation for reducing controlling and or eliminating insect transmitted diseases in commercially significant crops such as in the apple industry grape industry and others.

The crop protection agents of the invention are also suitable for protecting vegetative reproduction material e.g. seeds such as fruits tubers grains or plant seedlings from animal pests. The reproductive material may be treated with the composition before the start of cultivation seeds for example being dressed before they are sown. The active ingredients of the invention can also be applied to seeds coating by either soaking the seeds in a liquid preparation of the active ingredient s or coating with a solid such as a powder or semi solid such as a gel preparation of the active ingredient s .

The composition can also be given when the reproductive material is introduced to the place of cultivation e.g. when the seeds are sown in a seed furrow. The treatment procedures for vegetative reproductive material thus treated are further objects of the invention.

Some of the plants and agricultural crops susceptible to plant pathogens and plant diseases that may be treated with the herein described alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds include several important food crops. Some of these important food crops include wheat wheat rust rye ergot peanuts aflatoxin potatoes potato late blight corn peaches brown rot rice grapes grapevine powdery mildew beans and and plants of the genus including potatoes and tomatoes late blight fungus and strawberries grey mold .

The present compositions may also be included in the management of orchard crop yields such as apple orchards to protect the crops from major fungal diseases such as scab powdery mildew and rust.

The invention in yet another aspect provides a method of enhancing agricultural crop yield and for treating plant pathogens and preventing or inhibiting plant pathogen spread and infectivity. The alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds may be used either alone or in combination with other plant pest management treatments. By way of example other fungicides that may be used in combination preparation with the presently disclosed compounds include sulfur based preparations wettable sulfur sterol inhibitors and strobilurins as well as a Bordeaux mixture combination of copper sulfate and lime used to treat late blight fungus .

By way of example the fluoro alkyl alkoxy aromatic compounds may be formulated alone or in combination with another active component such as a pyridone derivative e.g. clopidol or a structural analog of clopidol to provide a treatment for application to a plant and or agricultural crop of interest. Assessment of the relative pesticidal activity of any of the herein described compounds is identified by preparing a spray mixture containing the active ingredient at a concentration of between about 100 ppm to about 400 ppm and applying the spray mixture to the particular plant of interest.

For example with regard to potatoes any one of the compounds enumerated in Table 1 may be prepared as an aqueous emulsion mixture containing for example 400 ppm of one of the active ingredients of Table 1. The potato tubers would first be colonized with crawlers of . After about 2 weeks the potatoes will be immersed in the aqueous emulsion or a suspension spray mixture containing the 400 ppm of active ingredient. After the tubers have dried off they may be incubated in a plastic container. Evaluation may take place 10 to 12 weeks later by comparing the survival rate of the crawlers of the first secondary generation of the treated population with that of untreated control batches. The efficacy of the particular agent is thereby assesed relative to improving potatoe yield.

In another example the various active agents of Table 1 may be assesed relative to use in the management of apple yields. A significant problem associated with yield loss associated with apple orchards is . In order to provide an effective pesticide according to the present invention for the control of this particular agricultural product an aqueous emulsion spray mixture containing 400 ppm of the active ingredient may be prepared and sprayed onto a sample of apple seedlings that have previously been colonized with adult females of for about 7 days. These infected plants will be sprayed with the aqueous emulsion spray until they are dripping wet after which time they will be cultivated in a greenhouse. After 14 days they may be evaluated. This evaluation will be made by assessing the percentage reduction of the population response as determined by comparing the number of dead spider mites on the treated plants with those on the untreated plants.

The present example demonstrates the utility of the present compounds for blocking oxygen consumption by parasites. By way of example the compound atovaquone is known to block oxygen consumption by parasites. While not intending to be limited to any mechanism of action it is contemplated that some of the presently described compounds may act through inhibiting parasite growth through inhibition of the enzyme cytochrome b.

As shown in the ability of 2 methyl 3 6 6 6 trifluorohexyl 7 methoxy 4 quinolone is shown to block respiration oxygen consumption by infected red blood cells to a degree that is equivalent to atovaquone at equimolar concentrations while NAP 005 2 5 6 6 6 tetrafluoro 5 trifluoromethyl hexyloxy 1 4 naphthoquinone does not. Both of these claimed compounds exhibit ICvalues in the low nanomolar range against multidrug resistant parasites

The present example also demonstrates the utility of the present invention for providing synergistic combinations of the various anti malarial preparations described herein. By way of example such as preparation is described herein that includes a pyridine or pyridinol such as clopidol.

For example as shown in an isobolar analysis is presented of the combination of 2 methyl 3 6 6 6 trifluorohexyl 7 methoxy 4 1H quinolone and clopidol in vitro. Values below the theoretical straight line of addition are considered to be indicative of synergism. This study was performed with the multidrug resistant Dd2 strain of

The references listed below as well as all references cited in the specification are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they supplement explain provide a background for or teach a methodology techniques and or compositions employed herein.

