---

title: System for performing context-sensitive decisions about ideal communication modalities considering information about channel reliability
abstract: A system and method for identifying ideal channels for communications based on an analysis of communication channel reliability, communicating party preferences, and communicating party contexts is provided. The system attempts to optimize the utility of a communication based on inferred or directly accessed channel reliability data, communicating party preferences and communicating party contexts. Such optimization can be achieved using reliabilities, preferences and policies concerning handling the attempted contact based on a deterministic specification or through inferring reliability, context, content and task under uncertainty by employing decision-theoretic inferences. The methods may consider channels currently available as well as channels available at later times. Thus, the service can include automated rescheduling of communications based on a consideration of forecasts of reliability and availability. The approach may include the use of forecasts about the time required for a communication and the likelihood that a connection will be dropped or will lose fidelity over this period of time. The methods may also include a consideration of metadata within a standard schema that is transmitted along with a communication attempt, the metadata representing information about attributes like the potential communication channels, the identity of the contactor, the task at hand, and the context of the communicating parties. The invocation of the communication service may be performed in a variety of ways, including single button invocations, and via a communication service that is more deeply integrated with other applications and functionalities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716532&OS=07716532&RS=07716532
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07716532
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060831
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 281 547 which was filed Oct. 28 2002 entitled SYSTEM FOR PERFORMING CONTEXT SENSITIVE DECISIONS ABOUT IDEAL COMMUNICATION MODALITIES CONSIDERING INFORMATION ABUT CHANNEL RELIABILITY the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 809 142 which was filed Mar. 15 2001 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFYING AND ESTABLISHING PREFERRED MODALITIES OR CHANNELS FOR COMMUNICATIONS BASED ON PARTICIPANTS PREFERENCES AND CONTEXTS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 326 043 which was filed Jun. 4 1999 entitled A MULTI LEVEL DECISION ANALYTIC APPROACH TO FAILURE AND REPAIR IN HUMAN COMPUTER INTERACTIONS now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 490 689 on Dec. 3 2002 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a system for identifying and establishing communications policies that consider the reliability of possible communication channels as a determining factor. More particularly the present invention relates to a system for facilitating identifying optimal communication channels between contactors and contactees based on reasoning performed on deterministic and or uncertain communication channel data contactee and or contactor preferences capabilities and context both present and predicted where such predictions may be made for example by decision theoretic policies.

With the ever increasing variety of communication channels available it has become increasingly valuable to select channel s by which the utility of communications between contactees and contactors can be maximized. The utility of a communication can be measured by examining a variety of factors like cost and value. Communicating parties have available diverse communication choices that include but are not limited to computer based communication e.g. instant messaging on line chat text email voice email voice over IP VOIP collaborative editing webcam conversations telephone based communication e.g. cell phone satellite phone personal digital assistant PDA phone Internet telephony plain old telephone system POTS and face to face communication e.g. personal meeting video conferencing . Thus communicating parties are faced with the daunting task of selecting a best possible means to communicate among a plurality of communication options.

Conventionally a single channel e.g. long distance POTs telephone call communication may be routed based on factors like load but such load balancing methods typically do not account for other factors that may influence the reliability of a communication channel and thus the likelihood that the communication may be degraded. By way of illustration the likelihood that a communication will suffer degradation may depend on a factor like the duration of the communication. For example an hour long cellular telephone call may be more likely to suffer from degradation than a one minute cellular telephone call based on factors like the increased probability that the cellular phone will transit a cellular dead zone and or the increased probability that the cellular phone battery will run out of power. Conventional cellular telephone routing algorithms may account for load balancing factors but typically do not account for other factors e.g. predicted transit route predicted length that may influence the likelihood that a communication will be degraded.

Furthermore security issues introduce another parameter in selecting a communication channel. A communication that is difficult to compromise e.g. intercept decipher alter for example a 128 bit public private key encrypted email or a frequency agile multi mode encryption radio signal may be considered more reliable than one that is more easily compromised e.g. clear text email single frequency cellular call . Thus the task of communicating parties in choosing a best communication channel is even more complicated by security considerations.

Conventionally a contactor had limited means if any to determine which if any communication method s would be best to communicate with a contactee. Similarly a contactee had limited contact control methods. In view of at least the above there is a strong need in the art for a system and or methodology to facilitate selecting an optimal communication channel given a particular set of parameters.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The present invention relates to a system and method to facilitate maximizing utility of a communication based at least in part upon factoring predicted reliability of a communication channel into a utility analysis to produce a reliability based expected utility. Such maximizing may depend for example on the reliability of the communication channel preferences and context of communicating parties and in what activities if any the parties are engaged or are likely to be engaged in the future. The reliability of a communication channel may vary for example based on factors including but not limited to load time of day atmospheric conditions location of one or more of the communicating parties e.g. in the office in the car at home in the mountains at sea in flight etc. expected duration of a communication and attentional status of one or more of the communicating parties.

The reliability analysis of available communication channels can consider factors including but not limited to the likelihood that a communication will be degraded e.g. portion of a communication dropped garbled the likelihood that a communication will be disconnected and the likelihood that a communication will be compromised e.g. intercepted decrypted altered . Such analysis may consider the likelihoods at the time of the communication and at other available times. A system for factoring the predicted reliability of a communication channel into communication analysis may include components such as a channel manager and a reliability analyzer. These components are employed in a communication channel utility analysis to factor a plurality of variables e.g. channel reliability communication context communicating party preferences . The system by taking into consideration the various variables facilitates selecting an optimal communication channel from among a plurality of channels to employ at a particular state.

The channel manager analyzes respective utilities associated with available communication channels. In the analysis the channel manager also factors in context e.g. communication environment communicating party preferences communication state and information from the reliability analyzer regarding the respective reliabilities of the communication channels. The channel manager may analyze for example properties associated with a communication that include but are not limited to the available communication channels e.g. computer telephone personal the reliability of such communication channels at various times at which a communication may occur e.g. now scheduled later the preferences of the communicating parties and the context of the communicating parties.

It is noted that context can be abstracted by examining for example a communication sender the relationship of the sender to a user the time of day at which the sender is attempting to communicate the task s with which the user and or sender are engaged the age of project s to which the user and or sender are engaged the sender and or user location and so on. Thus multiple attributes concerning people including their preferences contexts tasks and priorities are analyzed and to further facilitate establishing and adapting communication policies for people.

The reliability manager analyzes reliabilities of the respective communication channels. The reliability analyzer can be employed for example to determine the likelihood that a communication channel will experience a degradation and or failure during a communication. Factors to consider in such analysis may be represented in channel data associated with the communication and include but are not limited to the expected duration of the communication the desired communication channel s the reliability history of the desired communication channel s the cost s associated with a lost connection the cost s associated with reconnecting the attentional status and activity of a party and the utility of a partially completed communication.

The system may also consider the cost s associated with a lost connection when determining along which channel s a communication should proceed. Such costs may vary depending on the identity of the parties the subject matter of the communication and the context of the parties. The costs associated with a lost connection may include but are not limited to frustration factors monetary costs opportunity costs time delay costs and embarrassment costs. Similarly the system may consider the cost s associated with reconnecting when analyzing the channels for a communication. Again such costs may vary depending on the identity of the parties the subject matter of the communication and the context of the parties. The costs associated with reconnecting may include but are not limited to monetary costs time delay costs resource consumption costs frustration costs and embarrassment costs e.g. having a company look like they are incapable of performing a desired business function in front of a prospective client .

The system may also analyze the utility of a partially completed communication. For example the goal of a first communication may be to relate a lengthy piece of highly important data between two parties where the data has no value unless it is transmitted one hundred percent intact. The utility of partially completing such a first communication is low. But the goal of a second communication may be to relate a list of small independent pieces of relatively unimportant data between two parties where each small piece of data has independent value. There is a utility in partially completing such a second communication.

Thus when determining the utility of a communication via a channel the system may consider factors including but not limited to the reliability of the channel the parties the subject matter of the communication the preferences of the communicating parties the context of the parties and the costs of dis re connecting.

In one example of the present invention the reliability analyzer includes a reliability predictor and a reliability prediction integrator. The reliability predictor generates a probability that a communication will be completed with desired transmission qualities. The reliability prediction integrator updates one or more pieces of information that are employed in selecting a channel for a communication and or updates an expected utility that was computed without regard to reliability. Thus predictions associated with the reliability of a communication can be factored into the decision to employ a certain channel.

The present invention facilitates determining optimal communication channels between contactors and contactees based on information either complete or incomplete associated with the communication channels the contactees and or the contactors. Based on the identified optimal communication channel one or more communications may be scheduled calendared and or initiated via reliable channels in real time between the contactor and contactee. The scheduled communication may rely on the current communication channel reliability communicating party context and preferences and or on predictions concerning the likelihoods that different communication channels will become available predictions concerning the reliability of such communication channels and or the likelihood that the context of the communicating parties will become more optimal. Alternatively and or additionally the invention can display communication choices predicted utilities and predicted channel reliabilities to facilitate a communicating party e.g. human computer selecting a communication channel.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention is now described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate description of the present invention.

As used in this application the term computer component is intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a computer component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be computer components. One or more computer components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a computer component may be localized on one computer and or be distributed between two or more computers.

It is to be appreciated that various aspects of the present invention employ representations of deterministic policies specified as functions or rules that take as arguments contextual information details about the nature of the participants and the content or task at hand. One example of the present invention also employs technologies associated with facilitating inference and decision making under uncertainty and optimization of expected utility and or minimization of expected costs. Thus statistical inference can be performed with models constructed by hand from data with machine learning methods or by a mixture of machine learning and human assessment. Such models can be used in conjunction with deterministic policies where depending on the context an inferential rule or deterministic rule is used. A variety of machine learning systems methodologies including Bayesian learning methods that search over alternative dependency structures and apply a score such as the Bayesian Information Criteria etc. Bayesian classifiers and other statistical classifiers including decision tree learning methods support vector machines linear and non linear regression and neural network representations can be employed to build and update inferential models.

Furthermore it is to be appreciated that although the invention is discussed in large part with respect to maximizing utility of a communication between two or more parties the invention can be employed from the viewpoint of a single communicating party so as to maximize the communication utility to the single party. Communications that may occur via channels in accordance with the present invention can include but are not limited to telephone channels e.g. POTS cellular satellite Internet facsimile channels computer channels e.g. instant messaging collaborative editing email chats paging channels radio channels television channels e.g. picture in picture information dialog and personal channels e.g. courier face to face and can be processed by the present invention. The present invention can be employed as part of a single device a cluster of devices a system and or a network for example. discuss in greater detail various architectural applications of the subject invention it is to be appreciated that such applications are merely exemplary and are not intended to exhaust the variety of applications of the subject invention.

Expected utility optimization in connection with the subject invention can be based at least in part on a variety of other factors such as for example 1 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a related activity 2 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a related activity 3 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a similar activity 4 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a similar activity 5 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently processing one or more related documents 6 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to concurrently process one or more related documents 7 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently viewing one or more related documents 8 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to concurrently view one or more related documents 9 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a shared project 10 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a shared project 11 whether two or more communicating parties are scheduled to communicate within a pre defined period of time 12 whether two or more communicating parties have communicated within a pre defined period of time 13 whether two or more communicating parties are scheduled to meet within a pre defined period of time 14 whether two or more communicating parties have met within a pre defined period of time 15 whether a communicating party has engaged in one or more pre defined activities of interest within a pre defined period of time 16 whether a communicating party is likely to engage in one or more pre defined activities of interest within a pre defined period of time 17 whether a communicating party has purchased one or more pre defined items of interest 18 whether a communicating party has registered an interest in one or more pre defined items of interest 19 the degree to which a communicating party is trusted by one or more other communicating parties.

It is to be appreciated that the aforementioned list of factors that can be employed in connection with the subject invention can be considered individually or a subset of the factors considered concurrently. Moreover it is understood that the above list is merely exemplary and should not be considered exhaustive of the variety of factors that could be considered in connection with facilitating utility optimization in connection with the subject invention.

The system includes a reliability analyzer that can be employed to analyze the reliability of the channel. The reliability analyzer can be a computer component as that term is defined herein. The reliability of the channel s along which the communication will travel may vary depending on factors including but not limited to load time of day atmospheric conditions location desired throughput desired isolation and the like. Analyses from the reliability analyzer can be shared with a channel manager that can be employed to facilitate selecting the communication channel that will maximize the utility of the communication between the communicating parties. The channel manager can be a computer component as that term is defined herein. The reliability analyzer is not limited to analyzing communications between two parties or to a single communication channel between two parties. It is to be appreciated that multiple channels and or multiple communicating parties can be treated as increased sets of alternatives that may complicate utility maximizing computations without changing the fundamental process of identifying and establishing one or more communications based on the channel reliability preferences contexts and capabilities of the communicating parties. One example analysis performed by the reliability analyzer can yield a reliability based expected utility that is based at least in part on the reliability associated with a channel.

The system increases the utility of a communication between communicating parties by employing the reliability analyzer and channel manager . The reliability analyzer analyzes the reliability of a communication channel and computes a reliability based expected utility of a communication if it employs the communication channel. The channel manager analyzes at least one of communicating party preferences and context to determine a preference based expected utility of the communication. The channel manager employs the reliability based expected utility of the communication and the preference based expected utility of the communication to facilitate determining if the communication channel maximizes the utility of the communication between the communicating parties and .

In identifying communication channels that may maximize the utility of the communication between the communicating parties the channel manager may consider context and preference information in association with the predicted reliability information provided by the reliability analyzer . Thus the channel manager can analyze a context and preferences associated with the first communicating party and a context and preferences associated with the communicating party . Such context may affect the reliability of a channel. For example if the context includes information concerning the location of the communicating party e.g. in a tunnel then the reliability of a satellite phone communication which requires line of sight may be affected. The preferences may include information concerning a desired reliability. For example a first communicating party may be ambivalent concerning the reliability of communications and may therefore be willing to accept communications of any reliability while a second communicating party may prefer to receive communications that are predicted to be at least ninety nine percent reliable. Also extrinsic data e.g. communication environment time of day weather communication content communication context can be considered by the channel manager in performing the utility analysis. It is to be appreciated that the present invention can employ metadata associated with any of the various hardware and or software components and or considered data described herein to facilitate performing a utility analysis as described herein.

Thus based on the analysis of the context and preferences of the communicating parties the predicted reliability of candidate communication channels and extrinsic data the channel manager can identify the communication channel s that will maximize the utility of a communication providing advantages over conventional systems.

Concerning utility of a communication the value of a current potential communication can be evaluated by considering a measure of the history of utility of communication attributes of the communication that can be stored as metadata e.g. intended focus of communication nature of communication channel reliability of communication channel and or combinations thereof. Such an expected utility can be computed through the use of decision models such as influence diagrams which encode a set of random variables representing key aspects of context cost and value as well as potential communication actions and overall preferences about outcomes. Such models represent deterministic variables as we as probability distributions over states based on observations or attributes associated with the communication setting and so on. In other equivalent approaches we employ Bayesian networks or other statistical inference methods and then couple the output of the probabilistic inference models with a second layer of analysis considerating preferences and employing the principles of maximum expected utility for optimization provides a useful method for computing the value of different communication actions. In one example of the present invention utility represents communication effectiveness correlated to adherence to user preferences. Such effectiveness can be measured by factors including but not limited to reliability achieved on the communication channel quantity of information content transferred quality of information content transferred and relevancy of information content transferred.

An expected utility function takes into consideration probability distributions over future outcomes and user preferences while reasoning under uncertainty. An example expected utility function can be calculated using 

Where p s d c represents the probability of achieving a future state sgiven a decision dconcerning situation c capturing communication channel parameters nature of the contactor and a context for the contactee. Each individual outcome state s s represents a possible match of preferences to related communication parameters. The function u s d represents the utility of state safter the decision dhas been made.

Assume that the present invention considers two possible utilities Uand U. Based on selecting particular communication parameters e.g. time media location the system can compute Pand P the probabilities of achieving Uand U where P 1 P. Although two utility states are identified it is to be appreciated that a greater number of utility states can be employed with the present invention. The expected utility of a decision dis then .

A high utility can be associated with for example a large amount of valuable information being transferred. A low utility can be associated with for example a small amount of valuable information being transferred. Similarly a low cost can be associated with a low drain on the attentional resources of the contactee as might be captured by a low interruptability factor e.g. user does not have to leave important meeting or shut down an application and with a low amount of hanging e.g. the number type and or importance of people and or resources left waiting for the return of the attentional resource of the user . A high cost can be associated with a significant drain on the attentional resources of the contactee as might be associated with an action of high interruptability e.g. pulling a person from an important meeting leaving many important people waiting. The utilities can take into consideration both the value and the disruptiveness of communication outcomes combining the costs and benefits in a single assessment or explicitly breaking out the cost and benefits of the communication and providing a means for coupling the two together e.g. employing an additive multi linear model summing costs and benefits after selective weighting of the separate factors .

In addition the utility of the communication can be evaluated according to formulae that consider the cost of the communication and the value of the communication as viewed from the points of view of both a sender and a receiver. An exemplary formula can take the form utility cost value cost value 

The utility calculations may weight the costs and or benefits to the contactors and or contactees differently. By way of illustration the value can be computed via a combination function f of other functions g and h that operate separately on the costs and the benefits to the contactor the sender and the contactee recipient of the initial communication as follows utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

By way of further illustration consider a case where the value is a function of the difference of the costs and the benefits to the contactor and the contactee as follows utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

One example of such a difference function employs a multi linear weighted combination of the separate terms for contactee and contactor utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

For such a formulation diminishing wto zero removes the preferences of the contactor and makes communication decisions depend on the preferences of the contactee. Diminishing wto zero makes communication decisions depend on the preferences of the contactor. Such adjustments to the weights which can lead to diminutions and or enhancements of the relative importance of the contactor and or contactee costs and or benefits. Similarly weights can be affected by context e.g. time location activity . The cost to the sender cost can be analyzed by examining a set of cost factors cost a b c . . . that can include but are not limited to the cost of making a connection instantly the cost of making a connection at a later time the cost of employing a particular channel and or set of channels and the cost of not making a connection where the costs may include actual costs and or expected costs. Such costs can be measured by actual and or opportunity cost in time communication resources and or human resources.

The value to the sender value can also be analyzed by examining a set of value factors value m n o . . . that can include but are not limited to the value of making an instant connection the value of making a later connection and the value of employing a particular channel and or set of channels where the values can include actual values and or expected values. The values can similarly be measured by actual and or opportunity cost of time communication resources dollars and or human resources. The expected costs and or expected values can be computed through deterministic processing and or reasoning under uncertainty.

The cost to the receiver cost can be analyzed by examining a set of cost factors cost x y z . . . that can include but are not limited to the cost of making a connection instantly the cost of making a connection at a later time the cost of employing a particular channel and or set of channels and the cost of not making a connection where the costs can include actual costs and or expected costs. Such costs and or values can be measured by actual cost in time money human resources and or opportunity cost in time money human resources and or communication resources for example.

The value to the receiver value can also be analyzed by examining a set of value factors value p q r . . . that can include but are not limited to the value of making an instant connection the value of making a later connection and the value of employing a particular channel and or set of channels where the values can include actual values and or expected values. The expected costs and or expected values can be computed through reasoning under uncertainty. The costs can vary over time thus a first set of costs costTcomputed for a first time Tmay not be equal to a second set of costs costT computed for a second time T. Similarly the values can vary over time and a first set of values valueTmay not be equal to a second set of values valueT. Thus rather than producing a single value the system can produce a set of expected utilities for the communications via a plurality of communication channels.

While the reliability analyzer and the channel manager are illustrated as separate blocks it is to be appreciated that the reliability analyzer and the channel manager may be implemented as a single apparatus program and or process and that such unified apparatus program and or process may reside in a single computer and or process and or be distributed across two or more computers and or processes. In one example of the present invention the channel manager is implemented as a single process executing on a single processor and the reliability analyzer is implemented as a single process residing on the same processor with communications between the processes carried out via various interprocess communication mechanisms e.g. messaging function calls shared memory signals interrupts . In another example of the present invention the channel manager is implemented as a collection of threads that may each be associated with separate processes residing on multiple and or parallel processors with the reliability analyzer similarly implemented as a collection of threads that may each be associated with separate processes residing on multiple and or parallel processors. In one example of the present invention where the reliability analyzer and the channel manager are implemented as processes computer executable components implementing such processes can be stored on a computer readable medium to facilitate loading such executable components into a computer for example.

In one example of the present invention in addition to identifying communication channels that maximize the utility of a communication the channel manager performs actions including but not limited to scheduling a communication e.g. acquiring network resources calendaring a communication displaying information concerning a potential communication channel e.g. via a user interface displayed to the parties and initiating a communication e.g. ringing the phone at all the communicating party locations .

The reliability predictor can consider various factors associated with the communication in predicting the reliability of the communication. One factor that is considered in predicting the reliability of a communication is the length of the communication. For example a longer communication may be more subject to degradation due to more opportunities for failure. For some communications the length may be known. By way of illustration the length of an email message or a file transfer may be determined. However for other communications the length may not be known e.g. the length of a phone call may not be pre determined although it may be inferred . Thus the length of the communication may be predicted for example by analyzing historical data associated with previous communications between the communicating parties that occurred via the channels being considered.

The historical data may not be stored directly but may be represented for example in information stored in one or more data fields e.g. likelihood that phone communication will exceed five minutes likelihood that email communication will include more than one megabyte of data . The duration of the communication may depend on factors like the parties the subject matter of the communication and the time of day for example. By way of illustration two doctors may typically have lengthy daytime phone conversations concerning the treatment of a patient but may typically send short emails concerning scheduling a time to jog.

Data stored in the channel data store can include but is not limited to reliability history of the communication channel reliability history of a current communication communication length communication type mean time between failure of the communication channel average failure duration of the communication channel average percent degradation of the communication channel atmospheric conditions scheduled communication channel maintenance and scheduled communication channel downtime. Such data can be analyzed in connection with status information gathered concerning the channel. For example such status data can include data like channel load and the like.

In one example of the present invention the reliability predictor fashions its output as a numerical value indicating the likely reliability of a communication along an analyzed channel. By way of illustration the reliability predictor may score the reliability as an integer between zero and one hundred percent likelihood that the communication will remain undegraded. By way of further illustration the reliability predictor may score the reliability as a real number between 0.0 and 1.0 that indicates the predicted degradation. In another example of the present invention the reliability predictor may produce a likelihood function that relates the likelihood of achieving a desired level of reliability. For example a function f reliability may return the likelihood that the desired reliability will be achieved and or maintained. In another example of the present invention the reliability predictor may provide separate information on the likelihood that a connection will be dropped and the likelihoods that there will be different variables losses of fidelity of the communication channel. Such likelihoods can be made functions of the duration t of the communication. The reliability predictor may indicate that the probability that a connection will be lost may grow significantly as a function of the duration of a communication.

Since the channel data upon which the reliability predictor operates may not be deterministic the reliability predictor may be required to reason under uncertainty. Thus the likelihood function Lf may take the form of a probability or probability distribution over reliability reliability 

Similarly since the party data upon which the reliability predictor operates may not be deterministic the reliability predictor may be required to reason further under uncertainty. Thus the likelihood function Lf may take the form reliability E 

It is noted that the reliability predictor can be decomposed into separate predictors of the likelihood of a call being dropped or different losses of fidelity occurring. Thus the present invention may explicitly encode and employ probability distributions over variables representing the likelihoods that there will be a loss of fidelity or loss of connection and condition these variables on duration t of the communication. The probability that a connection will be lost may grow significantly as a function of the duration of a communication. This information can be employed in a decision model that considers the probability distribution over the duration of a communication given the identity of the contactor the expected goals of the communication and other aspects of context of the communication.

Given the rich set of data available concerning the channel and the communicating parties e.g. context preferences the reliability predictor in one example of the present invention predicts the reliability of the channel using a formula channel  type  length  history Context1 Context2 

One example formula f CH type CM length CH history Context cp1 Context cp2 is channel  type 1  length 2  history 3 Context1 4 Context2 5 12345 

The r factor component generates the expected reliability based on the factor and the weighting factors w1 through w5 apply different weights to each factor where such weights can be configured and programmed to reflect the relative importance of each r factor .

While two communicating parties are modeled in the formula R channel it is to be appreciated that communications between a greater number of communicating parties can be analyzed with the present invention. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that the formula R channel and other formulae described herein are illustrative and are not intended to be limiting. Given the reliability prediction from the formula R channel one example of the present invention may further predict the likelihood of achieving that reliability by a formula like channel 

Since data concerning the contexts and or preferences may also be inferred the reliability predictor may also predict the likelihood of achieving a reliability by a formula like channel 

The reliability predictor may alter the predicted reliability result based on the history of the current communication. For example an initial prediction that a cellular telephone call has an acceptable reliability may be changed if the attempted communication via the cellular telephone has been dropped three times in less than five minutes. Thus the reliability analyzer may re evaluate the reliability and determine that a text message sent to the pager of the recipient may produce a higher utility. Furthermore such updates and or overrides may be employed in ongoing machine learning employed to improve the performance of the system .

While the reliability predictor and the reliability integrator are illustrated as separate blocks it is to be appreciated that the reliability predictor and the reliability integrator may be implemented as a single apparatus program and or process and that such unified apparatus program and or process may reside in a single computer and or process and or be distributed across two or more computers and or processes. Furthermore computer executable components of the system may be stored on a computer readable medium.

The inferred data can include but is not limited to inferred channel data inferred data associated with a first communicating party and inferred data associated with a second communicating party. Again it is to be appreciated that communications involving a greater number of communicating parties can be analyzed by the present invention. It is to be appreciated that the channel manager can be employed in connection with the system as another embodiment of the subject invention.

Referring now to a system that includes a channel manager is illustrated. The channel manager identifies communication channels that facilitate optimizing the utility of a communication between a contactor and a contactee . While one contactor and one contactee are illustrated it is to be appreciated that the system facilitates identifying optimal communication channels between two or more communicating parties e.g. communication groups . It is to be further appreciated that the parties to the communication may include human parties apparatus and or electronic processes. Thus as employed herein the terms contactee and contactor include groups of contactors and groups of contactees.

The communication may be achieved through a variety of channels that exhibit a variety of reliabilities. The channels include but are not limited to telephone channels computer channels fax channels paging channels and personal channels. The telephone channels include but are not limited to POTS telephony cellular telephony satellite telephony and Internet telephony. The computer channels can include but are not limited to email collaborative editing instant messaging network meetings calendaring and devices employed in home processing and or networking. The personal channels include but are not limited to videoconferencing messengering and face to face meeting. Data concerning a current channel e.g. a phone that is busy can be analyzed as can data concerning the likelihood that the channel may become available e.g. phone will no longer be busy .

A channel manager is employed to identify and determine which channels can be employed for the communication between the contactor and the contactee . To facilitate identifying the channels and their associated reliabilities and to further facilitate determining which of the channels should be employed for the communication and at what point in time the communication should be attempted the channel manager has access to a channel data store a contactor data store and a contactee data store . The contactor data store the channel data store and the contactee data store can store data in data structures including but not limited to one or more lists arrays tables databases stacks heaps linked lists and data cubes. The contactor data store the channel data store and the contactee data store can reside on one physical device and or may be distributed between two or more physical devices e.g. disk drives tape drives memory units . Further the contactor data store the channel data store and the contactee data store may reside in one logical device and or data structure. Similarly the channel manager can be distributed between two or more cooperating processes and or reside in one physical or logical device e.g. computer process .

The contactor data store and the contactee data store may hold for example current state information predictions concerning future states and costs associated with delaying a communication to points in time associated with the predictions concerning future states. Such costs may be related to re dis connecting processing undertaken if a channel degrades to the point that reconnecting is required. The contactee data store may include information concerning the location of the contactee e.g. in a tunnel underwater the current attentional status of the contactee e.g. in conversation on the phone concerning an assigned task and may also include information concerning predicted attentional states of the contactee at one or more future points in time e.g. 25 likelihood contactee in same state in five minutes 50 likelihood contactee in lower attentional state in ten minutes . If a party is in a high attentional state focused on a particular channel e.g. computer then that channel may have increased reliability while other channels may have reduced reliability.

The channel data store may be populated at least in part by a reliability analyzer and or a reliability integrator. While one communication is illustrated it is to be appreciated that one or more communication channels may be employed in methods including but not limited to parallel serial and simultaneous communication between the contactor and the contactee . By way of illustration the contactor and the contactee may communicate by telephone at the same time that they are sharing a document via collaborative editing over a computer network communication channel. Additionally and or alternatively if the predicted reliability of a first channel is below a pre determined level e.g. fifty percent then a second backup channel to which the communication may be transferred may be acquired in anticipation of potential degradation.

The channel manager may examine data e.g. contactor data channel data contactee data and find information sufficient to perform deterministic calculations for identifying the optimal channel for the communication . The deterministic calculations may be facilitated by applying one or more preference based rules based on the sufficient information. By way of illustration if a first party is attempting to telephone a second party then the present invention may display the current best possible means ranked by likelihood of reliably reaching the second party at a desired cost and utility given the context of the second party. By way of further illustration if a contactor listed in a contactee s people class store as a critical colleague tries to reach the contactee the present invention may route that contactor to the most reliable voice enabled device regardless of cost or to the contactee s proxy to maximize utility. Thus reliability is considered alongside preferences and contexts in selecting channels and or rules for selecting channels.

Additionally and or alternatively the present invention directs communications via automated methods that identify communication actions that have the highest value or highest expected value given uncertainties in variables under consideration. Several formulations of decision problems are feasible depending on the variables under consideration the preferences being represented and the principal agent or owner of the decision. Identifying the optimal communication channel can include considering the benefits of establishing the communication at a first point in time with the communication channels available at that point in time and considering the costs of delaying establishing the communication to a second point in time when other communication channels may be available. In a general formulation of the problem the present invention considers a communications value function that returns a value for each communication channel or subset of channels under consideration or an ordering over communication channels in terms of acceptability of the channel or subset of channels. Value channel reliability of channel preferences contactee contactor organization context contactee contactor 

where reliability of channel includes factors like mean time between failures average failure duration average signal degradation and the like. One example for the formula f is Value channel reliability of channel 1 preferences contactee contactor organization 1 context contactee contactor 1 111 

It is to be appreciated that data associated with the reliability of the channel the contexts and the preferences may be stored in one or more formats including but not limited to an XML schema.

The channel manager may discover that incomplete information is available. Thus the channel manager may be uncertain concerning certain data points involved in calculations for identifying the optimal channel for the communication . Thus the channel manager may be required to reason under this uncertainty. In one example aspect of the present invention the channel manager may require a value associated with the location of the contactee which is employed to predict the reliability of a cellular telephone communication. But for one sample calculation no such value may be found in the contactee data store . Thus the channel manager may rely on one or more conditional probabilities associated with the contactee location based on information like time of day day of the week and current task.

In general there may be uncertainty concerning communication channels preferences and one or more parameters employed to model a context. In this situation a probability distribution over the different states of each variable can be inferred and expected values for each channel can be computed. By way of illustration if there is uncertainty concerning aspects of the reliability of the communication channel the probability distribution here represented abstractly given evidence E observed about the channel can be represented Expected value Channel channelreliability preferences contactee contactor organization context contactee contactor 

Similarly if there is uncertainty concerning aspects of the context of the contactee the probability distribution given additional evidence E observed about the context can be represented Expected value Channel channelreliability preferences contactee contactor organization context of contactee context of contactor 

The present invention may order the channels by assigned expected value and attempt to create a connection or to advise the contactor and or contactee concerning the best connection. While this expected value can be employed to initially identify the channel that is predicted to maximize the utility of the communication in one example of the present invention the contactee will be presented with options concerning the communication. The contactee reaction to the options will then determine the channel that is selected for the communication . The reactions to the options can be employed in machine learning that facilitates adapting the channel manager .

Considering now more specific examples of the use of expected utility before reliability has been factored in a particular basic formulation of decision making under uncertainty in the context of the preferences of the contactee is captured by Equation 1 

C is the identity of the contactor typically linked to a class of person e.g. critical associate previously replied to family unknown .

Thus in an example aspect of the present invention the conditional probability p context E that the contactee has a certain context given the evidence E is employed in conjunction with the utility function u to determine the ideal communication actions that can be taken to maximize the utility of the communication between the contactor and the contactee .

Considering the use of expected utility where the reliability of a channel is analyzed leads to Equation 1 .

Thus in an example aspect of the present invention the conditional probability p reliabilityA E that the channel has a certain reliability given the evidence E is employed to maximize the utility of the communication .

The basic formulation for identifying optimal communication channels can be extended by introducing uncertainty about the context of the contactor which adds the summing noted in equation 2 to the uncertainty calculations of equation 1. The particular communication action and or channel selected for the initial contact by the contactor is represented as A.

Similarly equation 2 can be extended by introducing uncertainty about reliability which leads to equation 2 .

The contactor and contactee contexts represent rich sets of deterministic or uncertain variables. Data associated with automated assessments and or directly marked indications of urgency or importance in the communications can also be evaluated in identifying optimal communication channels. The contextual variables can be treated as explicit deterministic or probabilistic factors in the optimization. For example mcan represent the channels available to the contactor and thus equation 3 considers combinations of channels available to the contactor .

Thus the system can in various example aspects account for the preferences contexts and capabilities of the contactor and or the contactee and the reliability of a channel where information concerning the contexts may be incomplete thus requiring reasoning under uncertainty to identify the likely optimal communication channel.

The present invention can also compare the best communication option available now with the best communication option that will be available later and update the value of the communication for the losses based in delays in communication and potential gains or losses based on changes in disruptiveness if the communication should come at the later time t when the contactee is in a different state e.g. more available or less available . Such comparison can be captured by equation four 

Thus decision theoretic formulae like those described in equations 1 through 4 are employed to produce one or more expected utilities for one or more sets of contactors and or contactees. In one example aspect of the present invention a communication is automatically initiated scheduled and or calendared based on such information. But in another aspect of the present invention information concerning those expected utilities is presented to one or more parties. By way of illustration a contactor is presented with a list of communications with high utilities determined in accordance with the preferences of the contactee. The contactor then selects from the list.

While one communication between one contactor and one contactee is illustrated it is to be appreciated that a greater number of communications between a similar or greater number of contactors and or contactees can be identified by the present invention. By way of illustration multiple communications between two communicating parties can be identified by the system e.g. duplicate messages sent simultaneously by email and pager .

Referring now to a system for identifying optimal communications based on the predicted reliability of a communication channel and the preferences and context of the parties engaged in a communication is illustrated. The communication that is identified by a channel manager may depend at least in part on one or more sets of data concerning communication channels channel reliabilities contactors and or contactees for example. One possible data set a communication channel data set concerns the available communication channels and associated predicted reliabilities. The available communication channels can include but are not limited to email of various priorities telephone POTS cellular satellite Internet paging runners couriers video conferencing face to face meeting instantaneous collaborative editing delayed posting collaborative editing picture in picture television home device activation e.g. turning on lights in the study ringing the telephone with a distinctive pattern and so on. A communication channel may not be a static entity and thus information concerning the reliability state capacity availability cost etc. of communication channels can change. Thus the communication channel data set can contain current reliability and state information and or data to facilitate making predictions concerning future reliability state capacity availability cost etc. associated with one or more communication channels. The communication channel data set may be populated by a reliability predictor and or reliability prediction integrator for example.

The location of a contactee can determine which communication channels if any are available. For example a programmer may have collaborative editing phone email pager video conferencing and face to face communications available at her office may have phone face to face and email available while in her home office may only have satellite phone available while on vacation and may have no real time capacity while in the shower or asleep. The current task of the contactee can also determine which communication channels if any are available and most reliable. For example if the programmer is currently on the phone then the phone may not be available. Predictions concerning the likelihood that the phone will become available can be employed by the system in determining the optimal channel for the communication. Thus rather than sending an email at a first point in time e.g. while the phone is busy and the email may be ignored making the email less reliable the present invention may schedule a real time phone call at a second later point in time when it is likely that the programmer will be off the phone and attentive to another phone call making that telephone communication more reliable.

The channel manager may also have available another set of data referred to as the contactee data . The contactee data may include information related to hardware software contactee task being performed contactee attention status contactee context data and contactee preference data for example. By way of illustration the hardware data may include information related to what hardware is available to the contactee what hardware is being employed by the contactee e.g. desktop laptop PDA reliability history of that hardware the capabilities of that hardware e.g. enough memory and communication bandwidth for videoconferencing the cost of employing that hardware and the state s in which that hardware is currently functioning e.g. online offline . The hardware data may also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of hardware will become available and the likelihood that an initially reliable piece of hardware e.g. fully charged laptop may become unreliable e.g. battery runs low .

The software data may include information related to what software is available to the contactee the reliability history of that software what software is currently being employed by the contactee e.g. which word processor is being used to edit the speech the capabilities of that software e.g. allows collaborative editing and the state s in which that software is currently functioning e.g. running and active running but inactive . The software data may also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of software will become available and that an initially reliable piece of software e.g. single browser session may become less reliable e.g. one hundred concurrent browser sessions run on the same laptop computer .

The contactee data may also contain preference data concerning the preferences of the contactee. The preference data can include data concerning how the contactee prefers to be contacted including desired reliability with those preferences varying over time with respect to various contactors and various topics of communication. For example the programmer may initially allow communications from a large group of persons concerning a project. The programmer may also establish preferences that allow her supervisor to communicate with her with a best effort at real time telephony at all times up to the deadline for delivering the project. But the programmer may gradually restrict the group of people from whom she is willing to accept real time communications as the deadline approaches and she may further restrict the means by which such people can communicate. In the last days before the deadline the programmer may be closed to all real time communications except in person communications with her supervisor and telephone based emergency medical information concerning family members for example.

The contactee preference data can include data concerning but not limited to the desired level of reliability for certain communications preferences concerning the time of day for communicating e.g. early morning business hours evening late night sleeping hours the time of the week for communicating e.g. Monday through Friday Weekend Holiday Vacation identity of contactors e.g. employer employees critical colleague colleague peers nuclear family extended family close friends friends acquaintances others hardware currently available or available within a time horizon of a communication attempt e.g. desktop laptop home computer software e.g. email word processing calendaring and interruptability e.g. do not interrupt while focused on work only interrupt while not focused for example. While six preferences are identified in the preceding sentence it is to be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of preferences may be employed in accordance with the present invention.

The contactee data may also include a context data . The context data is generally related to observations about the contactee. For example observations concerning the type of activity in which the contactee is involved e.g. on task not on task location of the contactee e.g. office home car shower calendar e.g. appointment status appointment availability history of communications with other party e.g. have replied to email in the past have spoken to on the telephone recently the utility of the interaction the duration of the interaction background ambient noise at current location number of hours at work that day and attentional status e.g. high focus focus light focus conversation with another person light activity may be stored in the context data . Such context data may affect the reliability of a communication. For example as the hours worked by a contactee increases beyond certain thresholds e.g. 10 hours 15 hours 20 hours the reliability of any communication with that contactee may suffer. While seven observations are listed in the preceding sentence it is to be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of observations may be stored in the context data .

On some occasions the context data may be incomplete e.g. video analysis data unavailable because video camera broken . Thus the channel manager may need to reason concerning the optimal communication while relying on such incomplete data. Thus the contactee data may also include information to facilitate producing one or more probabilities associated with a missing data element. By way of illustration the contactee data may contain information operable to predict the likelihood that the contactee is in a high attentional state even though gaze tracking information is unavailable.

The contactee data may further include information concerning the long term and or acute dynamically changing communication needs of the contactee. By way of illustration the contactee may need to hear from a certain colleague via the most reliable means possible within the next twenty four hours. By way of further illustration to prevent a contactor from intentionally under communicating e.g. leaving an insecure email when the contactee desires a secure voice communication the contactee may require that contacts from the contactor be made in a certain way within X units of time of notification that the contactor desires communication.

the contactee data is seen to contribute to the utility function u through the contextcomponent which can include the contactee context data discussed above.

In addition to the contactee data employed in determining the optimal communication data concerning the contactor may also be employed. The contactor data can include hardware software context preference and communication needs data substantially similar to that available for the contactee but different in that it is prepared from the point of view of the contactor .

In addition to the contactee data employed in determining the optimal communication data concerning the contactor may also be employed. The contactor data may include hardware software context data preference data and communication needs data similar to that available for the contactee but different in that it is prepared from the point of view of the contactor.

The present invention is not limited to communications between two parties or to a single communication channel between two parties. It is to be appreciated that multiple channels and or multiple communicating parties can be treated as increased sets of alternatives that may complicate utility maximizing computations without changing the fundamental process of identifying and establishing one or more communications based on the reliability preferences contexts and capabilities of the communicating parties.

The channel manager may include several computer components responsible for performing portions of the functionality of the channel manager . For example the channel manager may include a preference resolver . The preference resolver can examine the contactee preference data and the contactor preference data to find correlations between the two sets of data. In one example of the present invention information concerning the correlations is stored in a resolved preference data. For group communications the preference resolver may examine multiple sets of preference data to find correlations between the preferences.

By way of illustration for a communication between two parties the preference resolver may determine that both parties would prefer to communicate at a high level of reliability for communications associated with a first task. Similarly the preference resolver may determine that the contactee would prefer to communicate by collaborative editing and phone for communications concerning a particular document while the contactor would prefer to communicate only by telephone. Thus the preference resolver may produce data or initiate processing that assigns values to the correlations between the contactee preferences and the contactor preferences. In one example aspect of the present invention the preferences of the contactee are given more weight and thus if the contactor attempted a communication at a lower level of reliability than preferred concerning the document about which the contactee desired to communicate then the preference resolver may produce data or initiate processing that would make it more likely that the contactor would communicate by a more reliable channel.

In another example aspect of the present invention the preferences of the contactor are given priority over the preferences of the contactee. By way of illustration when a human contactor is attempting to communicate with an electronic contactee the preferences of the contactor may be considered more important and thus the preference resolver may produce values or initiate processing that makes it more likely that the preferences of the contactor are observed. In another example aspect of the present invention the preference resolver may produce a list of potential communication channels ranked on their responsiveness to the preferences.

The channel manager may also include a context analyzer . The context analyzer can examine the contactee context data and the contactor context data to find correlations between the two sets of data. In one example of the present invention information concerning the correlations is stored in an analyzed context data. For group communications the context analyzer may examine multiple sets of context data to extract information concerning the contexts. By way of illustration for a communication between two parties the context analyzer may determine that the contactee context is such that reliable real time communications are not immediately available but there is an X likelihood that communications with a desired reliability level will be available at a point of time Tin the future and an X likelihood that such communications will be available at a point of time Tin the future. Further the context analyzer may determine that although the contactor has requested real time telephony the context of the contactor is such that email communication may optimize utility e.g. 128 bit public private key encryption . For example the context of the contactor may include information concerning the computer security of the contactor e.g. dialed in to a public service provider on an insecure server . The context analyzer may determine that the network security level is not conducive to optimizing utility by unencrypted email e.g. too easy to hack and thus may produce values and or initiate processing that will make it more likely that the contactor will be required to encrypt the message. Similar to processing performed by the preference resolver the context analyzer may in different examples of the system weight the context of the contactee more than the context of the contactor or vice versa.

the context analyzer performs processing associated with the utility function u and its analysis of the contextand the context.

The channel manager may also include a channel analyzer . The channel analyzer is employed to analyze information received from a reliability integrator for example. The channel analyzer produces data concerning the current availability of a communication channel and or the likelihood of the channel becoming available. In one example of the present invention such data is stored in a communication channel data. The channel analyzer also examines one or more channels that the contactor specified for the communication and or one or more channels that the contactee listed as preferences in the contactee preference data for example. The channel analyzer also examines currently available channels as determined by location information associated with the contactee and channels that may become available based on the activity of the contactee . For example if the contactee is currently driving home as determined by GPS and schedule for example then the channel analyzer examines current cellular channels and additionally examines the channels available at the home of the contactee . Thus the channel analyzer facilitates producing data and or initiating processing that makes it more likely that a desired channel is employed when determining the optimal communication channel s for the communication between the contactor and the contactee . Thus examining equation 1 

the channel analyzer performs processing associated with the utility function u and its analysis of the contactor channels Aand the contactee channels A.

The channel manager may also include a communication channel selector . Once the ideal communication actions A have been identified the communication channel selector may undertake processing to connect the contactor and the contactee through the identified optimal communication channel s . For example if the optimal communication channel is identified as being 128 bit public private key encrypted email then the communication channel selector may initiate an email composing process for the contactor e.g. email screen on computer voice to email converter on cell phone email composer on two way digital pager and forward the composed email to the most appropriate email application for the contactee based on the identified optimal communication channel. For example the communication channel selector may forward the email through the most secure channel s possible based on routing tables available to the contactor hardware and software. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the system does not include a communication channel selector relying instead on contactor and or contactee actions for example to establish the communication.

It is to be appreciated that the preference resolver the context analyzer the channel analyzer and the communication channel selector are computer components as the term is defined herein.

The contactee may have established preferences that indicate that for communications from a first group of contactors e.g. known political malcontents the contactee would prefer email and that the least reliable means are acceptable. Similarly the contactee may have established preferences that indicate that for communications from a second group of contactors e.g. known top campaign contributors the contactee would prefer real time phone communications via the most reliable telephone available at the time. By way of further illustration the contactee may have established preferences that indicate that for communications from a third group of contactors e.g. collaborating legislative authors that the contactee would prefer both a real time phone call and a shared computer screen displaying the document at a point concerning which the contactor wishes to communicate where the collaborative editing session has a desired level of security to frustrate hackers.

Given this set of preferences communications attempted from a contactor may take a different form than the contactor would prefer. But since the attention of the contactee is the resource that is being accessed for certain groups that resource will be sparely provided while for other groups it will be generously provided depending on the preferences of the contactee and the identity of the contactor.

The preferences of the contactee are not the only data points that are evaluated by the present invention when identifying the optimal communication channel for establishing a communication between the contactor and the contactee. For example although the contactee may prefer an encrypted email from a collaborating programmer concerning a new compression algorithm the collaborating programmer may not have available the public key required to encrypt the case. Thus the programmer who desires to contact the contactee may be informed by the present invention after it analyzes the preferences and the capabilities of the parties of the public key and may be presented with an encrypted email dialog.

The preferences and potential communication channel reliability of the contactee may depend on where the contactee is located. Similarly the capabilities of the contactee may depend on where the contactee is located. By way of illustration at the office the contactee may have Ethernet access to a virtual private network hosted on secure mirrored servers. But at home the contactee may only have 56K dial up access via a public load affected insecure network. Thus while at work the most reliable channel for communicating with the contactee may be via the virtual private network while at home the most reliable means may be via telephone. Thus the present invention is able to examine the context of the contactee which includes the location of the contactee to determine capabilities.

A channel manager may also consider the value of delaying a communication and rescheduling it for a later time. Thus the channel manager may scan channel schedules e.g. rolling brownouts planned network maintenance time load predictions party schedules e.g. online calendars and inferred availability information or may establish private dialogs with potential participants to determine whether instant communication is required or whether a subsequently scheduled communication is acceptable. For example a tornado warning must be distributed as soon as possible preferably by every possible communication means regardless of reliability while the scores of the test match between Great Britain and Bermuda may be delayed until a time when the utility based on cost value and other factors may be maximized.

The present invention includes methods for predicting the likelihood of when communication channels may be available where such likelihoods can be employed in scheduling group meetings where the utility of the group experience of the n participants n being an integer is maximized. For example schedules for communication channels and calendars for participants can be examined to determine and or infer times at which the participants are likely to be available to share in suitably reliable channels. In other cases there may be automated analysis about the best way to engage in a group meeting when a subset of participants will not have access to channels with preferred reliabilities. In such situations a decision may be made to exclude some members and or to restrict the subject matter of the communications for example.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the present invention will be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the present invention is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may in accordance with the present invention occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies may employ additional blocks not illustrated herein. Where the methodologies can be programmed into a series of computer executable instructions such instructions may be available on a computer readable medium.

A channel manager performing the method can consider the optimization of a measure of priority or value from various points of view. For example if the attentional resources of the contactee are considered of higher value than the attentional resources of the contactor then the channel manager may weigh the preferences of the contactee more heavily. Alternatively and or additionally one or more policies may be established according to the policies of an organization that in addition to considering the preferences of contactees and contactors consider the preferences of the organization.

Thus a method employed by the channel manager considers whether the selected communication satisfies a set of polices specified primarily by the contactee s and secondarily that of the contactor s concerning communications where such preferences are considered in connection with the predicted reliability of the available communication channels. In a general formulation of this method given communication channel reliabilities communication and collaboration preferences expressed as utility functions beliefs about context content and communications expressed as probability distributions and a set of decision alternatives concerning communications the channel manager will identify the course s of action that maximize the expected utility of the communication.

Thus at communication channel data is analyzed. Such communication channel data can include but is not limited to the reliability history of the communication channel the reliability history of a current communication a communication length a communication type the mean time between failure of the communication channel the average failure duration of the communication channel the average percent degradation of the communication channel atmospheric conditions associated with the communication channel scheduled communication channel maintenance and scheduled communication channel downtime.

At a determination is made concerning whether any communication channel data values are missing. If the determination at is YES then at processing may be undertaken to infer the missing values. For example if no communication type is specified and the communication is between an air traffic controller and a pilot then an inference may be made concerning the communication type e.g. air traffic control instruction .

At contactee data is analyzed. The contactee data can include but is not limited to context data and preference data. At a determination is made concerning whether any contactee data values are missing. If the determination at is YES then at processing may be performed to infer the missing values. For example if the location of the contactee is not determined then an inference may be made based on the day of the week and the time of day e.g. Monday morning 9 30 a.m. programmer likely in office .

At contactor data is analyzed. The contactor data can include but is not limited to context data and preference data. At a determination is made concerning whether any contactor data values are missing. If the determination at is YES then at one or more inferences may be made concerning the contactor data. By way of illustration if the communication length is not known then the identity of the contactor may be employed to determine the predicted communication length based for example on the historical average length of communications from the contactor. At the determined and inferred data values are analyzed to produce the determined expected utility of the communication.

Turning now to a flow chart illustrates a method for identifying an optimal communication channel between two or more communicating parties where the reliability of the communication channel s along which the communication s will travel is considered as a determining factor. At general initializations occur. Such initializations can include but are not limited to identifying potential communication channels allocating memory establishing pointers establishing data communications acquiring resources setting variables and displaying process activity.

At data including but not limited to contactor data and contactee data is analyzed. The contactor data and the contactee data can include but is not limited to context data and preference data. The context data can include observed data e.g. data gathered by watching the party and or observing the environment of the party . The context data can include but is not limited to application data e.g. which applications are being employed user data e.g. the identity of the party and party capability data e.g. hearing challenged sight challenged typing challenged . Such context data may affect the reliability of a channel. By way of illustration if the context indicates that a party is in an area where there is a high amount of RF radio frequency interference then the reliability of radio and or cellular communications may be downgraded leading to a preference for land line communications.

The preference data refers to how the party would like the communication to be achieved. The preference data includes but is not limited to desired reliability level time data location data task data goal data and communication needs data. In addition to the contactor and contactee preference data there may be organizational preference data. For example when both a contactor and contactee belong to the same organization e.g. company university fraternity then the contactor preferences and the contactee preferences may be blended together in accordance with organizational policies.

The contactor data and the contactee data may include information describing current conditions and information that facilitates predicting future conditions. For example a phone system may currently be under a great load e.g. five minutes after earthquake but data concerning phone usage patterns may be analyzed to facilitate determining the likelihood that that phone will be available at a point of time in the future e.g. twenty four hours after earthquake .

The analysis of can model utilities that consider the relationships between contactor and contactee preferences. For example if both parties prefer real time telephone communications then there may be a high utility to arranging real time telephony but if one party prefers email and another party prefers video conferencing then real time communications may not be preferred. In addition to blending the contactor preference data with the contactee preference data there may be blending with organization preference data. For example when both a contactor and contactee belong to the same organization then the contactor preferences and the contactee preferences may be blended together in accordance with organization policies. For example although neither the contactor nor the contactee typically encrypts email the organization may prefer communications between members to be encrypted and thus the present invention facilitates implementing such desired reliability levels.

The present invention facilitates using multiple decision making methods where the best method is selected in different situations. For example one decision may be made using simple priority rules another by a policy that takes as input key aspects of the communication context the contactee s preferences and the context of the contactee and or contactor. In another case a decision may be made employing decision theoretic reasoning concerning the value of the communication given a consideration of the uncertainties about the context. In addition the decisions can be made sensitive to dates and times considering specific assertions about particular time horizons to guide communications. Thus at one or more rules may be selected from a set of possible rules where the rules can be employed to determine conditional expected utilities. For example given a large set of communication channels and or preferences a first set of rules may be selected but given a small set of communication channels and or preferences a second set of rules may be selected. The rules may be selected on other parameters including but not limited to the number of matching preferences the number of matching capabilities the nature and quality of the contexts the type and number of communications requested and the time critical nature of the desired communication. The rules may have been specified by the contactee for example. By way of illustration contactees can specify groups of people and attributes concerning the nature of the contact and rules for communicating given the context e.g. time task goals location contactor .

At the rules selected at are employed to determine one or more conditional expected utilities for the candidate communication channels. By determining a set of conditional expected utilities that include both immediately available channels and channels predicted to be available at a point of time in the future the present invention facilitates optimizing the utility of the communication thus providing improvements over conventional systems.

At the expected reliability of the candidate communication channels for which conditional expected utilities were computed at is computed. Such expected reliability may consider data including but not limited to the reliability history of the communication channel the reliability history of a current communication a communication length a communication type the mean time between failure of the communication channel the average failure duration of the communication channel the average percent degradation of the communication channel load time of day network traffic atmospheric conditions associated with the communication channel scheduled communication channel maintenance and scheduled communication channel downtime.

The reliability history of the communication channel may include for example data concerning dates times and durations of recent degradations. The reliability history of the current communication may include for example data concerning degradation of the current communication. For example if the current communication is a satellite telephone call then the reliability history of the current communication may include an average signal to noise ratio a maximum signal to noise ratio and the number of times the call has been dropped. If the communication length is known e.g. an email message then the communication length may contain such deterministic data. But if the communication length is not known then in one example of the present invention reasoning under uncertainty that considers the identity and context of the parties may be employed to predict the communication length. For some communication channels the likelihood that a communication will be degraded may be directly proportional to the length of the message. Atmospheric conditions may affect the reliability of a communication. For example the presence of sun spots a lightning storm heavy rain dense fog and the like may affect the reliability of communications. By way of illustration very heavy rain interposed between a receiver and a satellite can interrupt a digital satellite signal to a direct television system. Perhaps some of the simplest reliability factors to account for are scheduled maintenance and scheduled downtime. The reliability of a channel is likely to be substantially zero if the channel is scheduled to be down during the anticipated time of the desired communication.

Based on the analysis of the conditional expected utility of the communication via a channel as computed at may be updated. For example considering reliability of a channel as the likelihood that the channel will be available the expected utility EU of choosing that channel may be computed according to EU channel conditional utility channel predicted reliability channel 

where conditional utility is related to the determination of the expected utility as related to party context and preference e.g. block result while the predicted reliability representing the likelihood that a channel is available is related to the processing of for example.

In one example of the present invention information is presented to contactors and or contactees to engage them in a dialog to facilitate scheduling a communication. The dialog may produce entity selection data concerning the communication where such data can be employed to choose between possible communication channels. Thus at information concerning the possible communication channels and their expected utilities can be presented to a contactor and or contactee. Such presentation may be tailored to a user interface associated with a device that a party has established as a desired presentation device. Such devices can include but are not limited to a computer display a television display a PDA display a telephone display an audible signal and the like. Thus the contactor and or contactee can select from the possible communications that are identified as maximizing the utility of the communication for which the reliability of the channel has been accounted. For example a contactor may want to place a real time telephone call but may be presented with a list of other communication channels that may produce higher utilities e.g. high priority page to a person in a meeting where there is no telephone real time telephone call to contactee s assistant . Similarly the contactee may be informed that the contactor is trying to contact them and the contactee may be given the opportunity to override their preferences based on their current capabilities. By way of illustration the contactee may be at home watching a movie at two a.m. when the preferences indicate that no real time phone communications are desired. Since the present invention determined that the contactee was immediately reachable the contactee may be presented on the television with a list of options for being contacted by the contactor e.g. phone call email streaming video and may be given the opportunity to override the preferences e.g. willing to accept a phone call from the police department . Such overriding and or responses to options can be employed in ongoing machine learning to facilitate improving the performance of the method by for example adapting the rules of and .

At once the optimal communication channel s have been identified by the method and or by the contactor and or contactee then the communication can be scheduled calendared and or initiated. At a determination is made concerning whether another communication is desired. If the determination at is NO then processing concludes otherwise processing continues at .

The method is not limited to one on one communications. Groups may be linked together using method by analyzing data e.g. reliability hardware software context preferences of more than two communicators. By way of illustration a network meeting e.g. high stakes online auction may be considered. If some members have high speed network access while others have only low speed dial up access to the meeting then the utility of the group communication may be maximized by rescheduling it to a time when all the parties have high speed access. Thus no bargaining member may feel that they are at a disadvantage which could produce lower auction activity and lower price.

At channel contactor and contactee data is analyzed. Thus contrasts with where contactor and contactee data were initially analyzed with channel data subsequently analyzed at . In method a channel manager would first compute a conditional expected utility and then update that utility based on reliability processing. In method the channel data which contributes to the predicted reliability is considered substantially in parallel with the contactor and contactee data e.g. context preferences . Thus at based on the channel contactor and contactee data one or more rules for computing a utility are selected. Such rules may be selected for example based on the ratio of determined data to inferred data on the amount of data on the amount of time for making a decision and on user configuration options.

At the selected rules are employed to calculate an expected utility for the communication s along the potential communication channels. In one example of the present invention such expected utilities may be ranked and a communication may be automatically initiated based on the maximum utility. In another example of the present invention at information concerning the possible communication channels and their associated utilities may be presented to communicating parties and or controlling parties. By way of illustration in a two party communication the parties may be presented with a user interface on a computer that displays the communication choices. When the parties agree on a choice then the communication may be scheduled. By way of further illustration in a multiple party communication a central controlling authority may be presented information concerning the possible communications which facilitates adhering to organizational policy concerning group communications.

At based on the information presented at one or more communications between two or more communicating parties may be scheduled calendared and or initiated. For example an immediate email may be sent indicating that a network meeting has been scheduled for the next day at noon. At a determination is made concerning whether there is another communication. If the determination at is YES then processing returns to otherwise processing can conclude.

Turning now to a flow chart illustrates a method for identifying a communication channel that will facilitate maximizing the utility of a communication between two or more communicating parties where the decision considers the predicted reliability of the channel s by which the communication s will be made in determining the optimal channel. The method addresses reasoning under uncertainty concerning one or more data points employed in determining a maximum utility for a communication. At general initializations occur. Such initializations can include but are not limited to allocating memory establishing pointers establishing data communications acquiring resources setting variables and displaying process activity.

At data including but not limited to contactor data contactee data and communication channel data e.g. reliability data is analyzed to determine correlations that can be made and inferences that need to be made. The communication channel data can include but is not limited to the reliability history of the communication channel the reliability history of a current communication a communication length a communication type the mean time between failure of the communication channel the average failure duration of the communication channel the average percent degradation of the communication channel load time of day atmospheric conditions associated with the communication channel scheduled communication channel maintenance and scheduled communication channel downtime. The communication channel data may be incomplete. Thus one or more inferences concerning the communication channel data may be required. By way of illustration the communication length may not be known. However given the identity of the parties and the subject matter of the communication an inference may be made concerning the likely communication length. For example two attorneys communicating concerning a contract to purchase real estate may typically exchange documents totaling two megabytes of data while the same two attorneys communicating concerning a tee time may typically exchange one kilobyte of data. Thus since the likelihood that a communication will suffer degradation can be directly related to the length of a communication the predicted reliability can benefit from an inference concerning the communication length if such deterministic data is unavailable.

The contactor data which may be incomplete can include but is not limited to context data and preference data. The context data which can also be incomplete can include data gathered by watching the contactor and or observing the contactor s environment. For example light levels may be analyzed to determine whether textual communications are practical. But there may be gaps in the contactor context data. For example information concerning the light level of the contactor may not be available and thus inferences concerning such light may be required to be made from data like the location of the contactor e.g. in a darkroom in a truck and the time of day e.g. during daylight hours late at night . The contactee data may similarly be incomplete and may similarly benefit from inferring values for missing data points.

The contactor data the contactee data and the channel data may include information describing current conditions and information that facilitates predicting future conditions. For example a phone may currently be in use but data concerning phone usage patterns may be analyzed to facilitate determining the likelihood that a phone will be available at a point of time in the future.

Thus at selected inferences may be made. By way of illustration p communication length E E may be inferred to produce a conditional probability associated with the length of a certain communication where Eis evidence observed and or inferred about the parties and E is evidence observed and or inferred about the topic of the communication. By way of further illustration p context E may be inferred to produce the conditional probability that a recipient contactee has a given context given certain evidence E. Similarly an inference can be made concerning the likelihood of obtaining access to a channel within a time frame t where the likelihood that channels could be made available by time t is represented by p m t E .

At values associated with the inferences of can be analyzed to determine one or more values that may be employed in inference formulae that are employed to determine a communication with a maximum utility. The inference formulae may be for example decision theoretic formulae. At inference formulae may be employed to determine the maximum utility for a communication. In one example aspect of the present invention a basic decision theoretic formula employed in decision making under uncertainty in the context of a contactee is 

The basic formulation for identifying optimal communication channels can be extended by introducing uncertainty about the contactor s context and or the reliability which leads to 

Variables associated with channel reliability contactor and or contactee contexts can be treated as explicit deterministic or probabilistic factors in optimization processing associated with identifying the optimal communication channel. Thus equation 3 considers combinations of such channels.

The present invention may further compare the best option for communication available now with the best communication option that will be available later and update the value of the communication for the losses based in delays in communication and potential gains or losses based on changes in disruptiveness if the communication should come at the later time t when the channel has a different reliability e.g. more reliable less reliable which leads to equation 4.

Thus decision theoretic formulae like those described in equations 1 through 4 may be employed at to produce one or more expected utilities. Thus rather than the two step process described in connection with that included computing a conditional expected utility e.g. a preference based expected utility and updating the conditional expected utility based on the predicted reliability the method of factors the reliability in the initial utility calculations. In one example aspect of the present invention a communication would automatically be initiated scheduled and or calendared for a channel with desired reliability characteristics based on such information. But in another aspect of the present invention information concerning the expected utilities may be presented to one or more parties as at . By way of illustration a contactor may be presented with a list of communications with high utilities determined in accordance with the preferences of the contactee and the reliability of the channels. The contactor may then select from the list.

Based at least in part on the selection of one or more communications may be initiated e.g. phones dialed email composer receiver popped up scheduled and or calendared at for reliable communication channels. At a determination is made concerning whether another communication should be processed. If the determination at is YES then processing continues at otherwise processing concludes.

The contactor channel manager after gathering information and or making inferences concerning a context derived from a plurality of context sources preferences capabilities and reliability data may transmit contactor schema to the connection manager . The schema can hold information including but not limited to contactor identity contactor history registered documents tasks source channel requested means reliability and capabilities for example. Similarly the contactee channel manager may be queried for example by the connection manager for information including but not limited to contactee context derived from a plurality of context sources contactee preferences contactee capabilities and contactee reliability data . It is to be appreciated that although the contactor channel manager is described as transmitting data and the contactee channel manager is described as being queried that other data communication methods can be employed in accordance with the present invention.

Thus in one example of the present invention a data packet may be transmitted between the contactor channel manager and the contactee channel manager where the data packet includes a first field that stores communication channel reliability data and a second field that stores communicating party preference data. Alternatively and or additionally a data packet may be transmitted between the contactor channel manager and the contactee channel manager where the data packet includes a first field that stores communication channel reliability data and a second field that stores communication context data. Similarly a data packet may be transmitted between the contactor channel manager and the contactee channel manager where the data packet includes a first field that stores communication channel reliability data a second field that stores a communication channel reliability prognosis and a third field that stores a communication reliability prognosis.

One example of the present invention provides for interacting with hardware and or software to automatically establish the identified connections. Thus the contactor in may be able to make a first decision that they would like to communicate with a contactee select means for establishing the best communication and then wait for that best communication to be established. For example a programmer editing a code fragment of interest to a contactee may select a revision in the code and be presented with a menu of options concerning the revision. One of the options may be a BestCom option to communicate with the contactee. The programmer may then select the BestCom option whereupon analysis associated with the present invention would be initiated to establish communications with the contactee. Such processing may cause the programmer to experience situations including but not limited to display of information concerning a phone conversation being scheduled for later presentation of a herald that indicates that a telephone call is being put through immediately an Instant Messenger input field popping up an email composition form popping up with the appropriate contactee s populating the To field for example. The situation experienced by the programmer may be based on the contactee s preferences and context.

Referring now to information can be transmitted between various devices and or computer processes in a communication system via a data packet for example. An exemplary data packet is shown that could be employed in a data communication application. The data packet includes a synchronization field that includes synchronizing bits that allow a device receiving the packet an opportunity to lock on to the packet . A header field follows the synchronization field and includes information such as the length and type of packet. For example the header field may indicate whether the packet is a packet type that requires a response from the receiving device. A source address field follows the header field and includes the address of the device from which the packet originated. Following the source address field the packet includes a destination address field that holds the address of the device to which the packet is ultimately destined. In the event the communication is via a local area network LAN utilizing source routing whereby a device transmitting a packet identifies a particular route along the LAN on which the packet is to be transmitted such information is included in a source routing field included in the packet . In a non source routed LAN the source routing field is omitted and the packet is broadcast throughout the entire network absent specified routing.

A data field in the packet includes various information that is intended to be communicated to the receiving device. The packet ends with a cyclical redundancy check CRC field that serves as an error correcting field whereby a receiving device can determine if it has properly received a packet .

The data structure includes contacting party preferences channel types channel reliability prognosed channel reliability extrinsic information communication content communication context communication environment and a variety of other data fields. Thus in one example of the present invention a memory that stores data that can be accessed by a computer component may store a data structure that holds a first field that stores channel reliability information and a second field that stores communicating party preference information. Alternatively and or additionally a memory that stores data that can be accessed by a computer component may store a data structure that holds a first field that stores channel reliability information and a second field that stores communication context information. Similarly a memory that stores data that can be accessed by a computer component may store a data structure that holds a first field that stores channel reliability information a second field that stores channel reliability prognosis information and a third field that stores communication reliability prognosis information may be employed.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the present invention and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the present invention may be implemented. While the invention has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers it will be appreciated that the invention also may be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover it will be appreciated that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the invention includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit may be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in ROM .

The computer further includes a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive e.g. to read from or write to a removable disk and an optical disk drive e.g. for reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other optical media . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions etc. for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a CD it should be appreciated that other types of media that are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the present invention.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . It is to be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented with various available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a satellite dish a scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port a universal serial bus USB an IR interface etc. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s may be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or is connected to a communications server on the LAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It is to be appreciated that aspects of the present invention may be embodied in a computer readable medium. Thus a computer readable medium can store computer executable components for a system that facilitates communication between entities in accordance with the present invention. For example the computer executable components can comprise an identifying component that identifies a plurality of communication channels that respectively provide for communication between at least two entities. Furthermore the computer executable components can comprise an analyzing component that analyzes a first communication data set associated with a first entity and a second communication data set associated with a second entity the analyzing component identifying one or more communication channels of the plurality of channels based at least in part on analysis of the first and second communication data sets and the analyzing component establishing a communication between the entities.

Referring now to a simulated graphical user interface displays communication channel choices to a contactee . The communication choices UI UI and UI are ranked according to the predicted utility for the communication. While three choices are presented it is to be appreciated that the graphical user interface may display a greater and or lesser number of choices. Thus the communication channel UI which indicates that communication utility will be maximized via electronic mail is at the top of the list of menu items. The graphical user interface may receive the menu entries from a system that includes a channel manager and a reliability analyzer . In one example of the present invention a computer system having a graphical user interface that includes a display and a selection device may retrieve a set of menu entries for a menu where each of the menu entries represents a communication with a calculated expected utility. The computer system may then display the set of menu entries on the display and receive back a menu entry selection signal indicating that the selection device has been employed to select a menu entry from the set of menu entries. In response to the menu entry selection signal a communication represented by the menu entry may be initiated. While a graphical user interface is illustrated it is to be appreciated that other user interfaces e.g. audible tactile may be employed in accordance with the present invention.

Referring now to an application programming interface API is illustrated providing access to a system that includes a channel manager and a reliability analyzer . The API may be employed for example by programmers and or processes to gain entry to processing performed by the system . Similarly the API may be employed to provide data values to the system and or retrieve data values from the system . Thus in one example of the present invention a set of application program interfaces may be embodied on a computer readable medium. The interfaces may be executed by a computer component to gain access to a communication utility analyzing program. Such interfaces can include but are not limited to a first interface that receives contactor information e.g. preferences context a second interface that receives contactee information e.g. preferences context a third interface that receives communication information e.g. channel status communication content and a fourth interface that returns a utility calculation value. Such a utility calculation value may be based at least in part on the contactor information the contactee information and the communication information.

What has been described above includes examples of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the present invention but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. Accordingly the present invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted as a transitional word in a claim.

