---

title: System, apparatus and method for discovery of music within a social network
abstract: A system, apparatus, and method to assist in the discovery of music or other content by members of a social network. The present invention permits network members to network together and share information about their music collections and listening habits with a processing platform and with each other. The processing platform processes music library content and playback related data to produce similarity and compatibility measures between artists (that is, an artist-to-artist measure) and between network members (that is, a network member-to-network member measure). By combining the content and playback related data with filtering mechanisms, recommendation techniques (which may be based on the calculated measures), and set membership concepts, the present invention provides network members of the network with tools to discover artists and/or songs that are likely to be of interest to them.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572169&OS=08572169&RS=08572169
owner: Myspace, LLC
number: 08572169
owner_city: Beverly Hills
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060828
---
The present invention is directed to systems apparatus and methods for the discovery of content within a social network and more specifically to a system to enable members of a social network to discover music of interest contained in the music libraries of network members. The system utilizes an automated process to calculate similarity and or compatibility measures based on members music listening habits and music libraries and combines the measures with filtering and other techniques to produce a set of music discovery tools for network members.

The advent and popularity of portable music players for example MP3 players has provided users with the ability to access a large number of songs in a convenient manner. The portability and relatively large storage capacity of such devices has made it possible for users to have their entire music collection on a single transportable device. At the same time it has created great interest in developing ways for users to learn of i.e. discover music that might be of interest to them so that they can add the music to their collection. Traditionally the primary ways for a user to discover music have been via 1 the radio and 2 word of mouth i.e. via friends . However in addition to such methods there has been recent interest in developing other ways for users to learn of music that might be of interest to them.

In an effort to assist users to discover music that might be of interest to them several approaches have been pursued. These approaches generally rely on a user publishing a list of their music interests or current music being enjoyed e.g. a playlist and then enabling friends or other invitees to access the list. One example of such a playlist publishing model involves allowing a user to publish a playlist to a web site and then enabling the list to be accessed by specific friends or acquaintances. Those accessing the list may review the playlist and in some cases be provided with a link to enable download of selected songs from the list. Apple Computer the creator of iTunes provides a feature named iMix which permits a user to publish a playlist from an iTunes media library. The list can be sent to a friend who may then browse the playlist and purchase download individual songs from the list or purchase the entire playlist. Other similar offerings include those of WebJay recently acquired by Yahoo which provides a website for sharing playlists and Musicmobs www.musicmobs.com which assists a user to upload a playlist from iTunes to the Musicmobs website . However all of these approaches require that a user actively publish a playlist to a web site or web service and then optionally invite one or more friends via a message to access the published playlist. When the friend accesses the published playlist the friend must then decide whether or not they like the music and if so decide whether to purchase one or more of the songs.

Another approach to assisting users to discover music that might be of interest is allowing a user to publish their personal musical tastes to a location accessible by others. The leading companies in this space are believed to include Last.FM and Musicmobs. Both companies are believed to provide a user with client side software that automatically examines the user s media library tracks what music is being played and uploads that data to a website. It is understood that the uploaded data is processed to report certain of the user s music listening habits e.g. most listened to artists or most listened to songs for others to access. Such services may also allow a user to publish their music listening habits as determined by these web services as an embedded resource on another website such as a web page on a social network e.g. MySpace .

Although the above described approaches to music discovery do permit a user to share their music interests and listening habits with others they do not provide a complete solution to the problem. The above approaches generally lack sufficient automation or other data processing assistance that can add value by assisting those viewing the data to determine which music would be of greatest interest. This is because the present approaches operate so that once a playlist or summary of listening habits is published those accessing the information have to decide for themselves with no further information whether the listed songs are of interest. Since users may have a music collection numbering in the thousands of songs without more information it is very difficult for someone to select which if any of a friend s music is of sufficient interest to warrant listening to or downloading. In this sense present methods lack a way to assess the likelihood that music of interest to one user will be of interest to another. Further present methods lack a way to quantify this likelihood should that be of interest to a user.

What is desired is a system apparatus and method for enabling the efficient discovery of and access to music content where such system apparatus and method overcomes the noted disadvantages of present approaches.

The present invention is directed to a system apparatus and method to assist in the discovery of music or other content by members of a social network. The present invention permits users to network together and share information about their music collections and listening habits with a processing platform and with each other. The information includes data related to the content of the network members music libraries such as the names of songs and artists contained in a network member s library as well as data related to the use of that content such as a playcount for each song and the date time and frequency with which a song or artist is played by a network member . The processing platform provides the ability to process the music library content and playback related data to produce similarity and or compatibility measures between artists that is an artist to artist measure and between network members that is a member to member measure . By combining the content and playback related data with filtering mechanisms recommendation techniques which may be based on the calculated measures and set membership concepts the present invention provides members of the network with tools to assist in the discovery of music. In one embodiment based on the results of the data processing the present invention is capable of generating recommendations of artists and or songs to members of the network. In this way the present invention assists members of the social music network to discover music content that is more likely to be of interest to them.

In addition to generating recommendations the present invention is capable of generating other outputs that facilitate the discovery of music and other content where that music is expected to be of interest to a member of the network. Along with the recommendations these outputs may broadly be termed music discovery tools . Specifically one feature of the invention is that a network member can access or in terms of the user interface see information regarding the music library and music listening data of another network member a friend who is a network member or has been invited to join the network or a group of members of the network. Various inventive filtering mechanisms may be applied to this data to produce results that are contextually relevant to the network member viewing the data. Examples of such filtering mechanisms include showing music not currently owned by the network member but contained in the music library of a relevant person or group or showing the songs played most by a person or group i.e. the most popular songs but not currently owned by the network member. Such filtering mechanisms may be applied independently of each other or sequentially e.g. what songs are played most by the group followed by determining which of those a network member does not presently own . This allows a network member to filter and or order the data to provide contextually relevant results that permit the network member to discover music content that is expected to be of interest to them.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a social music network that includes a plurality of client agents where each client agent is associated with a respective network member and configured to communicate and exchange data with a processing platform. Each client agent is further configured to provide one or more types of data regarding the respective network member s music library to the processing platform where the data is processed to produce an output representing a music discovery tool that may be used by a member of the network to discover music of interest to that member.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a social music network server that includes a communications interface configured to receive data from a plurality of social music clients where each social music client is associated with a respective network member and configured to provide data regarding the respective network member s music library to the server. The server further includes a processor to process the received data and generate an output representing a music discovery tool that may be used by a member of the network to discover music of interest to that member.

In yet another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of generating a music discovery tool for a member of a social network that includes determining data regarding the music library contents or music library contents usage of a plurality of members of the social network and processing the data to generate an output representing a music discovery tool that may be used by a member of the network to discover music of interest to that member.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present invention and the included figures.

The present invention is directed to a system apparatus and method for the efficient discovery of music between members of a social music network. The inventive system permits members of a social music network to discover music contained in other members music collections that may be of interest with that interest suggested by processing of content and playback related data calculated compatibility and similarity measures and data filtering techniques. The system further includes the ability to generate artist and song recommendations to members of the network based on a variety of indicia of potential interest. In addition to generating recommendations the present invention is capable of producing other types of music discovery tools that facilitate the discovery of music and other content expected to be of interest to a member of the network. Such tools may be obtained by application of various filtering mechanisms to the music library and music listening data of another network member a friend who is a member of the network or has been invited to become one or a group of network members. An example of such a filtering mechanism is to show a network member music owned by or actively listened to by another network member friend or group but that is not currently owned by the network member. Another example of such a filtering mechanism is to show the songs owned by or played most by a person or group. Further note that such filtering mechanisms may be applied independently of each other or sequentially e.g. what songs are played most by the group followed by determining which of those the network member does not presently own .

The inventive system provides an infrastructure and relevant processes to enable multiple users to form a social network with that network designed to permit the tracking and exchange of data concerning members musical interests and tastes. The data is obtained using social music discovery client software installed on members computing and or music playback devices. The client software tracks a network member s music interests and tastes as evidenced by the artists and songs contained in a network member s music library and by the music playback activities of the network member. The data monitored or collected by the client software is processed by a processing platform of the system to produce among other results a measure of the similarity or compatibility of the musical tastes of a first network member and a second network member or between a first artist and a second artist. The system further utilizes information about the content of a network member s musical library and playback activities combined if desired with the similarity compatibility measures set membership concepts and or collaborative filtering techniques to provide network members with insights into music that they do not currently have access to but that may be of interest to them. It is further expected that the network member s level of interest will be more than nominal by virtue of the results of the data processing and other analysis applied to the library playback and similarity compatibility measure data.

Note that although in portions of the description of the present invention reference is made to a first network member it is to be understood that unless it would lead to an inconsistency or present a problem regarding clarity the term is intended to refer to either a single network member or to a group of network members. Similarly when reference is made to a second network member it is to be understood that unless it would lead to an inconsistency or problem regarding clarity the term is intended to refer to either a single network member or to a group of network members. Thus when reference is made in the description figures or claims to a first network member and a second network member it is to be understood that the first member may be a single member or group of members and the second member may be a single member or group of members. Furthermore the same understanding is to apply to references to a music library music artist or other aspects of the invention wherein reference to a singular item could be replaced without inconsistency with reference to a group of items.

The measure of similarity or compatibility may be the result of evaluating a specified metric e.g. a quantity used to characterize a set of data for a network member s musical library or listening habits and comparing that to the value of the same metric for a second network member. In such a method the metric is evaluated for each network member s data set separately and then the values of the metric are compared to obtain a measure of the similarity or compatibility between the network members generally by application of a heuristic to the metric values . In addition to evaluation of a defined metric the measures may also result from application of a statistical analysis technique to the data e.g. a center of gravity analysis or a clustering technique to determine how closely each network member s musical tastes are to a defined standard or a curve or surface fitting technique to determine an equation or surface that can be used to characterize a network member s music library or listening habits.

A similarity or compatibility measure may also be obtained by performing an analysis of the two network member s data as groups the contents of which are compared relative to each other. A wide variety of suitable methods can be used including similarity calculation methods typically used in the area of Collaborative Filtering. Such methods include the Cosine Based Similarity method for example. The inventors have also developed correlation and similarity measure techniques suitable for use as part of the present invention and which will be described in greater detail.

In addition to the similarity or compatibility measures the present invention also utilizes certain filtering mechanisms and set membership concepts to process the data and generate recommendations or other outputs that facilitate the discovery of music by a member of the network. These set membership concepts include intersection the set of elements common to a first and second set union the set of elements generated by combining the elements of a first and second set and set differences the set of elements obtained by determining those members of a first set not present in a second or vice versa . For example using such concepts it is possible to develop a measure of the degree of overlap of the two network member s music listening habits similar to the intersection of two sets a measure of the lack of overlap of the data sets or a measure of the similarity of the artists contained in the two network member s musical libraries.

Using the music library contents and usage data and if desired the generated similarity and compatibility measures appropriate filtering mechanisms and set membership concepts the present invention generates music discovery tools for a member of the network. These tools provide insight into the music contained in one network member s library or a group of members libraries that is expected to of greater than nominal interest to a second network member or group of network members . After identifying such music either in the form of a song or an artist the inventive system is capable of generating a recommendation to the second network member or group of members where the recommendation may include a sample of the song or artist. The inventive system may also produce other outputs that assist a network member or group of members to discover music that is expected to be of interest to them. Such outputs include a display of music not currently in the network member s music library or group s libraries that satisfies one or more criteria. These criteria may include music popular with one or more network members that is expected to be of interest e.g. by virtue of a similarity compatibility measure calculation or music that a network member doesn t have but that is found in the libraries of members of a group or of a friend or group of friends.

As noted the inventive system may also rely on evaluation of other suitably defined metrics or analysis techniques that can be used to characterize the data. For example such metrics or analysis techniques include those utilized in Collaborative Filtering or Collaborative Recommendation methods and a variety of forms of statistical analysis. For example such methods include similarity measures that are used as the basis for generating recommendations. Such similarity measures are used to quantify the relative similarity or closeness of two data sets typically by expressing a characteristic of such data sets as an n dimensional vector or n by m dimensional matrix. Examples of such similarity measures include those termed the Cosine based Similarity Correlation based Similarity and Adjusted Cosine Similarity methods.

The result of evaluating the measure metric or technique that is utilized will typically be a characterization of the music library and or musical taste of the network member or group whose data is processed or a characterization of a relationship between the music library and or musical taste of a pair of network members such as the correlation etc. . When provided a measure or metric for a first network member and a second network member an indicator of the similarity of the two network member s musical libraries or of the compatibility of the two network member s musical tastes can be inferred. This indicator may be the result of comparing the two measures or metrics processing the two measures or metrics in accordance with a heuristic to determine the closeness of the two measures requiring a certain minimum measure of similarity or compatibility etc.

Further a value of the characterizing parameter may be thresholded scaled or otherwise processed to determine its relevance and assess the similarity or compatibility of the network members musical tastes. Regardless of how obtained the result may be taken as an indicia of the likelihood that the musical tastes or interests of a first network member will be of interest to a second network member. If these indicia are of sufficient value then the inventive system may be used to generate recommendations either automatically or via user action to the second network member of an artist or song contained in the music library of the first network member. As noted the system may also generate other outputs to a network member that are intended to facilitate the discovery of music that is expected to be of interest to them e.g. by showing the network member music that they do not currently have that is popular with one or more members of the network such as a group of friends or those with similar music interests .

As noted in addition to generating recommendations regarding music contained in one network member s library that may be of interest to a second network member the inventive system may be used to indicate other data or relationships of interest. For example the system may be used to indicate to a network member what music contained in another network member s music library is not in their own library what music that is popular with one network member is not known to a second network member or which network member is the first newest or biggest fan of a particular song or artist. The system may also be used to indicate for a given artist those songs popular with a first network member or group of members such as a group of friends with similar music interests that are not presently in the music library of a second network member. Further the system may also be used to indicate for a network member those artists songs similar to those popular with the network member but that are not presently contained in the network member s music library.

The system may also be used to generate recommendations using a collaborative filtering technique. In such a collaborative filtering technique an artist popular with a first network member may be recommended to a second network member because of the similarity of that artist to one popular with the second network member. Further such filtering techniques may be used to recommend an artist to a network member because other network members indicate an interest in that artist and the other network members have sufficient overlap with the musical tastes or interests of the network member.

Further examples of the inventive system and additional details regarding the implementations of the inventive system previously discussed will now be presented with reference to the figures.

As noted system includes one or more network members shown as User A User B and other users in the figure. Each such network member operates a personal computer or other computing device that includes a storage medium containing a media library a social music discovery client of the present invention and a web browser or other suitable means for exchanging data between the network member s computing device and the social music discovery backend . Note that the personal computer or other computing device may be a mobile phone properly configured dedicated music playback device e.g. an MP3 player or home stereo component or other device having the functionality and data communications capabilities described. The social music discovery client software contained in a network member s computing device may be a separate software program or may be integrated with other functions e.g. being part of a browser or other application program. The social music discovery client software in one member s device may communicate with the social music discovery client software in another network member s computing device using a peer to peer P2P communication protocol method with communications typically transferred over the Internet or another suitable network. Note that in the case of mobile devices the network may include wireless communications capabilities.

The social music discovery client software of the present invention is responsible for accessing a network member s media library e.g. stored music content and certain data related to the media library such as content description media playback characteristics and related indicia of usage. The client is also one of the elements responsible for transferring this information to the social music discovery backend where the data is processed to produce the compatibility measures similarity measures and music discovery tools e.g. recommendations that are some of the features of the present invention.

Further in accordance with the present invention the computing device also includes a social music discovery client . Social music discovery client is a software application executed on the computing device to permit multiple such computing devices to share information about their respective media and media usage with each other and with the social music discovery backend . Note that client may be a software application that is part of a browser or other application or may be a separate application executing on the computing device.

As shown in the figure social music discovery backend includes a web server middle tier software application and social music discovery database s . Web server middle tier software application represents one or more web servers in communication with network members computing devices and configured to receive HTTP or another suitable protocol based requests from the web browser software or social music discovery client software . The web server middle tier application responds to such requests by serving web pages and or user interface data over the client server connection enabling web browser to be used to perform certain functions of the inventive system such as registering for the system inviting friends to participate browsing friends music tastes etc. The web server middle tier also functions to shuttle calls to the social music discovery database or databases for example to send a network member s playback play count data from their computing device for storage and processing to determine compatibility measures similarity measures and to generate the music discovery tools that are some of the features of the present invention.

As shown in the figure the functional elements contained in the Social music discovery database s typically include a database of network member accounts UserDB . This database contains data regarding user account names status and monitors which users have installed the social music discovery client element of so that data sent back from client is properly associated with the correct network member. UserDB may also include data relevant to determining the presence on the network and or availability of a member of the network. The functional elements further include a music library database MusicLibDB . MusicLibDB is a database containing all or the relevant portion of the data in each member s music library database element of i.e. data regarding each member s songs albums artists and playback activities. Such data may include but is not limited to playcounts for each song the date added to the library playlists etc.

Further the functional elements include processing elements such as a processor or processing module microprocessor state machine computing element etc. capable of executing one or more processes or methods for evaluating the data received from network members and contained in MusicLibDB and in some cases UserDB and or other sources . The executed processes or methods are used to determine indicia or measures that suggest that the music or preferences of one network member would be of interest to a second network member i.e. music discovery tools . An example of these processes or methods is represented by the similarity compatibility calculators element in the figure. Such processes or methods may include ones for determining the similarity or compatibility between the music tastes of a first network member and a second network member termed a Person2Person similarity calculator in the figure or the similarity or compatibility between two musical artists termed an Artist2Artist similarity calculator in the figure . The processes or methods may be used as the basis for generating recommendations and or notifications to a network member of their potential interest in musical content contained in the music library of another network member. Such processes or methods implemented either as part of calculators or as part of another element of the system may further include processes that filter the music library and playback data to produce outputs indicating music contained in the music library of one or more members of the network that is not contained in the library of a network member or music that is popular with one or more members of the network but not contained in a network member s library.

Although a variety of similarity or compatibility algorithms or heuristics may be used as part of the present invention they will preferably have certain characteristics in common. Specifically the algorithms or heuristics will generally define a metric or metrics of interest and then compute a value of that metric based on the data and meta data relevant to the music libraries and music listening behaviors of a network member or members. The metric may be calculated for each network member separately and then compared on a network member to network member basis on a network member to group basis or on a group to network member basis for example. The metric may also be calculated as a measure of the similarity or statistical correlation between one group of data and a second group of data where the data represents network members musical libraries or parameters characterizing an artist to permit comparison to a second artist . The metric may be defined as a statistical measure a distance measure a group membership measure inclusive exclusive relative significance within a group a relevancy measure a clustering measure or other suitable characteristic. The metric may be evaluated as a comparison between two artists between an artist and a normalized value based on a group of artists etc.

As an example a suitable similarity measure is that termed the Cosine based Similarity measure. In this method two items are modeled as two vectors in an m dimensional user space. The similarity between them is measured by computing the cosine of the angle between these two vectors which is a measure of the projection of one vector on the other.

Formally given an m n ratings matrix where the matrix rows represent users and the columns represent values for the desired characteristic the similarity between items i and j denoted by sim i j is given by sim cos where denotes the dot product of the two vectors and i represents the norm magnitude of the vector.

 1 a database stores data concerning the number of times a user plays a song by an artist this is defined as playcount u a where playcount is the number of times a user u plays an artist a 

 2 each artist is represented as a vector A in n dimensional space where n is the number of users in the system and A u playcount u a and

 3 the similarity between any two artists is computed via vector cosine similarity so that the artist most similar to a selected artist is the artist whose vector forms the smallest angle in n space to the artist in question and the cosine between two vectors is equal to their dot product divided by the product of their magnitudes.

Then in order to determine a list of the artists most similar to a find the artists a with the largest Correlation a a values.

Further in order to compute a user user similarity compatibility measure i.e. between two members the following implementation of a cosine based similarity measure may be used 

u dot u sum playcount u a playcount u a across all artists a contained in the respective music libraries of each user where u sqrt u dot u and the compatibility measure is defined as

Note that although the implementations of the cosine based similarity measure described herein provide beneficial results when utilized as part of the present invention such implementations are not the only ones that may be utilized. Further the beneficial results of the present invention may be obtained by use of other similarity measures and or analysis techniques. Broadly speaking the calculators process the play count music library data for network members and artists i.e. library contents and usage data to determine a network member s similarity to or compatibility with another network member or other network members or to discover the similarity between artists listened to by one or more network members. For example the calculators may process the data to obtain results suggesting that one artist is similar to another and hence that a network member who likes the first artist may like the second or that network members who listen to a lot of music by both artists are similar to each other which may be used as the basis for recommending a third artist liked by one network member to the other network member . Such recommendation techniques are similar to collaborative filtering techniques well known in the art although they may be known by other terms as well.

In addition to the example similarity and correlation measures described the inventors have developed other measures that may be used within the context of the present invention to provide beneficial results. As an example the artist to artist correlation may be computed using the following method which is a modification of a type of Cosine based similarity measure 

Define a multi dimensional matrix f L A with the matrix having dimensions equal to the number of users of the network times the number of artists represented in the combined music libraries of all users. The value of an element of the matrix is given by the number of times per year that listener L listens to artist A i.e. the total annual playcount of artist A in listener L s music library . Thus given a total of n users and m distinct artists the matrix has dimensions n m and the matrix element in the ith row and jth column a represents the number of times per year that users that is a particular member listener played artist.

Next the matrix values are normalized based on the popularity of each artist A to calculate F L A where 

Further in order to provide more reliable input data in the calculation of C in addition to listener playcount data f L A the inventors have recognized that it would be beneficial to incorporate playlist data in the matrix f L A . In this embodiment the matrix f and the normalized matrix F are extended to include rows not only for listeners but also for playlists. In this case the matrix element f P A has a value equal to the number of times a given artist A appears inside a playlist P. To obtain the playlist data the inventors use the actual music playlists in the music libraries of the users supplemented if desired by professionally programmed playlists created by sources such as radio disc jockeys. In one implementation each playlist P is given a row in the matrix f and hence contributes to the normalized matrix F and to the artist to artist correlation values. In this way artists that appear in playlists more often than others are given added weight in the calculations. In addition these alternate sources of data such as playlists may be weighted differently relative to the library playcount data and to each other. In this regard the relative importance of each data source may be weighted differently in the calculation of the correlation matrix C.

Further in order to reduce the time needed to perform this computation across all users and all artists a filter may be applied to eliminate data from users and or artists with low relative playcounts or other data values. For example when calculating artist similarity those users with extremely low relative playback of a particular artist may be ignored to reduce the computation requirements.

The user to user member to member similarity measure may be calculated according to the following method also developed by the inventors 

Define S L L to be the similarity between two users L and L . This value is defined not just by comparing the users listening habits for a shared artist but also including the artist to artist correlation values between similar artists as follows 

Note that the effect of this modification is to introduce an increase in the calculated similarity compatibility between a first and second user when those users listen to music from similar artists not just the same artist.

As mentioned in order to reduce the time needed to perform this computation across all users and all artists a filter may be applied to eliminate data from users and or artists with low relative playcounts. For example in calculating the compatibility between two users one may reduce computation requirements by ignoring those artists that neither user listens to sufficiently to take into consideration.

1. A network member s similarity to himself or herself is 1.0 or 100 . An artist s correlation to himself or herself is 1.0 or 100 

2. The correlation between artists is symmetric i.e. C A A C A A . The similarity between two users is symmetric i.e. S L L S L L 

3. As noted the similarity between two users is not based only on those users liking the same artists. Two network members can have a high similarity measure even if they listen to music by different artists the correlation between those artists still contributes to the similarity between the network members and

4. Popular artists do not overwhelm distort the calculation even though they typically get played the most by all listeners.

The social music discovery databases further include a database storing the metric or metrics values e.g. similarity distance or the like between pairs of network members termed a UserRelDB in the figure and labeled S in the previous calculation . In addition databases include a database storing the metric or metrics values e.g. similarity distance or the like between pairs of artists termed a ArtistRelDB in the figure and labeled C in the previous calculation . That is the value of the defined metric or measure is available for each pair wise combination of network members or artists. Note that this also permits a value of the metric or measure to be generated between a network member and a group of network members by properly combining the pair wise values between the network member and each network member in the group or between an artist and a group of artists.

In addition databases include a database of each network member s friends termed a FriendsDB in the figure. This database stores data regarding invitations sent by one member of the social music discovery network to another person inviting them to become a member of the network or if a member of the network to become a friend meaning that they exchange certain information or data . An invitation remains unconfirmed until the invitee confirms or accepts it. Among other things FriendsDB keeps track of the state of these invitations.

Databases also includes a Music Inbox for each network member which stores music recommendations for that network member termed InBoxDB in the figure. Among other things InBoxDB contains music recommendations sent by that network member s friends where such recommendations may be suggested as the result of the data processing activities of the present invention. Recommendations may contain an artist song album or playlist sent as a recommendation from one network member to another network member. For example a recommendation based on a similarity or compatibility measure may include a portion of a song a down sampled version of a song or another processed form of a song.

The messages songs in a network member s Music Inbox include recommendations from friends as well as recommendations generated by the inventive system itself. The first type of recommendation recommendations from friends are sent based on user action for example if a user clicks a link to recommend this song to a friend or if a user uses a drag drop operation to drag a song from their music library to a visual display of their friend s library or inbox. Such a recommendation may result from a user viewing a list of those songs contained in their own library but not contained in a friend s library for example. The second type of recommendation those generated automatically by the system are typically generated by one of two methods a looking at a user s most played artists songs and recommending artists songs with high correlation values high degree of artist to artist similarity or b looking at a user s network of friends or strangers with similar music tastes and recommending artists songs that are played the most within that group or network filtered to remove songs already contained in the user s library if desired .

The Music Inbox stores a list of recommended songs for each network member as well as data about where the recommendation came from from a particular friend a group of friends or based on the network member s listening habits. The Music Inbox may optionally store a rating allowing the network member to rate each recommendation as a good or bad helpful or unhelpful recommendation. It may also enable sampling of the music either by linking to a streaming clip of the song or by including a stored clipped portion or down sampled rendition of the song. Note that the process of generating recommendations music discovery tools may be adapted by taking into account the ratings assigned to a recommendation by a network member. For example future recommendations from the originators of previously highly rated recommendations may be given added weighting or filtered to make them more likely to be provided. In addition future recommendations of artists similar to ones that were previously highly rated by a network member might be more likely to be provided.

In the account registration followed by client software installation scenario the user navigates to a web page for the social music discovery network and views the registration form stage . The user then initiates the registration process stage by providing a username e.g. their email address and password accepts the terms of use for the service and may provide additional personal information e.g. location gender etc. if desired. The data entry may be facilitated using a series of forms perhaps aided by executable scripts that facilitate the data entry and processing to collect data from the user. The forms may be displayed either in HTML or another suitable markup language served from the web server middle tier to the user s browser or as forms displayed directly within another suitable application. The data from the forms is stored in UserDB where the new user account may be saved as a new row in the database stage .

Following the registration process the user is presented with a web page that may be used to initiate the download and installation of the social music discovery client software stage . The user then downloads and installs the client software on their local computing device. Upon installation the client software provides data about the user s music library and music listening habits to the social music discovery backend stage . The data may include song by song playback data and or the user s entire music library database which stores the meta data for all artists albums songs playlists and playcounts of each . This data is sent from the Social Music Discovery Client received by the Web Server Middle Tier and saved to the MusicLibDB .

The data may be provided regularly by for example one or both of the following two methods 1 playback data may be sent from the client to the server backend each time a song is played on the user s device or 2 the entire library database may be sent from the user s device to the server backend on a regular schedule such as every week . Furthermore once this data has been collected on the server it may be used to calculate the user s similarity to their friends or to determine strangers with similar music tastes etc.

In the installation of the social music discovery client software followed by registration scenario the user navigates to a web page for the social music discovery network and views a client installation instructions stage . The user is presented with a web page that may be used to initiate the download and installation of the social music discovery client software stage . The user then downloads and installs the client software on their local computing device. Upon installation the client software provides data about the user s music library and music listening habits to the social music discovery backend stage . The data may include song by song playback data and or the user s entire music library database which stores the meta data for all artists albums songs playlists and playcounts of each . This data is sent from the Social Music Discovery Client received by the Web Server Middle Tier and saved to the MusicLibDB .

The user then registers with the social music discovery network by providing information requested by forms presented through the social music discovery client stage . This typically involves providing a username e.g. their email address and password accepting the terms of use for the service and possibly additional personal information e.g. location gender etc. if desired. As mentioned the data entry may be facilitated using a series of forms perhaps aided by executable scripts that facilitate the data entry and processing to collect data from the user. The forms may be displayed either in HTML or another suitable markup language served from the web server middle tier to the user s browser or as forms displayed directly within another suitable application. The data from the forms is stored in UserDB where the new user account may be saved as a new row in the database stage .

Upon registration or at a later date a network member may wish to invite a friend or acquaintance to become a member of the network or if already a member to become linked as friends within the network. is a flowchart showing an example implementation of a process to invite a friend to be granted access to a network member s social music network in accordance with the present invention. As shown in the figure the process starts with a first network member User A in the figure selecting a friend or acquaintance User B in the figure whom they wish to either invite to join the network or if already a member to become linked within the network stage . This may be accomplished for example by selecting User B s email address from an invitation form if not yet a member of the network or from an add friend form presented by the social music discovery client. The system then may determine if User B is already a member of the network typically by determining if User B s email address is found in the user account database for the network stage .

If User B is not presently a member of the network the No branch in the figure then User B is sent an invitation to join the network via email stage . The invitation will typically include a hyperlink that can be used to initiate the registration process followed by the software client installation process stage as described previously with reference to . Upon installation of the client software User B will become a member of the network and User A and User B are confirmed as friends in the friends database stage . If User B is presently a member of the network the Yes branch in the figure then User B is sent a message informing them that another member of the network has designated them as a friend stage . In such a case the system will associate User A and User B as unconfirmed friends in the friends database. Upon visiting their user profile page for the network User B will be notified of the invitation and offered the opportunity to accept or reject the invitation i.e. accept or deny the invitation as shown at stage . If User B accepts the invitation then User A and User B are confirmed as friends in the friends database stage .

Note that there are at least two different ways to invite people to join the network. The first method the upper left box in the figure involves inviting a friend by providing their email address that friend may or may not already be a member of the social network. The second method the upper right box in the figure involves finding a profile page within the network and asking that existing member to become a friend. Note that at a relevant stage in the invitation process e.g. after stage the system may be configured to calculate the music compatibility between the friends and display that result and or notify them of their music compatibility measure. Further a list of songs and or artists common to both parties may be provided with the music compatibility measure or independently of the measure. This list may be obtained by determining those songs artists that contribute the most to the compatibility measure.

As noted the present invention is designed to facilitate the discovery of music or other content between members of a social network. This is accomplished by collecting and processing data regarding the items contained in network members music libraries and also data regarding the use of those libraries e.g. listening habits . Such data may include but is not limited to the following 

Note that the data collected for each member of the network may include one or more of the above described data types and further that the same data type s need not be collected for each member thereby permitting a first set of data types to be collected for a first network member and a different set of data types to be collected for a second network member . In addition to the above data the invention calculates similarity compatibility measures 

Note that although the measures are described as being calculated between first and second network members or first and second artists the measures may also be calculated between a first member or artist and a group of members or artists between a group of members or artists and a second member or artist or between a first group of members or artists and a second group of members or artists . The processed data and similarity compatibility measures may then be used with collaborative recommendation filtering techniques other filtering techniques ranking threshold removal of music already present in the library of a member or group of members etc. and set membership concepts union intersection difference to generate music discovery tools and other information of value to the members of the network. For example using the song artist data possible outputs of the invention some of which will be discussed in greater detail include 

The combination of the collected data derived similarity compatibility measures collaborative filtering techniques filtering mechanisms and set membership concepts in addition to other processing and or filtering techniques can be used by the inventive system alone or in combination to help network members discover music that is expected to be of interest to them. The system can generate recommendations automatically by looking at a network member s friends or a group of network members having similar musical tastes or other qualities or the system can assist a network member to manually discover music e.g. by browsing through their friends libraries or browsing the libraries of strangers with similar music tastes in conjunction with the application of various filtering mechanisms to the data .

For example the system may automatically generate one or more of the following types of outputs recommendations or music discovery tools either directly or as a combination of more than one of the indicated filtering processing steps 

Examples of manually generated outputs recommendations or music discovery tools that may be produced either directly or as a combination of more than one of the indicated filtering processing steps include 

Note that where applicable the results may be re ordered to display first or most prominently feature the music or persons that most closely match the network member s existing listening habits or musical tastes.

For example in order to allow a first network member User to see the songs that another network member User is listening to and that may be of more than nominal interest to the first network member the following method may be used. The intention is to determine the set of User s songs that User doesn t own but that fit well with User s tastes.

This is the set of User s songs that User doesn t have yet and represents a difference operation between the respective set elements.

Next the set data is processed to sort them into a particular order in this case to show the set of User s songs that Use doesn t have presented to Use in order of songs most likely to fit your tastes .

To perform the sort the method uses the artist to artist correlation matrix C where C A A is the correlation between artists A and A and the user playcount database where Playcount User Artist is the number of times a particular user network member plays a particular artist

for each song S by artist A in the set assign a sorting magnitude which is defined by taking Use s playcount for the song and multiplying by User s playcount for all correlated artists note that although the algorithm is designed to compute the value based on all correlation values for the sake of computational efficiency a filter may be applied so that only relatively high correlation values are used in the computation .

thus the sorting magnitude of song S artist A Playcount Use S sum C A A Playcount User A across all artists A 

Then sort the set of User s songs that Use doesn t have by their sorting magnitude. This yields a sorted list all of User s songs that Use doesn t own yet but that match Use s tastes as suggested by playcount data and artist to artist correlation measure .

A benefit of this approach is that a person can look at a friend s library and the inventive methods will automatically suggest which songs from the friend s library are likely to be the most interesting to sample. Note that the method automatically discards music that Use already owns. Of the remaining music a song is assigned higher weight if User listens to it a lot in other words it gives weight to User s favorite songs but it also compares each song to Use s likelihood of enjoying it based on comparing to Use s historical playcounts for that artist and similar artists . Thus this method highlights songs that Use listens to a lot and that are also a good fit with Use s listening habits and it deemphasizes songs that Use doesn t listen to very much or songs that don t fit Use s listening habits.

The inventive system utilizes similarity compatibility measures filtering mechanisms set membership concepts and data regarding network members music libraries and listening habits to generate a set of music discovery tools. These tools include messages containing recommendations and other outputs that assist in the discovery of music for a network member or group of members. As has been described the recommendations or other outputs may be based on set analysis what one network member has in their library that another does not and would be of interest identification of a fan of a certain artist or style of music or another suitable filter or heuristic.

In order to provide the data required for computation of the compatibility or similarity measures and generate the recommendations and other music discovery tools the system is designed to access the data contained in the music library database MusicLibDB element of and process that data to generate the desired measures or outputs. This may be accomplished for example by regularly e.g. daily weekly or upon detecting a certain degree of change within the database contents processing the database data to produce the desired measures e.g. the Person2Person Similarity measure and or Artist2Artist Similarity measure see element of . The calculators responsible for generating these measures are software routines executed on the data contained in the databases of artists and users network members elements and of . The results of the compatibility and similarity measures are used to populate the person to person similarity database UserRelDB element of and the artist to artist similarity database ArtistRelDB element of . As mentioned these databases store the similarity distance measure between pairs of network members where for this purpose a network member may be an individual or group and between pairs of artists where again for this purpose an artist may be a single artist or a group of artists .

Note that in addition to the described measures the compatibility or similarity measure can be any relevant metric definable as some computation or relationship over the set of processed data. Typical metrics applicable to the present invention include generalized norms distance measures which provide a value indicative of the relative separation of two sets of data normalized value metrics ranking metrics which provide an indication of the ordering of sets of data as well as set membership based metrics which provide an indication of relationships between sets of data such as intersection union and related concepts .

Typically the relevant metric is computed for each pair wise combination of network members or between an individual and group and between each pair wise combination of artists or between a single artist and group of artists . The resulting values for the relevant metric or metrics can then be compared subjected to a threshold operation filtered subjected to a clustering analysis or otherwise processed to determine whether the results indicate a likelihood that one network member or group of network members would be interested in the musical tastes of a second network member or group of network members . For example given the metric values the system can determine which pairs of network members have a sufficiently close similarity in musical tastes to be interested in each other s music library contents. Likewise given the metric values the system can determine which artists are sufficiently close in similarity to each other to warrant suggesting that a network member interested in one artist might be interested in the other. Note that collaborative recommendation filtering algorithms and heuristics may be used to generate recommendations of additional songs and or artists based on similarity compatibility between the two network members supplemented if desired by data indicating a similarity between two artists. For example a network member who has sufficient similarity with a second network member might be interested in an artist currently unknown to them because that artist is popular with the second network member. In addition the network member might also be interested in an artist because that artist is similar to an artist that is popular with the second network member or with themselves .

As further examples of the possible results that may be obtained from the inventive system the following sections describe exemplary outputs of the data processing that represent music discovery tools which may be used to suggest an interest in the musical tastes of one network member by another network member. These include indicating to a network member music contained in another network member s or group of network members music library or libraries that is not in their own library indicating music that is popular with one network member that is not known to a second network member or indicating which network member is the first newest or biggest fan of a particular song or artist.

The system may also be used to indicate for a given artist those songs popular with a first network member or group of members that are not presently in the music library of a second network member. Further the system may also be used to indicate for a network member those artists songs that are similar to those popular with the network member but that are not presently contained in the network member s music library. The system may also be used to show a network member music contained in their own library that is not contained in the library of a second member or group of members of the network.

One possible output of the system represents a measure of the compatibility of one network member s musical interests to those of another network member. is a flowchart showing an example of the primary steps in the generation and display of a compatibility measure between two members or between a member and a group or between two groups of the social music discovery network of the present invention. The depicted process is based on a database query to the UserRelDB element of which contains the values for the compatibility measure between any two network members i.e. the pair wise calculations of the measure . The calculation of the compatibility measure is performed in accordance with any suitable heuristic or algorithm although as noted in one implementation the inventors have utilized a form of a cosine based similarity measure either alone or as modified to account for the correlation between artists. Because this calculation is performed routinely to update the UserRelDB it is likely that a value for the compatibility between any two network members is available in the database. However if it is not available the Person2Person Similarity Calculator element of may be used to calculate the measure and to update the UserRelDB . In addition it is possible to query the system for the details or explanation behind the music compatibility measure which can result in a visual display of the most listened to artists songs that are shared or not between the two network members as will be described in greater detail with reference to . Note that in addition to showing the compatibility measure between two network members it may be desirable to provide a list of those songs artists common to the music libraries of the two network members. One way to generate such a list is to determine the artists that contribute the largest amount to the overall network member compatibility score.

As shown in the process may begin with a first member of the network User A navigating to the social music discovery network web page of a second network member User B as shown at stage . User A s browser then requests the profile page of User B from web server middle tier element of as shown at stage . Web server middle tier then accesses the profile data for User B via calls and data exchanges using the database API element of where this profile data may include data contained in UserDB element of MusicLibDB element of and the similarity measure for the User A User B pair contained in UserRelDB element of as shown at stage . The profile data will typically contain information about the network member and their musical tastes and or listening habits as well as the noted similarity measure. As mentioned if the UserRelDB does not contain the requested similarity measure or if it contains a stale or otherwise unsuitable value for the measure the Person2Person Similarity Calculator may be used in real time to calculate the measure and to update the UserRelDB as shown at stage .

Upon accessing the profile data User A s browser displays all or certain aspects of User B s profile. Such aspects may include but are not limited to User B s most listened to artists and or songs as well as a music compatibility score indicating a measure of the likely compatibility of the music tastes or interests between the two network members as shown at stage . If User A desires additional information regarding the basis for the compatibility score or measure they may request such information via their browser which will query the system for an explanation via the web server middle tier and database API as shown at stage . In response the web server middle tier queries via the database API the MusicLibDB and UserRelDB to obtain data needed to determine the relation between the musical interests and tastes of the two network members. This determination may be made in several ways. For example it may be determined by identifying which of the two network member s most listened to artists and or songs are shared between the two network member s musical libraries indicating a more likely compatibility the system may also identify which of the two network member s most listened to artists and or songs are not shared between the two network member s musical libraries indicating a less likely compatibility as shown at stage . This information is provided to User A s browser and displayed for User A s viewing at stage .

As another example of the possible outputs and music discovery tools that may be obtained from the inventive system is a flowchart showing an example of the primary steps in the generation and display of a first recommendation feature or music discovery tool between two members of the social music discovery network of the present invention. This feature is based on determining which artists or songs are popular with a first network member or group but are not presently known to or popular with a second network member or group . This may be accomplished by determining which artists or songs that are popular with a first network member or group are not contained in the music library of a second network member or group .

As shown in the leftmost column of the process may begin with a first network member User A accessing the profile of a second network member User B and selecting a link to Songs that B enjoys but I don t have or another similar expression of the concept stage . This may be determined by User A s browser sending a request to the web server middle tier for a comparison of the music libraries of the two network members stage . One way of implementing this feature is to submit a database query to request the most listened to music in User B s music library and then to determine which of those songs artists are not present in User A s music library stage . As shown in the figure at stage the query may be constructed to determine the N most listened to artists or songs that are in User B s music library but are not presently in User A s music library. The web server may then return a web page for display using User A s browser that shows those artists and or songs that are most popular with User B but are not presently contained in User A s music library stage . Note that for improved efficiency and speed this and other queries described herein may be written as a stored procedure for the MusicLibDB.

Similarly as shown in the center column of the process may used to determine those artists and or songs contained in User A s music library and popular with User A that are not contained in User B s music library. The process may begin with a first network member User A accessing the profile of a second network member User B and selecting a link to Songs that I enjoy but B doesn t have or another similar expression of the concept stage . This may be determined by User A s browser sending a request to the web server middle tier for a comparison of the music libraries of the two network members stage . One way of implementing this feature is to submit a database query to request the most listened to music in User A s music library and then to determine which of those songs artists are not present in User B s music library stage . As shown in the figure at stage the query may be constructed to determine the N most listened to artists or songs that are in User A s music library but are not presently in User B s music library. The web server may then return a web page for display using User A s browser that shows those artists and or songs that are most popular with User A but are not presently contained in User B s music library stage . The presented page may include a link or other means to initiate a process of preparing and sending a recommendation or other type of processing output that assists in the discovery of music or other content to User B for those songs popular with User A that are not currently contained in User B s music library again at stage . If User A desires to send such a recommendation they may activate a recommend link associated with a particular artist or song and may be requested to provide text providing the recommendation stage . In response User A s browser sends such recommendation data to the web server middle tier stage . The web server middle tier may then execute a process or processes needed to provide the recommendation to User B s social music discovery network music inbox InboxDB element of at stage .

As yet another example of the possible outputs that may be obtained from the inventive system is a flowchart showing an example of the primary steps in the generation and display of a second recommendation feature or music discovery tool between two members of the social music discovery network of the present invention. This feature is based on determining which network member or network members are the first fan biggest fan or most recent listener s of a particular artist.

As shown in the leftmost column of the process may begin with User A accessing the profile page for Artist X stage . User A s browser requests the profile page data from the web server middle tier stage . As part of responding to the request the web server may perform one or more queries designed to identify which among User A s friends is the first fan biggest fan or most recent listener of the specified artist stage . For example as shown in the middle column of the figure the query may be designed to determine at what date each of User A s friends that is for each User B listed among User A s friends in the friends database FriendsDB added the artist in question to their respective music library stage . The friend who added the artists at the earliest date would be returned as the first fan or earliest fan .

Similarly as also shown in the middle column of the figure the query may be designed to determine which of User A s friends that is for each User B listed among User A s friends in the friends database FriendsDB listens to the specified artist most frequently stage . The friend who listens to the artist most frequently would be returned as the biggest fan .

Further as also shown in the middle column of the figure the query may be designed to determine which of User A s friends that is for each User B listed among User A s friends in the friends database FriendsDB most recently listened to the specified artist stage . The friend who listened to the artist most recently would be returned as the most recent listener .

The web server combines the responses to the requested queries as they relate to the specified artist i.e. Artist X in the figure and returns that information to User A for presentation by User A s browser stage either as part of the Artist profile page or as a separate page. Note that each of the queries are database queries via the DB APIs to the FriendsDB which stores all of User A s friends and MusicLibDB which stores the full music library and playcount and date added data for all network members .

The data collected and stored by the inventive system in the social music discovery databases element of may be used to generate a variety of useful music discovery tools. For example using the User Database element of the Music Library Database element of and appropriate filtering mechanisms the system may be used to determine for a specified artist the most popular songs enjoyed by other members of the network that are not presently contained in the music library of a network member based on playcount data for that artist contained in the music library database for other members of the network and the network member s own music library data .

Similarly the system may be used to recommend to a network member artists and or songs similar to that network member s favorite artists songs and that are not currently contained in the network member s music library based on playcount data for that network member and artist song similarity measures as filtered by the contents of the network member s music library . In these ways the inventive system may be used to generate outputs i.e. music discovery tools that assist a network member to discover music that is expected to be of interest to them. These outputs include recommendations as well as indications of music that is present in the music libraries of other members of the network such as friends or a group with similar interests but not in the library of the network member where such results may be filtered by emphasizing music that is popular with other members and or similar to artists contained in the network member s library for example .

In addition to the data mining and analysis methods described the inventive system may be used to facilitate novel business models. The inventive system provides data characterizing a network member s music library and listening tastes. This data combined with relevant processing methods may be used to generate recommendations suggestions for the purchase of music by known or previously unknown artists or specific songs. For example the system may be configured to generate notifications that a new artist or song by an established artist would be of interest to a network member and if desired indicate a purchasing method . The recommendation may be based on an analysis of the network member s music library listening tastes e.g. to determine the network member s favorite artists or songs and if desired similarity measures that indicate a closeness between an artist enjoyed by the network member and a second artist. Similarly the inventive system may be configured to notify a network member of related content e.g. ringtones concert tickets videos posters etc. that may be of interest based on that network member s favorite artists songs currently playing artist song and or relevant similarity measures.

For example in one embodiment of the invention a network member may be provided with recommendations notifications via email the network member s music inbox or other means for new album releases ringtones tickets posters etc. from his most listened to artists or currently playing artist. In another embodiment of the invention such recommendations notifications may be displayed within the Music Discovery Client in a format that is contextually related to the content being played by the network member s media player for example by displaying ringtones tickets or offers directly relevant to the music currently playing in the media player. Note that such contextually related recommendations notifications may be directly related to the content being played e.g. for the same artist or may be indirectly related or even unrelated to the content being played e.g. for a similar artist or type of music or for one of the network member s most popular artists . To facilitate this implementation the Music Discovery Client may send the backend server data about the now playing song artist the song or artist currently being played by a network member s media player and receive back and display a list of contextually related recommended products ringtones tickets posters .

Note that the contextually related products content may be determined based on an artist similarity measure as well as by other market related means. Such market related means include but are not limited to auction pricing similar to Google AdWords i.e. advertising products related to the now playing song or an artist popular with the network member with presentation and or sorting based on the bid each advertiser is willing to pay for placement and presumed clicks on their contextual ad. Note that the contextually related products and advertisements may also be displayed as a summary of offers relevant to some or all of the most listened to artists of the network member.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to example embodiments it is noted that practice of the invention is not limited to those embodiments. For example the inventive system may be utilized with any suitable or relevant similarity or compatibility measure or analysis means. Further the inventive system may be configured to utilize the collected data and processing methods to identify artists or songs of interest to one member of the network based on any of a multitude of factors including but not limited to popularity as indicated by playcounts for example similarity with other artists or songs inclusion or exclusion from another member s music library similarity to the listening tastes of a group of members etc. In addition as noted the inventive system may utilize collaborative filtering or other relevant recommendation methods to generate recommendations to a member of the network where such recommendations may be delivered to the network member s social music discovery network message inbox.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not intended to be restrictive of the broad invention and that this invention is not to be limited to the specific arrangements and constructions shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those with ordinary skill in the art.

