---

title: Parallel ion parking in ion traps
abstract: A method of controlling ion parking in an ion trap includes generating a trapping field for trapping cations and anions, and applying a tailored waveform during a period when ion/ion reactions occur to park first generation product ions with m/z values that differ from those of a cation and an anion in selected m/z regions. In particular, the tailored waveform inhibits simultaneously the reactions of ions of disparate m/z ratios.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08334503&OS=08334503&RS=08334503
owner: Purdue Research Foundation
number: 08334503
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060501
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 679 063 filed May 9 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. GM45372 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Electron capture dissociation ECD and electron transfer dissociation ETD are two analytically useful techniques for obtaining polypeptide amino acid sequence information. For ECD the electron capture cross section is predicted to be dependent on the square of the cation charge.A similar rate dependence upon charge has been observed for ion ion reactions.A complication associated with both ECD and ETD as currently practiced is the possibility for sequential electron capture or electron transfer reactions. For example first generation products can undergo sequential reactions that lead to higher generation products to the point where in the extreme case all cations are neutralized. Such sequential reactions are problematic because they can decrease the overall signal level of informative fragment ions and create spectral complication due to the appearance of internal fragment ions. According to some researchers the maximum obtainable fragmentation efficiency in ECD is 43.75 for doubly charged ions and is not likely to exceed 50 for higher charge states while other researchershave reported that ECD efficiency is usually 30 . Furthermore it has been suggested that secondary internal product ions are minimal when a significant amount of the precursor ion remains unreacted and the maximum efficiency is reached when two thirds of the precursor ions have reacted.Ideally however it is desirable to convert all precursor ions into structurally informative products. To this end it is desirable to minimize contributions from second and higher generation sequential reactions while maximizing the fraction of parent ions that undergo reaction.

It has been shown that rates of selected ion ion reactions in a quadrupole ion trap can be inhibited by applying a single frequency dipolar resonance excitation voltage to the end caps in a process termed ion parking .This method is effective for parking ions of a selected m z ratio as the resonant excitation increases the velocities of the selected ions greatly reducing their reaction rates and also reducing the spatial overlap of oppositely charged ions. Alternatively some have employed the use of a dipolar DC voltage across the endcaps to control charge neutralization in a quadrupole ion trap mass spectrometer.The method is effective at parking ions above a selected m z ratio by physically separating the cation and anion clouds on the basis of pseudopotential well depth which is related to m z ratio under a fixed set of ion storage conditions.

The present invention is directed to a method of controlling ion parking in an ion trap by generating a trapping field for trapping cations and anions and applying a tailored waveform during a period when ion ion reactions occur to park first generation product ions with m z values that differ from those of a cation and an anion in selected m z regions. In particular the tailored waveform inhibits simultaneously the reactions of ions of disparate m z ratios.

The tailored waveform can be a filtered noise field that resonantly accelerates ions over a broad m z range. In such implementations the filtered noise field accelerates all ions other than the cation and anion in the selected m z regions. Further the filtered noise field allows a reaction to occur between the cation and anion but inhibits further reaction by any product that fall within the range of Ions that undergo acceleration.

Further features and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following description and from the claims.

Electron transfer dissociation ETD in a tandem mass spectrometer is an analytically useful ion ion reaction technique for deriving polypeptide sequence information but its utility can be limited by sequential reactions of the products. Sequential reactions lead to neutralization of some products as well as to signals from products derived from multiple cleavages that can be difficult to interpret.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a method and system of ion parking to inhibit sequential ETD fragmentation in a quadrupole ion trap is provided. The method is based on parking all ions other than those in selected regions of m z. Since this method is intended to inhibit simultaneously the reactions of ions of disparate m z ratios it is referred to as parallel ion parking . The concept involves the continuous application of a tailored waveform during the ion ion reaction period that does not affect the reagent anion and analyte cation but leads to the parking of all first generation product ions with m z values that differ significantly from those of the reactants.

In a particular implementation a system and method of inhibiting sequential ETD fragmentation in a quadrupole ion trap is provided for the reaction of a triply protonated peptide with nitrobenzene anions. A tailored waveform in this case a filtered noise field FNF is applied during the ion ion reaction time to accelerate simultaneously first generation product Ions and thereby inhibit their further reaction. This results in approximately a 50 gain in the relative yield of first generation products and allows for the conversion of more than 90 of the original parent ions into first generation products. Gains are expected to be even larger when higher charge state cations are used as the rates of sequential reaction become closer to the initial reaction rate.

Specifically a filtered noise field FNF waveform is employed to resonantly accelerate ions over a broad m z range. If the FNF waveform is chosen so that it accelerates all ions other than the desired cation and anion then it allows one reaction to occur but inhibit further reaction by any products that fall within the range of ions that undergo acceleration. An example of the time and frequency domain of such a waveform is shown in respectively with the indicated frequencies excluded so that the reactant ions are not excited. The indicated waveform includes a series of frequencies spaced by 1 kHz each with an amplitude of a few hundred millivolts. Gaps in frequency are selected to coincide with the z dimension frequencies of motion associated with the reactant ions. The situation depicted in is that of a relatively high m z cation in reaction with a relatively low m z anion. For a given set of ion trap storage conditions the cation freguency is lower than the anion frequency. Under typical conditions e.g. ion trap radius of 1 cm ion trapping frequency of 1 MHz ion trapping amplitude of a few hundred volts the cation frequency is usually in the low tens of kHz while the anion frequency is in the high tens of kHz to low hundreds of kHz.

The following example is described below for purposes of illustrating the invention and is not to be construed as a limitation of the invention.

In a particular experiment the tailored waveform ETD was applied to reactions of a multiply protonated peptide. Methanol and glacial acetic acid were Purchased from Mallinckrodt Phillipsburg N.J. . Angiotensin I RKRARKE and nitrobenzene were obtained from Sigma St. Louis Mo. . Neurotensin was obtained from Bachem King of Prussia Pa. . All experiments were performed on a Hitachi San Jose Calif. M 8000 3 DQ ion trap mass spectrometer adapted for ion ion reactions. Details of the ion trap mass spectrometer are described in Reid G. E. Wells J. M. Badman E. R. McLuckey S. A. 2003 222 243 258 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. In a typical experiment peptide cations were formed using nano electrosprayand injected into the ion trap for 1 s. Nitrobenzene anions were formed using atmospheric sampling glow discharge ionization ASGDI and introduced via a hole in the ring electrode 50 ms .Ion ion reactions were allowed to take place for a given period 300 ms during which an FNF waveform generated by the instrument software was used to inhibit the further reaction of product ions. Mass analysis was performed by resonance ejection. Spectra shown here are an average of 250 scans.

The charge squared dependence of ion ion reactions has implications for the time evolution of different generation products derived from a given starting population. In the case of ion ion reactions that lead to reduction of charge without any dissociation the relative amounts of the different products are straightforward to predict. Assuming that reaction rates scale with the square of the charge of the cation singly charged anion case and that there Is a large excess of anions pseudo first order kinetics can be assumedand a plot such as that of applies. In this case a starting population of 3 ions is converted to 2 1 and neutral products. The maximum relative quantity of 2 ions that can be formed is about 50 of the initial ion population and this will occur when the quantity of unreacted ions the 3 ions Is approximately equal to that of the ions that have reacted twice the 1 ions . Ion parking with a single frequency has been demonstrated as a means of converting nearly all of the initial Ion population into first generation products with minimal formation of higher generation products in non dissociative reactions.

In a case like electron transfer where each reaction step can lead to fragmentation along with the charge reduction the picture is more complex. A 3 ion can react and fragment to form a 2 product ion and a neutral product molecule or it can react and fragment to form two 1 product ions and the two cases will result in different subsequent reaction rates for the first generation product. This complicates quantitative prediction of the point at which the maximum amount of first generation products will be present and what the maximum amount will be. Nevertheless as long as the rates of subsequent reactions are appreciable a maximum in the amount of first generation products that can be formed cannot approach 100 . A means for inhibiting the reaction rates of all first generation product ions simultaneously allows for the formation of first generation products to approach 100 .

Adjustment of the waveform amplitude is performed so that reaction rates are diminished as much as possible without leading to collision induced dissociation or ion ejection from the trap. In principle the m z range between the 3 angiotensin I ions and the nitrobenzene anions could also have been included in the FNF waveform but as few ions are formed in this region during the reaction frequencies associated with the m z range between the cation and anions were not included in the FNF used here. A number of changes are apparent when the results of and are compared with those of and for instance the difference in the relative abundances of the 1 and 2 peptide ions as 2 is greatly increased. The relative abundances of fragment ions that are observed as 2 ions are increased in and and the 1 charge states of those same ions are less abundant. This is notable for the cand zsequence ions as well as for the ions that arise from loss of NHand loss of HN C from the peptide. This indicates that as first generation products these ions are formed mostly as 2 species and the 1 ions observed in are largely the result of a subsequent charge reduction reaction. Interestingly the loss of 59 Da from the 1 ion believed to be the loss of HN C NH from the arginine side chain is not observed to decrease when the FNF is applied which suggests that it is formed largely as a first generation product. The c cand z z sequence ions show little change in abundance when the waveform is applied indicating that they are also formed largely as first generation products because of the absence of their corresponding 2 ions from spectra obtained in the absence of ion parking.

The gain in first generation products can be estimated by summing the abundances of the first generation products and dividing that sum by the sum of all ion abundances. This can then give a percentage of observed ions that have reacted once. Results of doing so for several peptides are reported in Table 1 both with and without the parallel parking.

As can be seen there is an approximately 50 gain in first generation products when the waveform is applied. This estimate is a lower limit because the method for determining the percentage of first generation products does not account for those sequential reactions that lead to complete neutralization. Since such products are expected to be formed much more in the absence of the waveform the percentage of first generation products is overestimated on a relative basis from the data in the absence of ion parking. Use of the waveform allows more than 90 of the total signal to be accumulated in first generation products as compared with roughly 60 in the absence of the waveform. Gains in the conversion of precursor ions to first generation products ion via the use of this technique can be larger when it is applied to more highly charged reactant ions as the difference in rate between the first reaction and subsequent reactions decreases resulting in a lower maximum for first generation products. In addition for larger systems the range of internal Ions which could potentially be formed by sequential reactions Increases greatly.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention the parallel ion parking technique is not restricted to ETD or ion ion reactions in general. It can find utility with any ion trap activation method in which the activating agents e.g. ions electrons photons metastable atoms fast atoms and ion populations are present in narrowly defined regions of space. Spatial overlap of the ion population . and the activating agents provides for activation to occur. A degree of selectivity for products derived from a first generation fragmentation process is provided by parallel ion parking. Therefore improved conversion of parent ions to first generation product ions can also be anticipated for techniques such as infrared multi photon dissociation IRMPD or any other form of beam based activation method. The linear trap may be a linear ion trap. In some implementations a nano electrospray is employed to form analyte ions that are injected into the ion trap. Further any form of ionization capable of forming ions of opposite polarity to the analyte Ions may be employed. Reagent ions may be introduced into the ion trap from an external ion source. The product ions may be subjected to mass analysis after transfer from the ion trap to another form of mass analyzer. Ion ion reactions may occur for a period in the range between about 30 and 300 ms.

 6 Zubarev R. A. Horn D. M. Fridriksson E. K. Kelleher N. L. Kruger N A Lewis M A. Carpenter B. K. McLafferty F. W. 2000 72 563 573

 8 Gorshkov M. C. Masselon C D. Nikolaev E. N. Udseth H. R. Pasa Tolic L. Smith R. D. 2004 234 131 136

