---

title: System and method for sending and receiving images via wireless audio channels
abstract: A system and method for adding images to a wireless audio service. The invention is adapted for use in a system for wirelessly transmitting and receiving an audio data stream and includes an arrangement for providing an image and a mechanism for inserting the image into the data stream prior to transmission thereof. In the illustrative embodiment, a third arrangement is provided for receiving and decoding the data stream to extract and a fourth arrangement is included for displaying the image while the audio signal is output. The fourth arrangement may be a digital radio, i.e., a radio adapted to process digital signals, such as a satellite radio, high definition radio, digital AM or other suitable primarily audio wireless communication system. In a specific embodiment, the invention includes an arrangement for automatically inserting a selected image in the stream. In the illustrative embodiment, this arrangement includes a source selector, an image editor coupled to the source selector, an image resizer, an image compressor, and an arrangement for allowing a user to add text, color, style and/or other information to an image output by the compressor. The invention further includes an arrangement for adding images from an archive to the stream and a graphical picture show composer for providing an image queue. An image server is included for feeding the image queue to the output data stream provided by a system server such as an XM or Sirius satellite radio server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08121534&OS=08121534&RS=08121534
owner: Sirius XM Radio Inc.
number: 08121534
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060927
---
This invention relates to communications systems and methods. Specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for broadcasting content via wireless networks.

Numerous over the air wireless audio broadcast services are available for the consumer including conventional AM and FM radio and more recently satellite e.g. XM radio. Additional service offerings are in development including High Definition Radio and Digital AM radio.

Currently these offerings are audio only. That is conventional wireless broadcast technologies provide only an audio signal for the consumer.

However these audio only services would be enhanced by the transmission and display of visual information including images that are synchronized and relevant to associated audio services.

Unfortunately current and planned audio only wireless broadcast systems have no means for providing such visual imagery. Accordingly a need exists in the art for a system or method for providing images synchronized and relevant to associated audio program content in a wireless audio broadcast network.

The need in the art is addressed by the system and method of the present invention. The invention is adapted for use in a system for wirelessly transmitting and receiving an audio data stream and includes an arrangement for providing an image and a mechanism for inserting the image into the data stream prior to transmission thereof.

In the illustrative embodiment a third arrangement is provided for receiving and decoding the data stream to extract and a fourth arrangement is included for displaying the image while the audio signal is output. The fourth arrangement may be a digital radio i.e. a radio adapted to process digital signals such as a satellite radio high definition radio digital AM or other suitable primarily audio wireless communication system.

In a specific embodiment the invention includes an arrangement for automatically inserting a selected image in the stream. In the illustrative embodiment this arrangement includes a source selector an image editor coupled to the source selector an image resizer an image compressor and an arrangement for allowing a user to add text color style and or other information to an image output by the compressor. The invention further includes an arrangement for adding images from an archive to the stream and a graphical picture show composer for providing an image queue.

An image server is included for feeding the image queue to the output data stream provided by a system server such as an XM or Sirius satellite radio server.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the present invention would be of significant utility.

Selected images from the cameras may also be sent to a video recorder for storage. Images from a digital camera and stock images may be stored offline via storage elements and . The browser allows a user to select individual images to be streamed in accordance with the present teachings. The storage elements may also supply video from a camcorder or a source of stock video . The stored video may be edited via a player editor and individual frames therefrom may be captured manually via manual frame capture system .

Images from the selected source are output by the source selector to an image editor . The image is then sized for a desired format by an image resizer . Current typical image sizes are 130 by 130 pixels to 176 by 220 pixels. In the illustrative embodiment the images are formatted in accordance with a compressed JPEG format at 176 by 220 pixels.

In practice the editor and resizer are implemented in software running on a microprocessor in response to inputs from a user via the interface . The image is then compressed by a conventional image compressor . As is known in the art the image compressor may be implemented in software or in hardware. The output of the compressor is input to routine or element adapted to effect picture message composition with additional input from a user with respect to text color time duration etc. The composite image is fed to a real time graphical picture show composer . The picture show composer allows a user to arrange the output order of the images in the queue. The images are output via a picture show server . These images may be stored in an archive and selected for output via a scheduler and the multiplexer . The multiplexer allows a user to select between a currently composed show via the output of the Real time Graphical Picture Show Composer and a program stored in the archive via the user interface .

The system is adapted for use with a baseline wireless audio system . In the illustrative embodiment the baseline audio system is a satellite digital audio radio service SDARS system without imaging support. However those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the present teachings are not limited thereto. The present invention is not limited to the baseline system shown. The invention may be used with other baseline systems without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

In the illustrative embodiment the baseline system includes numerous audio only channels and a first audio channel to which transmitted image visual data from is synchronized and associated.

Each audio channel includes a Source a Song Program Scheduler and an Audio Encoder . The Source can be a stored database of audio songs programs or can be an audio stream provided by some external audio source. Along with each song program in the source is PAD data Program Associated Data . The common PAD info provided by the Baseline Audio Only system is Artist Text Labels and Song Text Labels low bandwidth data . Specific Songs Programs from the Source are scheduled and requested for transmission by the Song Program Scheduler . Upon a specific Song Program being requested by the Song Program Scheduler for transmission the Source begins output of the audio data along with the PAD data for this Song Program. The audio data is sent to the Audio Encoder which compresses the audio data to minimize over the air bandwidth usage.

The Service Layer receives the output of each Audio Encoder along with PAD data and also receives the output of other non audio Service Types as in the Image Data from the Data Server . These inputs are the Service Components. The Service Layer generates the Payload Channels that carry the Service Components. The Payload Channel is shown in and

The Transport Layer receives the Payload Channels from the Service Layer . The Transport Layer applies forward error correction data interleaving and multiplexing of the Payload Channels into the 432 msec Frame shown in

The Physical Layer receives input from the Transport Layer . The Physical Layer defines the physical transport signal including modulation. The User Interface programs the Song Program Scheduler for each Audio Channel so that the desired sequence of Songs Programs are played at the desired times. The same User Interface also programs the Image Show Scheduler so that desired Picture Image Shows are scheduled to begin at the desired times and thus synchronized with the associated audio channel Song Program. This method of audio to image synchronization is depicted in and is described in more detail further below.

Another method of audio to image synchronization is as follows The User Interface programs the Image Show Scheduler to start playing specific Picture Image Shows whenever the audio source outputs a specific PAD data pattern i.e. specific Artist and or Song Text Labels. The Image Show Scheduler monitors the PAD output of the specified audio source for the specified Artist and or Song Labels. When a matching Labels are detected the Image Show Scheduler starts the playing of the specified Picture Image Show. This method of audio to image synchronization is depicted in and is described in more detail further below.

In the sub system consisting of all components in the chain leading up to and including the Real time Graphical Picture Show Composer is referred to herein as a Picture Show Studio . An overall system that contains multiple Picture Shows linked to multiple Audio Channels is shown in . In this figure the Picture Show Server is extended to receive image data input from multiple Picture Show Studios or multiple archived Picture Shows as selected by the source multiplexers . The Picture Show Server combines the image data from the multiple input sources via a Statistical Multiplexer Mux and outputs the image data onto a single output stream to the Data Server . This output stream to the Data Server and into the system as a Data Service is a fixed bit rate data stream. The bit rate for this Data Service is configured to a value suitable to handle the average bit rate requirements of all Picture Shows currently playing. Each Picture Show image data stream can be configured to maintain a different average bit rate. In the illustrative embodiment the Picture Show Server enforces a rule that the combined average bit rates of all the currently playing Picture Shows do not exceed the fixed bit rate available for the Data Service. The Statistical Mux handles the cases where the instantaneous combined bit rate of all the currently playing Picture Shows exceeds the available fixed Data Service bit rate. Currently available statistical multiplexing methods are used to accomplish this including longer term buffering of input image data and short term reduction of bit rate by the dropping of image frames or increasing image data compression at the expense of image quality.

The images output by the picture show server are inserted into the digital data stream as illustrated in and output by a wireless radio data server .

As shown in and each Payload Channel contains a SCH Service Control Header and respectively. The SCH provides information used to de multiplex the respective Payload Channel into individual Service Components.

As illustrated in the Picture Show Service reference message correlates audio service components with image data messages . The reference message is used by the source decoder to associate the picture shows with the audio components. That is on request from the microcontroller the data component extractor extracts and outputs a raw bit stream to the micro controller of as discussed more fully below.

As discussed more fully below in an alternative embodiment the invention associates images to Artists Song Labels by means of the Picture Show Label Reference Message as shown in

In the illustrative implementation the payload channel is transmitted over the air via a satellite network such as that depicted in .

The image decoder converts the data into a format suitable for display and outputs the signal to a display . The decoder also interfaces with a memory . The memory is provided to allow the user to store audio and image data in response to input from a user via an interface . The decoder stores and retrieves images from memory as appropriate based on the signals decoded from the channel. The memory also provides a means of storing images that are part of a Picture Show that are transmitted at a slower rate than the rate intended for playback. The receiver caches all these images to the memory over a relatively long period of time. After all of the images of a Picture Show are acquired the Picture Show may then be displayed on user request or based on signals decoded from the channel. When the playback rate approaches 66 milliseconds 15 frames per second and greater the Picture Show may be categorized as a video application. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive system is enabled to advantageously transmit and display video information over conventionally audio only channels as well as a slide show per se.

As shown in the software includes code for initializing the system and resetting a message buffer at step . At step the system sets the state to search for a message sync pulse. At step the system searches for a next application data packet in the transparent data. As shown in each packet is an SID packet and has a packet header application data with the Rolling Image messages and a cyclic redundancy check bit or bits.

Next at steps and the software performs a CRC check. If the packets pass the CRC check i.e. no bit errors then at step the state is checked. If the system is still in synch search state then at step the system searches the application packet for a sync word. If the sync word is not found step or if the CRC check fails at step then the system returns to step and continues with the message buffer reset. If the synch word if found at step then the state is set to FoundSync and at step the message length field following the sync word is read. At step the application packet payload is appended to the message buffer. Next at step the accumulated message length is updated at step . Clearly these steps serve to accumulate application packets to generate a complete message. At step the system checks to determine if the accumulated message length is equal to the total message length. If not then it retrieves the next packet at step . If so the message accumulation process is complete step and a CRC check is performed on the message step .

At step if the CRC check on the message fails the message buffer is reset and the code returns to step to retrieve the next data application packet. If however at step the CRC check on the message passes then at step the Rolling Image message is parsed.

Next at step the system checks to determine if the Rolling Image message is a content type message. If so then at step the message is image data and is stored in a Content Buffer. Then at step the Picture Show Player is informed of receipt of a new Content message.

If at step the system determines that the message is a control type message then at step the message is stored in a Control Information table. At step the Picture Show Player is informed of receipt of new control information.

Here at step the current picture show control information i.e. from the reference message is procured. Next at step the current service ID for the current user selected audio channel is obtained. Then at step the system checks to determine if Picture Show mode is enabled on the current service ID. If so at step the system acquires a picture show ID from the reference message . If not then the system returns to a wait state before step .

Next at step the system checks to determine whether a new Picture Show Image message is received with the Picture Show ID acquired in step . Here the system is checking the image message buffer for an image with the Picture Show ID identified in step . If so then the image is acquired in step decoded in step and displayed in step . If not then the system returns to a wait state before step .

Of note in the above Picture Show Image Message structure is the Image Transition Effect field. This field specifies to the receiver the image transition effect to apply between the currently displayed Picture Show Image and the newly received Picture Show Image that will be displayed next.

The present teaching has disclosed the delivery of visual image data and methods of associating and synchronizing this image data to Audio Channels in connection with an existing conventional radio system. In the primary use case this visual image data is relatively slowly updated to minimize bandwidth usage in audio centric systems e.g. 5 second image update period for a Picture Show. However as mentioned above using the same methods described here and with additional bit rate allocated to the utilized Transparent Data Service Component faster image updates may be implemented. When these image update periods approach 66 msec 15 frames sec a video application is achieved using the same methods described. That is those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive system is enabled to advantageously transmit and display video information over conventionally audio only channels as well as a slide show per se.

Thus the present invention has been described herein with reference to a particular embodiment for a particular application. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the present teachings will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof.

It is therefore intended by the appended claims to cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

