---

title: Multiple terminal collaboration system
abstract: Systems and methods relate to collaboration systems having multiple terminals per user. The collaboration system may include first and second collaboration agents, where the first collaboration agent is operable to transmit over a telecommunications network a collaboration call invitation from a first user first terminal associated with the first collaboration agent to a second user first terminal associated with a second collaboration agent; to connect a first communication session if the second user first terminal accepts the collaboration call invitation; to transmit a collaboration call handle to at least the first user first terminal and a first user second terminal associated with the first collaboration agent; to transmit a collaboration command from the first user second terminal to a second user second terminal associated with the second collaboration agent; and to connect a second communication session between the first user second terminal and the second user second terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433756&OS=08433756&RS=08433756
owner: TP Lab, Inc.
number: 08433756
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061002
---
This invention relates generally to communications particularly to a collaboration system with multiple terminals.

Collaboration refers to processes wherein people work together to develop an idea create a design or generally achieve a shared goal. In a local environment people collaborate in the confines of a cubicle an office or a conference room using tools such as a whiteboard flip charts or a projector to share data information while exchanging ideas in a face to face fashion.

In the new economy of multi national corporations mobile work forces home offices outsourcing and globalization remote collaboration becomes increasingly critical to the vitality of businesses.

Remote collaboration naturally begins with a telephone call. Oftentimes during the telephone conversation a participant wants to send a document to others so they can continue their conversation over the document. In one example a product manager wants to present a product proposal to his customer. In another example a project manager wants to share an up to date schedule spreadsheet with her product development manager. In one example a fashion designer wants to share a preliminary drawing of the summer fashion line with his advisor. In a further example two software engineers want to discuss a piece of programming code.

There are many existing tools for collaboration ranging from telephone email instant messaging to elaborated integrated solutions such as the Microsoft Netmeeting Skype or Yahoo Messenger.

In one example a manager uses her desktop telephone to call a human resource representative to discuss salary merit increases for the upcoming fiscal year. During the discussion the human resource representative wants to share a document having a competitive salary analysis with the manager. The human resource representative sends the document as an email attachment. They have to wait until the manager receives the email before they can discuss the details of the document.

In another example a hardware designer uses NetMeeting to discuss a prototype schematic with his manager. He calls the manager over the phone to ask her to run the NetMeeting application on her personal computer and log on to the corporate network. In the mean time the hardware engineer will have to wait until his manager is ready.

In one embodiment Jack a salesperson visits a customer. Jack calls a product manager in the corporate office about closing a deal with the customer. During discussion the product manager wants to send Jack an updated price list through Yahoo Instant Messaging IM service. Jack has to log on to Yahoo IM service and start an instant messaging session with the product manager.

These tools despite their respective functionalities do not address the natural usage of collaboration which begins with a telephone call and proceeds with other collaboration functions such as sharing a document.

Therefore there is a need for a system to provide functionalities conforming to the natural progression of collaboration.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention systems and methods relate to collaboration systems having multiple terminals per user. The collaboration system may include first and second collaboration agents where the first collaboration agent is operable to transmit over a telecommunications network a collaboration call invitation from a first user first terminal associated with the first collaboration agent to a second user first terminal associated with a second collaboration agent to connect a first communication session if the second user first terminal accepts the collaboration call invitation to transmit a collaboration call handle to at least the first user first terminal and a first user second terminal associated with the first collaboration agent to transmit a collaboration command from the first user second terminal to a second user second terminal associated with the second collaboration agent and to connect a second communication session between the first user second terminal and the second user second terminal.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a method of collaborating using a telecommunications system may include transmitting a collaboration call invitation from a first user first terminal associated with the system to a second user first terminal associated with the system connecting a first communication session if the second user accepts the collaboration call invitation transmitting a collaboration call handle to at least the first user first terminal and a first user second terminal associated with the system transmitting a collaboration command from the first user second terminal to a second user second terminal associated with the system and connecting a second communication session between the first user second terminal and the second user second terminal.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a system for collaborating between a first user and a second user using a telecommunications network may include a first collaboration platform and a second collaboration platform wherein the first collaboration platform includes a first user first terminal a first user second terminal and a first collaboration agent and a second collaboration platform includes a second user first terminal a second user second terminal and a second collaboration agent.

According to one or more embodiments of the present invention a product of the present invention may include a computer program product tangibly stored on a computer usable medium and containing instructions operable to cause a computer to perform a method in accordance with the present invention.

The advantages of this invention are best understood after reading the detailed technical description and in relation to existing collaboration processes. Nonetheless some of the advantages include a more natural flow of collaboration being with a phone call a more user friendly form of spontaneous collaboration involving exchange of data including electronic documents images and video and a combination of collaboration functionalities that hopefully make collaborating easier more effective and more efficient.

Other aspects features advantages etc. will become apparent to one skilled in the art when the description of the invention herein is taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates a telecommunications system for collaboration. A telecommunications collaboration system may include a collaboration network having collaboration platforms and . Collaboration platform may allow a first user to collaborate with a second user using collaboration platform .

Exemplary embodiments of collaboration network may include for instance a voice network such as a Voice over IP VoIP network an Instant Message IM based voice network a corporate voice network or a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . Other embodiments of a collaboration network may include as well for instance a data network such as the Internet a service provider data network a corporate data network or a corporate virtual private network VPN .

Collaboration may arise in almost any context and for almost any reason. Commonly however user may collaborate with user for a business purpose such as negotiating a contract designing a fashion line solving a field problem brainstorming a marketing strategy or finalizing a financial settlement.

Collaboration platform may provide a plurality of collaboration functionalities. In one embodiment a collaboration functionality may include a conversational functionality. User may use the conversational functionality to talk with user . In one embodiment a collaboration functionality may include a document exchange functionality. User may use the document exchange functionality to share a document with user . In one embodiment the document exchange functionality may include sending receiving or displaying the document.

User and user may collaborate over a collaboration call between collaboration platform and collaboration platform . Collaboration call may include a voice communication session. User may talk with user over the voice communication session. Collaboration call may include a data communication session. User may send or receive a document over the data communication session. In one embodiment users and may converse while exchanging a document.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary collaboration platform . Collaboration platform may include a collaboration agent and at least two terminals . Collaboration agent and terminals and may communicate over a terminal network .

Terminal network may provide voice transport capabilities and data transport capabilities. In one embodiment terminal network may include an Internet Protocol IP network. In one embodiment the voice transport capabilities may enable a Voice over IP VoIP call. In one embodiment the voice transport capabilities may enable an Instant Message IM based voice call. In one or more embodiments terminal network may include the Internet a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network a service provider terminal network a corporate data network or a corporate virtual private network VPN . In another embodiment terminal network may include a cellular network such as a CDMA2000 network a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA network a third generation 3G network a CDMA 1x Evolution Data Optimized 1xEV DO network a High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA network or an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network. In a further embodiment terminal network may include a wired network such as an Ethernet or a wireless network such as a Wi Fi network. In one embodiment terminal network may include a system bus. In an additional embodiment terminal network may include an application programming interface API .

Terminal and terminal are two separate computing devices. Terminal may include a network interface module associated with network address . In one embodiment network address may include an IP address. In another embodiment network address may include a system bus address. In a further embodiment network address may include a functionality name. Terminal may use network address to communicate with collaboration agent . Similarly terminal may include a network interface module associated with network address . Network address differs from network address .

Collaboration agent may include a network interface module associated with network address . Using network addresses collaboration agent may communicate with terminal via network address and or terminal via network address . Terminals and may provide a user interface to user to access one or more collaboration functionalities in furtherance of the communication between collaboration agent and terminal .

Terminal may include voice capabilities that support the conversational functionality. For instance terminal may include voice processing capabilities such as conversion of voice signals between analog and digital conversion between different digital voice signals compressing and decompressing digital voice signals jitter buffer management or voice activity detection. Terminal may include voice network capabilities for establishing a voice communication session and for sending and receiving voice signals over the voice communication session. Terminal may include a voice output device such as a speaker and a voice input device such as a microphone. Terminal may include an input device such as a dial pad a stylus or navigation keys for user to make or receive a collaboration voice call.

Terminal may include terminal capabilities list . Terminal capabilities list may describe the voice capabilities of terminal . In one embodiment terminal capabilities list may include a description of voice networking capabilities for transmitting and receiving voice signals over terminal network . In another embodiment terminal capabilities list may include a description of voice processing capabilities such as media transfer protocols supported codecs data transfer frame rates jitter buffer parameters and or voice encryption methods. In a further embodiment terminal capabilities list may include speaker and or microphone specifications such as dynamic range or frequency range.

In one or more embodiments terminal may include for instance a desk phone a corporate desk phone a cellular phone a video phone a smart phone an IP phone a customer service representative CSR terminal or voice conferencing equipment.

Terminal may include data capabilities that support the document exchange functionality. Terminal may include data network capabilities for establishing a data communication session and for sending and receiving a document over the data communication session. In one embodiment document may include a text document. In another embodiment document may be a spreadsheet. In a further embodiment document may be a PowerPoint presentation. In an additional embodiment document may include a media file such as an image a video clip or a voice file. In one embodiment terminal may include a display such as a graphical display screen for displaying document . In another embodiment terminal may include document processing capabilities such as editing or encrypting decrypting document . In a further embodiment terminal may include an input device such as a keyboard a mouse a touch screen or a stylus for user to select send receive display or edit document .

Terminal may include terminal capabilities list . Terminal capabilities list may describe the data capabilities of terminal . In one embodiment terminal capabilities list may include a description of data network capabilities for transmitting and receiving documents over a terminal network. In another embodiment terminal capabilities list may include a description of data processing capabilities such as supported protocols for document transfer document encryption methods or supported document types. In a further embodiment terminal capabilities list may include display characteristics such as display screen size display resolution or display color depth.

In one or more embodiments terminal may be a computer a personal desktop computer a laptop computer a Personal Data Assistant PDA a smart phone a point of sale POS terminal an automated teller machine a computer aided vending machine a computer aided kiosk or a data conferencing equipment.

Collaboration agent may include terminal capabilities list and terminal capabilities list . In one embodiment collaboration agent may obtain terminal capabilities list from terminal and or list from terminal . Collaboration agent may select a terminal to handle a collaboration functionality during collaboration call based on terminal capabilities lists . In one embodiment collaboration agent may select terminal to handle the conversational functionality based on terminal capabilities list while terminal is selected to handle the document exchange functionality based on terminal capabilities list .

Referring to a block diagram illustrates data flow between collaboration components during a collaboration call . Collaboration platform may include collaboration agent terminals and . Terminal may include voice capabilities that support conversational functionality. Terminal may include data capabilities that support document exchange functionality. Terminal may include network address .

Collaboration platform may include collaboration agent terminals and . Terminal may include voice capabilities that support conversational functionality. Terminal may include data capabilities that support document exchange functionality. Collaboration agent may include terminal capabilities list for terminal and terminal capabilities list for terminal .

Although depicted as having two separate collaboration platforms and collaboration platforms and in actuality may be one collaboration platform interfacing with two separate users and . The system is not limited to situations where collaboration occurs between two distinct users and associated with two distinct platforms and . In fact the situation often may arise such as between co workers at a company office complex where both users and are associated with the same collaboration platform and their terminals and are associated with a single collaboration agent .

Referring to a flow diagram illustrates actions that may be carried out to perform a collaboration call process in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present invention. An exemplary collaboration call process may include some or all of the enumerated actions. Portions of the data flow for actions associated with process are illustrated in .

In action of process user may use collaboration platform to initiate a collaboration call to collaboration platform used by user . In one embodiment user may initiate collaboration call using the conversational functionality. In one embodiment user may have a collaboration number . The collaboration number may include a network address for terminal . In one embodiment collaboration number may be a telephone number. Moreover the telephone number may correspond to the network address for terminal . In another embodiment collaboration number may be a user name. In a further embodiment collaboration number may be an employee number. In an attempt to communicate with user user may input collaboration number using terminal .

In action terminal may compose and send a collaboration invitation for collaboration call . Composing may include taking available information and packaging it in a format usable to a recipient computer. The available information may include both information input by the user as well as information known to the composing terminal . Collaboration invitation may include collaboration number . In one embodiment collaboration invitation may include network address . Terminal may send collaboration invitation to collaboration agent .

In action collaboration agent may receive and process collaboration invitation from terminal . Collaboration agent may extract network address and collaboration number from collaboration invitation . Based on collaboration number collaboration agent may determine collaboration agent as the destination of collaboration call .

In action according to one embodiment collaboration agent may connect and consult with a datastore . In one embodiment datastore may include for instance memory flash memory or a hard disk. In another embodiment for example datastore may include a database. Datastore may include a plurality of collaboration numbers wherein each collaboration number e.g. number may be associated with a collaboration agent e.g. agent . In this illustration datastore may include collaboration number and associated collaboration agent . Collaboration agent may search for collaboration number within the datastore and identify collaboration agent as the intermediate destination of collaboration call .

In action collaboration agent may compose and send a collaboration invitation . Collaboration invitation may indicate that conversational functionality is requested. Collaboration invitation optionally may include network address . Collaboration agent may send collaboration invitation to collaboration agent .

In action collaboration agent may receive and process collaboration invitation . Based on the indicated conversational functionality in collaboration invitation collaboration agent may select terminal based on terminal capabilities list .

In action collaboration agent may compose and send a collaboration invitation . In one embodiment collaboration agent may extract network address from collaboration invitation and include network address into a collaboration invitation . Collaboration agent may send collaboration invitation to terminal .

In action terminal may receive and process collaboration invitation . In one embodiment terminal may extract network address from collaboration invitation and notify user of the incoming collaboration invitation .

Although the collaboration invitations and are addressed individually for purposes of describing the details of process collaboration invitations and may be conceptualized as first second and third parts of one collaboration invitation sent from terminal to terminal passing through collaboration agents and . Depending on the implementation of the system and process collaboration invitations and may be substantially identical or they may be modified at each collaboration agent .

In action user may use terminal to establish voice communication session with terminal either directly using network address or indirectly via collaboration agent and collaboration agent . Establishing or initiating voice communication session may include sending an acceptance command signifying that the user has accepted the invitation instructing the system to transmit voice communication signals and instructing terminal to process the transmitted voice signals it receives. The voice session is connected when the system executes the acceptance command. Voice communication session may comprise for example three voice communication session parts and . Terminal may establish voice communication part with collaboration agent . Collaboration agent may establish voice communication part with collaboration agent . Collaboration agent may establish voice communication session part with terminal .

In action a collaboration call handle may be sent by collaboration agent to terminals and . Likewise collaboration agent may send collaboration call handle to terminals and . Collaboration call handle may reference collaboration call .

In action terminals and may receive and process collaboration call handle . Likewise terminals and may receive and process collaboration call handle .

Receipt of the collaboration call handle enables a user to initiate a second communication session of collaboration call which in process would be a data communication session using the second terminals here data terminals and . Once initiated the second communication session here data communication session is connected when a collaboration command is executed here communicating data between terminal and .

In action user may instruct terminal to transmit a specified document . While user is conversing with user over voice communication session user may want to send a document to user . In one embodiment user may use terminal to enter or select the file name and or directory location of document .

In action terminal may obtain document or a copy thereof. In one embodiment terminal may obtain document from a storage device such as a hard disk in terminal . In another embodiment terminal may obtain document from a network.

In action terminal may compose and send a document transmission command to collaboration agent . Document transmission command may include collaboration call handle . In one embodiment document transmission command may include document .

In action collaboration agent may receive and process document transmission command . Collaboration agent may extract collaboration call handle and document from document transmission command . Based on collaboration call handle that references collaboration call collaboration agent may determine collaboration agent as the destination for receiving document .

In action collaboration agent may compose and send a document transmission command . In one embodiment document transmission command may include document . Collaboration agent may send document transmission command to collaboration agent .

In action collaboration agent may receive and process document transmission command . Collaboration agent may extract document from document transmission command . Collaboration agent may select terminal for receiving document based on terminal capabilities list .

In action collaboration agent may compose and send a document transmission command . In one embodiment document transmission command may include document . Collaboration agent may send document transmission command to terminal .

Although the document transmission commands and are addressed individually for purposes of describing the details of process document transmission commands and may be conceptualized as first second and third parts of one document transmission command sent from terminal to terminal passing through collaboration agents and . Depending on the implementation of the system and process document transmission commands and may be substantially identical or they may be modified at each collaboration agent . Moreover document transmission commands and and the single document transmission command concept are all variations of a broader concept the collaboration command which may be sent between terminals and to perform any of the collaboration functionalities such as share video share desktops text message etc.

In action terminal may receive and process document transmission command . Terminal may extract document from document transmission command . In one embodiment terminal may display document on a graphical display screen of terminal . Terminal may display document on another graphical display screen of terminal . Users and may discuss document over voice communication session .

The following scenario illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. A first person user may initiate action a phone call collaboration call on a first phone first voice terminal to a second person user having a second phone second voice terminal where the first and second phones are associated with a telecommunications collaboration system according to the present invention. The system recognizes that the phone call is between two system phones and treats the phone call according e.g. actions . For example the phones may be office desk phones within a company network collaboration network .

The second phone rings e.g. action to notify the second user of the call . When the second user answers the phone call using the second phone e.g. action the system connects the call to the first phone and potentially notifies the first phone the second phone the first user s logged on desktop computer first data terminal sitting next to the first phone and the second user s logged on desktop computer second data terminal sitting next to the second phone of the collaboration call handle e.g. action .

In processing the call handle action the each of the two computers may cause a pop up window to appear on the user s display advising the user of any collaboration functionalities associated with the collaboration call . This pop up window may function similarly to an IM pop up and or a remote assistance pop up as examples. For instance either user may share the other s desktop send documents to the other user or text message the other user.

In the above described process the first user desires to send the second user a document . To do this the first user may select for example a share document button in the collaboration pop up and identify the document to be shared action . The system then may share the document actions so that the second user s computer displays the document action for the second user to view and possibly edit and or save depending on how the document was shared.

Whenever desired either user may terminate the voice communication session by hanging up the phone and or terminate the data communication by closing out the collaboration pop up window. As long as either the voice communication session or the data communication session is active the collaboration call remains active and either user may be able to reactivate the previously terminated session.

Analogous to having the data communication session active and having terminated the voice communication session is the situation where the first user initiates the data communication session first by sending a collaboration invitation first to the second user s computer . Until this point the data communication initiated data communication based collaboration call resembles an Instant Message. However because the two computers and are associated with system the collaboration pop up may allow the users to virtually dial the phones associated with the system to initiate a voice session .

Unlike IM based voice communication the voice session would be a phone to phone call independent of the data communication session. For example the system may establish the voice session using modified call back technology also known as direct inbound dialing initiated however via data session instead of through a phone call similar in par to Web callback technology. Unlike Web callback technology though the system would ring user first and then user second without user needing to dial the phone number of user . Such an arrangement resembles a combination of Web callback and operator assisted dialing.

Although a properly configured version of MS Outlook allows a user to dial a person s phone number if the person and the phone number are stored as a Contact in the Contact folder this Outlook based initiation of a voice session is not associated with a pre existing data communication session . Moreover even though this Outlook based initiation of a voice session is data communication initiated voice call it is not a data communication initiated data communication based collaboration call according to the present invention. Rather the Outlook based dialing uses the computer modem to initiate a VoIP call including a VoIP to PSTN call which means that the computer acts as both the voice terminal and the data terminal in one which is outside the scope of the present invention. This Outlook based dialing scenario requires the user to sign into .Net Messenger Service because the phone call is made from MS Windows Messenger.

In one embodiment terminal may establish voice communication session using Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In some embodiments voice communication session may include a Real time Transport Protocol RTP session. In another embodiment terminal may establish voice communication session using H.323 protocol.

In one embodiment terminal may send and receive document using File Transfer Protocol FTP . For example terminal may use FTP protocol to send document to collaboration agent . In a similar fashion collaboration agent may use FTP protocol to send document to the recipient terminal . In one embodiment terminal or may send or receive documents using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

In one embodiment terminal may use other means to send documents. In one example document may reside in collaboration network and terminal may include the identity and location of document in document transmission command . In one embodiment collaboration agent as the receiving agent may retrieve the identified document from collaboration network and send document to terminal the intended recipient.

In one embodiment collaboration platform may include additional collaboration functionalities such as video communication text chat white boarding or co editing of a document. In one embodiment a terminal may include capabilities to support one or more additional collaboration functionalities. In one example a terminal may include a video camera to support video communication functionality.

In one embodiment a collaboration call may involve three or more collaboration platforms in a multiparty conference setting.

In one embodiment collaboration may be used during a commercial transaction such as an auction a gaming transaction such as a card game or a betting game a ticket order a price quote or a product purchase. In another embodiment collaboration may be used for product or service customer support a product information inquiry a service call and or service appointment scheduling.

