---

title: Login screen with identifying data
abstract: Techniques are described which may be employed to provide a login screen with identifying data. In an implementation, a login screen is displayed having an image that identifies a user. Credentials are received via the login screen to log the user onto a service provider over a network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07676833&OS=07676833&RS=07676833
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07676833
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
Initially users were limited to functionality that was available locally on their respective computers such as through execution of applications and games on processors of the computer accessing local storage of data from a memory of the computer and so on. With the advent of the Internet however users gained access to a wide variety of functionality from all over the world such as to web pages downloadable songs ecommerce electronic bill payers and other web services.

In some instances however access to all or parts of the functionality is limited to particular users. Therefore credentials may be supplied by the users e.g. user name and password to authenticate the user i.e. to determine the identity of the user and whether the user is permitted to access the functionality.

Traditional techniques that were used by users to login to the web services however were impersonal and therefore distanced the user from the experience. For example once the user was logged on to a web service the user may obtain data that is personal to the user to personalize the user s experience with the web service. Before that logon however information output to the user using traditional techniques did not differentiate that user from any other user that attempted to access the web service.

Techniques are described which may be employed to provide a login screen with identifying data. In an implementation a login screen is displayed that has data that identifies a user. Credentials are then received via the login screen to log the user onto a service provider over a network.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The same reference numbers are utilized in instances in the discussion to reference like structures and components.

Traditional techniques that were used by a user to login to a web service are impersonal and therefore distance the user from the experience. For example once the user was logged on to a web service the user may obtain data that is personal and customizable by the user. Before that logon however information output to the user using traditional techniques did not differentiate that user from any other user that attempted to access the web service.

Techniques are described that provide data that identifies a user e.g. identity data such as user tiles personal status messages and so on to be output in a login screen before a user logs in to a service provider e.g. a web service provider. For example the login screen may be configured to include a user tile and user name that when selected enable the user to enter credentials that are communicated over a network to the service provide to authenticate the user. Thus the user may be provided with personalized experience before the service provider verifies the user or even knows that the user is about to attempt and or is attempting to login to the service provider.

Additionally this data may be roamed between clients e.g. computing devices that are used by the user to access the service provide. For example a user may employ a desktop computer and a laptop computer that both use the identity data obtained from a common location over a network. Further changes made to the identity data may be promulgated between the clients e.g. the desktop computer and the laptop computer such that once a change is made using one of the clients the changed identifying data may be automatically obtained by the other clients.

In the following discussion an exemplary environment is first described that is operable to perform techniques to provide a login screen with identifying data. Exemplary procedures and user interfaces are then described that may be employed in the exemplary environment as well as in other environments.

The clients may be configured in a variety of ways for network access. For example one or more of the clients may be configured as a computing device such as a desktop computer a mobile station an entertainment appliance a set top box communicatively coupled to a display device a wireless phone a game console and so forth. Thus the clients may range from full resource devices with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. personal computers game consoles to low resource devices with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. traditional set top boxes hand held game consoles . The clients in portions of the following discussion may also relate to a person and or entity that operate the clients. In other words one or more of the clients may describe logical clients that include users software and or devices.

The service provider is illustrated in as being implemented by a server and the client is illustrated as a client device each of which having respective processors and memory . Processors are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions. Alternatively the mechanisms of or for processors and thus of or for a computing device may include but are not limited to quantum computing optical computing mechanical computing e.g. using nanotechnology and so forth. Additionally although a single memory is shown respectively for the service provider and the client a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed such as random access memory RAM hard disk memory removable medium memory and other types of computer readable media.

Although the network is illustrated as the Internet the network may assume a wide variety of configurations. For example the network may include a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a public telephone network an intranet and so on. Further although a single network is shown the network may be configured to include multiple networks.

The client is illustrated as executing a communication module on the processor which is also storable in memory . The communication module is representative of an executable module that is configured to communicate with the service provider over the network . For example the communication module may be configured as a web browser that allows the client to surf the Internet. In another example the communication module is configured as a smart client module that is configured to provide other network functionality as a part of its operation such as an instant messaging module an email module an online banking module and so on. A wide variety of other examples are also contemplated.

The client for instance may execute the communication module to access a web service suite that includes a collection of web services that offer functionality to the client . For example the web services may include email instant messaging client maintenance services web logs spaces photo storage and so on.

The client through execution of the communication module may communicate with the service provider over the network. To obtain access to the services provided by the service provider e.g. the web service suite the client may provide credentials such as user name and password. The service provider through execution of the manager module compares the received credentials with credentials where a can be any integer from one to A stored in storage in the memory to determine whether a user of the client is who they say they are . When authenticated the client is then given access to the web service suite .

To provide a personalized experience before login to the service provider the communication module may include an identity module . The identity module is representative of functionality that provides identity data during a login process to the service provider even before the client successfully logs in to the service provider . For example a user tile may be selected by the user as an external representation of the user to other users such as during an instant messaging session. This user tile may also be output as a part of a login screen that is used to log the user into the service provider . Additionally the user tile may be selectable to automatically provide all or a portion of the credentials used to log the user into the service provider such as by providing the user name and or password when the user clicks on the user tile using a cursor control device.

Further the service provider may also be configured to maintain identity data where i can be any integer from one to I in storage such that the identity data may roam over the network . The user for example may use a plurality of clients such as a desktop PC a laptop computer and a wireless phone. The identity data particular to the user may be shared by each of the clients such that the personalized login experience may be provided regardless of the client being used by the user. Additionally changes to the identity data made using one of the clients e.g. the desktop computer may be promulgated to other client devices such as the laptop computer and wireless phone. Further this promulgation may be performed automatically through execution of the identity module and or manager module such that manual updating by the user is not necessary. Further discussion of identity data used in conjunction with a login over a network may be found in relation to the following figures.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module functionality and logic as used herein generally represent software firmware or a combination of software and firmware. In the case of a software implementation the module functionality or logic represents program code that performs specified tasks when executed on a processor e.g. CPU or CPUs . The program code can be stored in one or more computer readable memory devices e.g. memory . The features of the techniques to provide identifying data before login described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

The client is illustrated as including the communication module and well as a common credential store and an identity data store . The common credential store and the identity data store are accessible to the communication module via an application programming interface API . The API for instance may be configured as a client runtime library that is responsible for updating to and reading from the common credential store on behalf of the communication module .

The common credential store is a common store in that it may be used by the client to store credentials used by a plurality of web sites and applications obtained from multiple users of the client . For example the common credential store may store credentials of each member of a household that opted to save their account on the client each employee of a business students in a classroom and so on.

The identity data store may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the identity data store may include copies of identity data of users of the client . In other words in this example the identity data is available locally on the client instead of over the network . In another example the identity data store may include one or more uniform resource locators URLs that reference where the identity data may be obtained for particular users over the network . The URL for instance may be a network address of identity data stored by the identity service over the network . Therefore the communication module when executed may examine the identity data store to determine where over the network the identity data that corresponds to a particular user may be found and retrieve that identity data . A variety of other examples are also contemplated such as storage of identity data on both the client and the service provider .

The communication module of is illustrated as implementing and being implemented by an authentication cookie identity cookie login screen having identity data a helper module and a contact control module . The authentication cookie for instance may be received from the authentication service when the user has been successfully authenticated such as through comparison of credentials supplied by the client over the network with credentials e.g. name password stored at the authentication service . The authentication cookie may then be used by the client to access other service providers without resubmitting the credentials. The credentials are further illustrated as including a timestamp which may be used to indicate to the client as to whether the identity data of the client is current. Further discussion of managing identity data to remain current may be found in relation to .

The helper module is representative of functionality that provides interaction between the common credential store and the identity service . For example the helper module may be configured as an Active X control that is used by the communication module when configured as a browser to communicate identity data from the identity service to the common credential store and vice versa such as when the client updates the identity data.

The contract control module is representative of functionality that maintains the identity data used by the client such as to ensure that the data is current . For example the user may provide a new user tile which is stored in the identity data store . The new user tile may also be uploaded to the identity data of the identity service such that the new user tile may be provided to other clients used by the user. Additionally as described above the timestamp may be provided when the new user tile is uploaded such that each client may determine whether the identity data is current and if not obtain the current identity data.

The login screen is illustrated as including identity data of one or more users. For example the login screen may be configured to accept credentials to be communicated to the authentication service . Before the credentials are accepted the login screen may output identity data . For instance the identity cookie may be queried to determine a URL of identity data such as a client tile available via URL at the identity service . The user tile is then obtained and output in the login screen as identity data . In another example the identity data may be obtained from the identity data store and output in the login screen . A variety of other examples are also contemplated further discussion of which may be found in relation to the following procedures.

The following discussion describes login screen with identifying data techniques that may be implemented utilizing the previously described systems and devices. Aspects of each of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to the environment of and the system of .

Interaction with a client is initiated block . For example a user may power on the client of and select an indication in a user interface to login to the service provider such as by double clicking an icon.

A determination is then made as to whether identity data is available decision block . For example the communication module may determine whether there is an identity cookie available and if so retrieve identity data via a URL such as retrieving the user tile from over the network . In another example the communication module may determine whether identity data is available locally via the identity data store .

When identity data is not available no from decision block a login screen is output having generic data that does not relate to an identity of a user block . for instance illustrates an exemplary implementation of a user interface configured to provide credentials over a network that does not include identity data. The user interface includes portions to enter a username and password . Further the user may select options to remember me on this computer and remember password . The remember me on this computer option when selected may provide for identity data of the user to be stored on the computer before login.

When identity data is available yes from decision block a login screen is output having data that is customizable by a user to identify the user block . The user for instance may have previously logged in to the service provider using the client and selected the remember me on this computer option of the user interface of . Therefore data is available to this computer e.g. which may implement the client of for output in conjunction with a login screen.

The identity data e.g. the images and the network addresses may be configured aid the user to log in to the service provider . For instance the identity data may be selectable to provide all or part of the credentials used to log the user in to the service provider . A user for example may use a cursor control device to select the image to cause credentials related to that user to be automatically filled in for communication over the network to the service provider to authenticate the user. In another example selection of the image provides at least a part of the credentials but leaves another part to be manually entered by the user an example of which is shown in the following figure.

Returning now to the discussion of an input is received via the login screen to log the user onto a service provider over a network block . The login screen of for instance may receive a password of the user. The user is then authenticated through use of the input block . For example the input may be communicated by the communication module to the authentication service for comparison with credentials maintained by the service. When authenticated e.g. the supplied credentials match the stored credentials the authentication service may communicate an authentication cookie which enables the client to access other service providers without resubmitting the credentials e.g. access to the web service suite .

The web service suite for instance may form a communication that includes content configured for concurrent display with the data that is customizable by the user to identify the user block . For instance the user may access an instant messaging service included in the web service suite which also uses the data e.g. a user tile to represent the user in an instant messaging user interface both to the user as well as other users during an instant messaging session. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.

The customized data is then communicated over the network to the service provider block . For instance the user may interact with the communication module to change a user tile. The user tile may then be stored by the communication module through the API in the identity data store that is local to the client . Further the communication module may also communicate the user tile over the network .

The customized identity data e.g. the user tile is then stored at the identity service as user tile block . To provide access to the customized identity data a unique URL is generated for the stored data block . For example the identity manager module when executed may generate a URL having a combination of nonsensical characters that are difficult for a user to guess e.g. www.serviceprovider.com identitydata 0515 . Therefore access to the identity data may be provided to any user that has the URL but the URL is difficult to guess by other users. Additionally by providing such access to the identity data over the network the identity data may roam to other clients used by the user.

The user for example may interact with another client block and use that client to login to the service provider . Accordingly the service provider receives a communication that includes credentials input by a user via a login screen block such as a user name and password. A determination is then made as to whether the identity data of the other client is current block . For instance the communication may include a timestamp that indicates a most recent version of identity data stored at the client. In another example the timestamp may be communicated to the client to perform the determination. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.

When the customizable data is not current a response is formed to be communicated to the client having the URL of the current customizable data block . For example the response may be sent after authentication when it is determined by the service provider that the identity data stored at the client is not up to date . In another example the response may be sent after receipt of a request by the client for the URL after determination by the client that the identity data stored in the identity data store is not current. A variety of other examples are also contemplated.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed invention.

