---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions
abstract: Systems and methods for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions are provided. A representative method includes: receiving information corresponding to the communication session; storing the information in long term storage; extracting a first portion of the information from the long term storage; populating a database with the first portion of the information such that the portion of the information is stored in the database in addition to being stored in the long term storage; determining that additional information corresponding to the communication session is required for use; and extracting an additional portion of the information from the long term storage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07920482&OS=07920482&RS=07920482
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07920482
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
Contact centers are staffed by agents with whom customers interact during communication sessions. Such communication sessions can be facilitated in various manners such as by conventional telephones voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phones email and or web based chat.

Typically a contact center uses monitoring software to track contact center activity. In this regard monitoring software communicates with various applications that facilitate contact center activity. By way of example these applications can include those associated with a private branch exchange PBX an email router and or a customer relations management CRM application. These applications provide data corresponding to their respective operations to the monitoring application.

Monitoring applications use this data to build a model of call center activity. Such a model can then be analyzed for various purposes such as determining whether service goals of the contact center are being achieved. Since such models are not standardized and since data provided to such models tend to be provided in disparate formats the data received typically is converted into a format that can be used by the model. However converting the data inevitably results in some of the data being lost because the model only stores the data that is required by the model to perform its designated functions.

In this regard systems and methods for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a system comprises a recording system and a data conversion system. The recording system is configured to communicate with a communication network. The recording system has a long term storage device and is operative to record an audio component corresponding to the communication session such that the audio component is stored in the long term storage device. The data conversion system is configured to communicate with the recording system and is operative to receive information corresponding to the communication session map at least a portion of the information to corresponding data fields of a database and provide at least a portion of the information in the database to the recording system. A record of the communication session is stored in the long term storage device and is annotated with the portion of the information from the database.

An embodiment of a method comprises receiving information corresponding to the communication session at least some of the information being provided by one of the network switches recording all of the information provided by the communication network pertaining to the communication session such that the information is stored in long term storage and mapping at least some of the information recorded to corresponding data fields in a database such that the at least some of the information is stored in the database in addition to being stored in the long term storage.

Another embodiment of a method comprises receiving information corresponding to the communication session storing the information in long term storage extracting a first portion of the information from the long term storage populating a database with the first portion of the information such that the portion of the information is stored in the database in addition to being stored in the long term storage determining that additional information corresponding to the communication session is required for use and extracting an additional portion of the information from the long term storage.

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be described in greater detail here several exemplary embodiments of systems and methods for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions will be described. In this regard an embodiment of such a system can alleviate some of the perceived shortcomings of conventional monitoring systems in which data oftentimes is lost as the data is converted to conform to a corresponding model of contact center activity. In this regard in some embodiments all of the information received by the monitoring system is recorded whether or not the current model of contact center activity will use all of the information. By recording all of the information received updates to the contact center model can exploit this information by accessing the recorded information and then re evaluating that information based on the updated model. This is in contrast to conventional systems in which information that was not converted for use by the previous version of the contact center model is not stored for later use and thus can not be re evaluated.

Another potential advantage relates to troubleshooting of system implementations. In this regard numerous applications typically are involved in implementing a contact center. As should be understood these applications interface with various other applications and or components resulting in a rather complex integration. In such an environment troubleshooting typically involves acquiring the relevant applications interfaces and or components in order to evaluate any operational discrepancies. However in contrast to this conventional methodology since data pertaining to those applications interfaces and or components is recorded in some embodiments and not discarded for failing to be required by the contact center model this data can be used for performing troubleshooting. Thus the applications interfaces and or components need not be acquired for performing the troubleshooting. In this regard the recorded data can serve as a testing algorithm to simulate the actual inputs that led to the perceived operational discrepancy.

Referring now in more detail to the drawings is an exemplary embodiment of a system for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions. As shown in the system incorporates a recording system and a data conversion system each of which communicates with a communications network . As a non limiting example communications network can include a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet and or a Local Area Network LAN . Notably in this embodiment the recording system and data conversion system are associated with a contact center.

In this regard a contact center can optionally include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

In the embodiment of system also incorporates those applications interfaces and or components associated with facilitating a communication session between a caller party e.g. a customer and a called party e.g. an agent of the contact center. In operation one or more of the various applications interfaces and or components provide information to the recording system so that audio corresponding to the communication session is recorded to long term storage.

The data conversion system also receives information from one or more of the various applications interfaces and or components that the data conversion system converts for use such as in a model of contact center activities. By way of example the model can incorporate a database that is structured to store selected data that can be used for various purposes such as call recording e.g. control and or tagging agent tracking e.g. on break ready to accept call agent evaluation call search and reporting.

Notably in this embodiment all information provided to the data conversion system that pertains to the communication session is recorded to long term storage with at least some of that information also being used to populate the model. Thus in contrast to conventional monitoring systems this embodiment retains information that is not used by the model so that the information can be used at another time.

In block information corresponding to the audio component of the call is recorded such as by a recording system that records the audio component to long term storage. In block other information event information associated with the call is stored in long term storage. For instance at least some of this event information can be used in a model that associates the event information with activities of a call center. In this regard the event information e.g. all information received except for the audio component can be stored in a database. By way of example a portion of the event information can be used to annotate the recorded audio component to create an annotated call record. Specifically the call record includes annotations of events corresponding to the call that are identified by the model. Thereafter such as depicted in block a determination is made that additional information is required such as for annotating the call record and or for analysis purposes. Responsive to such a determination the event information in long term storage is re evaluated and such as depicted in block the additional information is accessed from the long term storage. Notably the long term storage used to store the recorded audio component can be the same as or different from the long term storage used to store the event information.

Another embodiment of a system for monitoring information corresponding to communication sessions is depicted in . As shown in system is deployed in a contact center and incorporates a recording system that records information associated with a communication session e.g. a communication session occurring between an agent and a customer . By way of example the recording system can record an audio component of the communication session. Communications network facilitates the communication session. Notably the recording system includes a long term storage device that stores the information.

System incorporates a contact center state tracking system that monitors the various applications interfaces and components of the contact center for contact center activity. In this regard contact center activity is identified by a sequence of events which typically are communication component specific events e.g. switch events. By way of example each network switch involved in facilitating a communication session provides information corresponding to its state to the state tracking system during a communication session. Thus when the communication session is facilitated using IP packets each network switch associated with routing of the IP packets can provide such information. For instance a switch can provide information corresponding to several states such as alerting disconnect establish and conference.

Information also is provided to the state tracking system by various other applications interfaces and components. By way of example third party data can be provided from a private branch exchange PBX an email server and or a CRM server . The information provided to the state tracking system can be optionally stored by a long term storage device . In some embodiments the long term storage device records all of the information received by the state tracking system. In some embodiments the information can be stored by the long term storage or other such component.

A data conversion system receives information corresponding to communication sessions such as from the state tracking system. The data conversion system structures at least some of the information to correlate with activities embodied in a contact center model. In this regard the contact center model includes a database that contains various data fields for storing selected information pertaining to contact center activities. Notably the conversion system populates the data fields of the database with information received pertaining to communication sessions. Based on an interpretation of this information the data conversion system determines the activities that are occurring in the contact center. Notably information that may not be presently interpreted as being associated with a contact center activity can be stored. That is in some embodiments this information also can be stored in the database.

Responsive to receiving information corresponding to a state and correlating that state with an event the data conversion system provides information corresponding to the event to the recording system so that information corresponding to the event can be recorded. In some embodiments the event is provided as tag or an annotation to a call record that is stored in the long term storage of the recording system.

In order to facilitate the populating of the aforementioned data fields a mapping procedure can be undertaken either manually semi automatically or automatically. The mapping procedure correlates discrete portions of the information received to one or more data fields of the database. An exemplary embodiment of a mapping procedure will be described later with reference to .

The embodiment of additionally incorporates a search system that is used to access information stored in the long term storage and or in the database. In this regard various search engines and or techniques can be used to enable locating of information for various purposes such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can potentially improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionalities improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities. Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they will have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

An exemplary mapping procedure will now be described with respect to . As mentioned before such a mapping procedure can be performed in association with a data conversion system so that received information can be correlated with the appropriately designated data fields of a database. In this regard the left side of the diagram depicts information associated with an event TEvent that is received by an embodiment of a data conversion system. Specifically TEvent indicates an alerting event with this information being provided by a telephony server. Notably a telephony server is a server that functions as a network switch interface.

This information includes various segments of data. In particular the following are provided OtherParty data corresponding to the party making the call e.g. a customer ThirdParty data corresponding to an IVR system or other queue for example ThisParty data corresponding to the party whose phone is ringing e.g. an agent of the contact center eventType data corresponding to alerting Queue data corresponding to the queue in which the caller was placed private data corresponding to user specific data of the caller e.g. customer number and extensions data corresponding to switch specific data corresponding to the call. Notably the private data includes other subsets of data. In this case two key value pairs. It should also be noted that other data in addition to or instead of the data depicted in can be provided.

The right side of depicts selected data fields of a database that is used to model contact center activity. In particular the following data fields are included eventType which corresponds to the type of event that has been identified caller which corresponds to an identity of a caller of a communication session called which corresponds to an identity of the called party of the communication session ANI which corresponds to the phone and billing number of the caller and Queue which corresponds to the queue of the call center to which the communication session is associated.

In operation information corresponding to a TEvent is mapped to the corresponding data fields of the database as indicated by the arrows. Notably in contrast to conventional models that would lose the unmapped data in this case the private and extension data an embodiment such as described herein stores this information for late use. Specifically the information is stored in long term storage and can be accessed for various uses such as those depicted in .

In this regard depicts the functionality or method associated with another embodiment. As shown in the functionality may be construed as beginning at block in which information corresponding to a communication session is received with at least some of the information being provided by at least one network switch of a communication network. In block all of the information received is stored in long term storage. Notably this can include recording the audio component of the communication session. In block at least some of the information is mapped to corresponding data fields of a database. Thus at least some of the information is stored in the database in addition to being stored in long term storage.

Thereafter such as depicted in block a determination is made as to whether searching is to be facilitated. By way of example searching can be conducted in order to perform agent evaluation. If searching is to be facilitated the process proceeds to block in which search functionality which involves providing access to information in the long term storage and in the database is provided. If however searching functionality is not to be enabled the process proceeds to block .

In block a determination is made as to whether troubleshooting is to be facilitated. By way of example troubleshooting can be conducted in order to determine a reason that a call was not recorded which can be indicative of a state tracking system problem. If troubleshooting is to be facilitated the process proceeds to block in which troubleshooting which involves the use of information stored in the long term storage as a simulation tool is facilitated.

Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components. The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor. Additionally the memory includes an operating system as well as instructions associated with a recording system a data conversion system a state tracking system and a search system . Exemplary embodiments of each of which are described above.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of a possible implementation of one or more embodiments that can be implemented in software and or hardware. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical functions. It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order in which depicted. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the functions such as depicted in the flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

