---

title: 2D graph displaying document locations of user-specified concept of interest
abstract: According to one embodiment of the present invention, methods and systems for displaying an interest profile for an electronically stored document are provided. Interest profiles provide features that can enhance the experience of reading or using the electronic document. In exemplary embodiments, methods and systems include one or more interest profile techniques, such as graphical presentations and the like, for browsing or searching documents are provided. The graphical presentation can provide information about content of a document. The invention can be embodied in computer systems that include user input devices, processors, displays, storage and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185813&OS=08185813&RS=08185813
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08185813
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061220
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 348 652 filed Jul. 6 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 492 issued Jun. 5 2007 and incorporates by reference the following commonly owned co pending U.S. Patent Application in its entirety for all purposes 

The present invention relates to electronic documents and more particularly to method and system for providing interest profiles for electronic documents with features to enhance the experience of reading or using the electronic document.

Increasingly readers of documents are being called upon to assimilate vast quantities of information in a short period of time. To meet the demands placed upon them readers find they must read documents horizontally rather than vertically i.e. they must scan skim and browse sections of interest in multiple documents rather than read and analyze a single document from beginning to end.

Documents are becoming more widely available in electronic form. Some documents are available electronically by virtue of their having been created using word processing software. Other electronic documents are accessible via the Internet. Yet others may become available in electronic form by virtue of being scanned in copied or faxed. Commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 08 754 721 entitled AUTOMATIC AND TRANSPARENT DOCUMENT ARCHIVING the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes details a system for generating electronic as well as hardcopy format of documents.

However the mere availability of documents in electronic form does not assist the reader in confronting the challenges of assimilating information quickly.

Certain tools take advantage of the electronic form documents to assist harried readers. Tools exist to search for documents both on the Internet and locally. Once a document is identified and retrieved automatic summarization techniques such as the Reader s Helper described in a commonly owned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes helps the reader to find as well as assimilate the information he or she wants more quickly.

What is needed is a document interest profiling method that helps the reader find the information he or she wants more quickly. The document interest profiling method should be easily personalized flexible and adaptive as well.

According to one embodiment of the present invention methods and systems for displaying an interest profile for an electronically stored document are provided. Interest profiles provide features that can enhance the experience of reading or using the electronic document. In exemplary embodiments methods and systems include one or more interest profile techniques such as graphical presentations and the like for browsing or searching documents are provided. The graphical presentation can provide information about content of a document. The invention can be embodied in computer systems that include user input devices processors displays storage and the like.

In an exemplary embodiment a method for providing an interest profile includes a variety of steps. A step of accepting from a user input indicating the user s specified concepts of interest can be part of the method. The method can also include analyzing an electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of the user specified concept of interest. Techniques for determining locations of concepts of interest can be used with the method such as keyword counting Bayesian analysis techniques described in a commonly owned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM and the like in various embodiments of the present invention. The method also displays an indication of presence of discussion about the concepts of interest within the electronically stored document. The indication can provide to a reader approximate positions of portions of the document relevant to the concept of interest.

In some embodiments the indication can be a graphical representation of the presence of one or more concepts of interest to the reader. The graph can also indicate a persistence of the concept at various locations within the document by showing a relative amount of discussion of the concepts at various locations within the document. Embodiments can provide graphical presentations including contours bar charts scatter plots and the like.

In another aspect according to the present invention a method for providing an interest profile for an electronically stored document comprises a number of steps such as accepting user input indicating user specified concepts of interest and analyzing the electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of the user specified concepts of interest. The method can include displaying one or more selectable concept indicators corresponding to particular concepts of interest and accepting user input selecting at least one of these concept indicators. The method can also include displaying an indication of presence of discussion about one or more of the concepts of interest within the electronically stored document. The indication of presence can comprise a contour graph image corresponding to the electronically stored document that indicates a relative presence of discussions of at least one of the concepts of interest based upon the selections made by the user.

Some embodiments can also include displaying a second indication of presence of the concepts of interest comprising an elongated thumbnail image of all or a portion of electronically stored document in another viewing area of the display. The thumbnail image can have one or more indications of locations of discussion of concepts of interest based upon the concept or concepts selected by the user. Further some embodiments will display the second indication juxtaposed to the first indication enabling the user to visually compare the two indications.

In another aspect according to the present invention a computer program product for providing an interest profile for an electronically stored document comprises a computer readable storage medium containing code for performing a variety of tasks. The product can comprise code for accepting user input indicating user specified concepts of interest and code for analyzing the electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of user specified concepts of interest. The program product can also include code for displaying an indication of presence of discussion about concepts of interest within the electronically stored document. The indication can provide a reader an approximate position of discussion within the electronically stored document.

In another aspect according to the present invention a system for providing an interest profile for an electronically stored document can include a memory a display and a processor interconnected to the memory and the display by a bus. The processor can perform tasks such as accepting user input indicating user specified concepts of interest and analyzing the electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of the user specified concept of interest. The processor can also display an indication of presence of discussion about the concepts of interest within the electronically stored document on the display. The indication can provide a reader an approximate position of the discussion within the electronically stored document.

Numerous benefits are achieved by way of the present invention over conventional techniques. The present invention can provide an interest profile of a document for the reader. In many embodiments the interest profile can be easily personalized to the user. Some embodiments are easier to use than conventional browser user interfaces. Embodiments according to the invention can provide more information to the reader of a document than known techniques. Many embodiments according to the invention will enhance the user s reading or web browsing experience by providing indication of which portions of documents are likely to be of most interest to the reader. These and other benefits are described throughout the present specification.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the inventions herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

The present invention provides interest profiles for electronic documents to enhance the experience of reading or using the document. In exemplary embodiments methods and systems including a graphical presentation of an interest profile assist the user in browsing or searching documents. The graphical presentation can provide information about content of a document for example. The invention can be embodied in computer systems that include user input devices processors displays storage and the like.

Annotation contour can show the concentration or persistence of annotations throughout an entire document or in portions of the document. Annotation contours can assist users viewing long documents. While annotation contour comprises a line graph format those of ordinary skill in the art can readily appreciate that other presentation formats such as bar charts scatter plots and the like can also be used without departing from the scope of the present invention. Annotation contour comprises a page pointer that can be dragged to a location on a graphical representation of the document contents by the user using a pointing device such as a mouse for example. Responsive to the user s positioning the page pointer to a position in the graphical document representation the display screen will reposition to display a corresponding location within the document. In this manner the user can evaluate where the concentration of a concept of interest is within the document and move to this position within the document by sliding the page pointer to a corresponding location on the graphical representation of the document. In a presently preferable embodiment the distance between the vertical lines of page pointer is approximately 1 page length. However other lengths can be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In an alternative embodiment a single contour can be used to indicate presence or persistence of multiple concepts of interest. In such an embodiment the contour can display a result of a manipulation of constituent presence or persistence measurements. For example information about the presence or persistence of two concepts of interest can be added and a contour can be displayed showing the result of the addition. Other manipulations such as subtraction of one interest profile from another scaling by a scalar or functional factor and the like are embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

In a preferred embodiment computer system includes a Pentium class based computer running Windows NT operating system by Microsoft Corporation. However the method is easily adapted to other operating systems and architectures without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Mouse may have one or more buttons such as buttons . Cabinet houses familiar computer components such as disk drives a processor storage means etc. As used in this specification storage means includes any storage device used in connection with a computer system such as disk drives magnetic tape solid state memory bubble memory etc. Cabinet may include additional hardware such as input output I O interface cards for connecting computer system to external devices such as a scanner external storage other computers or additional peripherals.

Some embodiments can include a series of concept indicators that permit the user to identify which concepts of interest are to be noted in the document. A sensitivity control permits the user to select the degree of sensitivity to apply in identifying potential locations of relevant discussion. At low sensitivity more locations will be denoted as being relevant even though some may not be of any actual interest. At high sensitivity most all denoted locations will in fact be relevant but some other relevant locations may be missed. Many embodiments provide a percentage giving the relevance of the currently viewed document to the concept for each concept name appearing by one of selectable concept indicators . These relevance levels offer a quick assessment of the relevance of the document to the selected concepts.

In many embodiments an elongated thumbnail image representing the contents of the document is provided in a second viewing area . Thumbnail image depicts a representation of the contents of the document the current location of the reader i.e. the location of the text displayed in section using a sliding window as well as annotations corresponding to locations of discussion of concepts of interest to the reader such as annotation that corresponds to annotation in the document displayed in viewing area . An annotation contour can be displayed along with elongated thumbnail image . Annotation contour can provide an indication of the presence of one or more concepts of interest to the reader within the document. A second sliding window provides a counter part to sliding window . Counterpart sliding window can be positioned along the annotation contour to enable the user to find discussions of the topics of interest within the document.

In some embodiments one or more navigation tools can be found on a navigation toolbar . Miscellaneous annotation tools can be found on an annotation toolbar . The annotation tools on annotation toolbar facilitate navigation through a collection of documents. Annotations may be added to the document text to denote relevance to user selected concepts of interest.

Some embodiments will also include a document thumbnail image to provide summary information and the like.

Annotation contour provides an activity indication of the locations of the annotations such as annotation within the document. The graph of annotation contour indicates a relative number of annotations throughout the document. Other types of indicators such as bar graphs scatter plots and the like can also be used to provide information about the location and number of annotations within the document in other embodiments according to the present invention. Page pointer indicates the relative position of the currently displayed page of viewing area within the document. The user can move page pointer along annotation contour in order to position the document in the first viewing area to a portion of the document having a high concentration of instances of annotations.

In conclusion the present invention provides for a method of providing an interest profile for documents. In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to a specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Many changes or modifications are readily envisioned. For example changing the size or arrangement of the document interest profile image in the display changing the appearance and features of document interest profile image by using different graphing methods and other types of depictions adding audio effects adding audio memos describing the contents of the document among other changes are included within other embodiments of the present invention.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than in a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

