---

title: Methods and apparatus for a consolidated switch for use with networked RF components
abstract: A consolidated RF switch includes a cell controller configured to process data packets received from an access port communicatively coupled to a plurality of mobile units via a wireless network, and an RFID network controller configured to process tag information received from an RFID reader communicatively coupled to a plurality of RFID tags. The cell controller and the RFID network controller are configured to transmit the tag information and the data packets to one or more enterprise applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08036185&OS=08036185&RS=08036185
owner: Symbol Technologies, Inc.
number: 08036185
owner_city: Holtsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060428
---
The present invention relates generally to radio frequency identification RFID systems wireless local area networks WLANs and other RF components. More particularly the invention relates to the management of configuration of and services provided by such systems.

Radio frequency identification RFID systems have achieved wide popularity in a number of applications as they provide a cost effective way to track the location of a large number of assets in real time. In large scale application such as warehouses retail spaces and the like many RFID tags may exist in the environment. Likewise multiple RFID readers are typically distributed throughout the space in the form of entryway readers conveyer belt readers mobile readers etc.

At the same time there has been a dramatic increase in demand for mobile connectivity solutions utilizing various wireless components and wireless local area networks WLANs . This generally involves the use of wireless access points that communicate with mobile devices using one or more RF channels e.g. in accordance with one or more of the IEEE 802.11 standards .

The number of mobile units and associated access ports as well as the number of RFID readers and associated antennae can be very large in an enterprise. As the number of components increases the management and configuration of those components becomes complicated and time consuming. This problem is exacerbated by the presence of handheld wireless RFID readers and active RFID tags that communicate with access ports rather than standard RFID readers.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide an efficient method of managing configuring and handling data from both RFID and WLAN systems. Furthermore other desirable features and characteristics of the present invention will become apparent from the subsequent detailed description and the appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the foregoing technical field and background.

In accordance with the present invention a centralized networking switching device efficiently controls the routing of RFID tag information WLAN data and data from any other type of RF element and allows configuration and coordination of the various components of both systems. A consolidated RF switch in accordance with one embodiment for example includes a cell controller configured to process data packets received from an access port communicatively coupled to a plurality of mobile units via a wireless network and an RFID network controller configured to process tag information received from an RFID reader communicatively coupled to a plurality of RFID tags. The cell controller and the RFID network controller are configured to transmit the tag information and the data packets to one or more enterprise applications. The RF switch thereby provides a seamless view of RF elements in the networks as well as services such as locationing healing and intrusion detection in any RF domain.

The following detailed description is merely illustrative in nature and is not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore there is no intention to be bound by any express or implied theory presented in the preceding technical field background brief summary or the following detailed description.

The invention may be described herein in terms of functional and or logical block components and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such block components may be realized by any number of hardware software and or firmware components configured to perform the specified functions. For example an embodiment of the invention may employ various integrated circuit components e.g. radio frequency RF devices memory elements digital signal processing elements logic elements look up tables or the like which may carry out a variety of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced in conjunction with any number of data transmission protocols and that the system described herein is merely one exemplary application for the invention.

For the sake of brevity conventional techniques related to signal processing data transmission signaling network control the 802.11 family of specifications wireless networks RFID systems and specifications and other functional aspects of the system and the individual operating components of the system may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent example functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. Many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical embodiment.

Without loss of generality in the illustrated embodiment many of the functions usually provided by a traditional access point e.g. network management wireless configuration locationing of wireless devices active 802.11 tags etc. and or traditional RFID readers e.g. data collection RFID processing etc. are concentrated in a corresponding RF switch. It will be appreciated that the present invention is not so limited and that the methods and systems described herein may be used in conjunction with traditional access points and RFID readers or any other device that communicates via RF channels.

The present invention relates to a centralized networking switching device that efficiently controls the routing of RFID data as well as WLAN data e.g. 802.11 devices and allows configuration and coordination of the various components of both systems.

Referring to a switching device alternatively referred to as an RF switch or simply switch is coupled to a networks and e.g. an Ethernet network coupled to one or more other networks or devices which communicates with one or more enterprise applications . One or more wireless access ports alternatively referred to as access ports or APs are configured to wirelessly connect to one or more mobile units or MUs . APs suitably communicate with switch via appropriate communication lines e.g. conventional Ethernet lines or the like . Any number of additional and or intervening switches routers servers and other network components may also be present in the system.

A number of tags are distributed throughout the environment. These tags are read by a number of RFID readers or simply readers having one or more associated antennas provided within the environment. Tags may also be read by APs that read active tags or by an ultra wideband APS or the like. That is the term tag refers to any RF element that can be communicated with and which has an ID that can be read. Readers like APs may be stationary or mobile and are suitably connective via wired or wireless data links to a RF switch .

A particular AP may have a number of associated MUs . For example in the illustrated topology MUs and are associated with AP while MU is associated with AP . One or more APs may be coupled to a single switch as illustrated.

RF Switch determines the destination of packets it receives over network and and routes those packets to the appropriate AP if the destination is an MU with which the AP is associated. Each WS therefore maintains a routing list of MUs and their associated APs . These lists are generated using a suitable packet handling process as is known in the art. Thus each AP acts primarily as a conduit sending receiving RF transmissions via MUs and sending receiving packets via a network protocol with WS . AP is typically capable of communicating with one or more MUs through multiple RF channels. This distribution of channels varies greatly by device as well as country of operation. For example in one U.S. embodiment in accordance with 802.11 b there are fourteen overlapping staggered channels each centered 5 MHz apart in the RF band.

A particular RFID reader may have multiple associated antennas . For example as shown in reader is coupled to one antenna and reader is coupled to two antennas and . Reader may incorporate additional functionality such as filtering cyclic redundancy checks CRC and tag writing as is known in the art.

In general RFID tags sometimes referred to as transponders may be classified as either active or passive. Active tags are devices that incorporate some form of power source e.g. batteries capacitors or the like while passive tags are tags that are energized via an RF energy source received from a nearby antenna. While active tags are more powerful and exhibit a greater range than passive tags they also have a shorter lifetime and are significantly more expensive. Such tags are well known in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

Each antenna has an associated RF range or read point which depends upon among other things the strength of the respective antenna . The read point corresponds to the area around the antenna in which a tag may be read by that antenna and may be defined by a variety of shapes depending upon the nature of the antenna i.e. the RF range need not be circular or spherical as illustrated in .

It is not uncommon for the RF ranges or read points to overlap in real world applications e.g. doorways small rooms etc. . Thus as shown in read point overlaps with read point which itself overlaps with read point . Accordingly it is possible for a tag to exist within the range of two or more readers simultaneously. For example tag falls within read points and and tag falls within read points and . Because of this two readers and may sense the presence of or other event associated with tag .

As described in further detail below switch includes hardware software and or firmware capable of carrying out the functions described herein. Thus switch may comprise one or more processors accompanied by storage units displays input output devices an operating system database management software networking software and the like. Such systems are well known in the art and need not be described in detail. Switch may be configured as a general purpose computer a network switch or any other such network host. In a preferred embodiment controller is modeled on a network switch architecture but includes RF network controller software or module whose capabilities include among other things the ability to allow configure and monitor readers and antennas .

RF switch allows multiple read points to be logically combined via controller within a single read point zone or simply zone . For example referring to a read point zone may be defined by the logical union of read points and . Note that the read points need not overlap in physical space and that disjoint read points e.g. read point may also be included in the read point zone if desired. In a preferred embodiment antennas i.e. read points defined by the antennas can be arbitrarily assigned to zones regardless of whether they are associated with the same reader. That is referring to antennas and while both associated with reader may be part of different zones. Controller then receives all tag data from readers via respective data links e.g. wired communication links 802.11 connections or the like then aggregates and filters this data based on zone information. The read point zones are suitably preconfigured by a user or administrator. That is the user is allowed to access controller and through a configuration mode specify a set of read points that are to be included in a particular zone.

Tag domain comprises tags tagged assets and objects that require tracking and or monitoring e.g. tags in . As mentioned previously these tags may be active passive or a combination thereof.

Reader domain includes inter alia physical antennas readers and APs . Objects in reader domain acquire information from objects in tag domain and pass associated data to reader controller domain .

Reader controller domain comprises RNC objects. RNC objects e.g. RNC in act as an integration point for RFID readers antennae and include the functionality of filtering and aggregating volumes of data provided by readers supporting the analysis of data and applying local decision making and intelligence. The RNC is preferably compatible with readers from multiple vendors and effectively hide individual reader and tag interface idiosyncrasies from RFID aware application domain .

RFID aware application domain includes one or more standalone applications and or middleware applications that function as intermediaries between enterprise applications and the RNC. In this regard the applications within this domain rely on events on a higher level i.e. events that are important in the context of a business operation or process.

Reader includes one or more reader agents an application programming interface API and some core functionality . Reader as mentioned above is responsible for reading RFID tags embodied within core functionality . For active tags read by an AP switch acts as an RFID reader and communicates the tag info to RNC . Reader agents includes the interfaces through which RNC communicates. This may include for example a proprietary interface an SLRRP interface other any other interface such as dynamically loadable modules for other protocols. In one embodiment RFID reader provides a C API for core RFID reader functionality and reader agents make use of this API.

Reader implements a suitable RNC discovery procedure. In one embodiment the reader first makes use of IP subnet broadcast. If no response is received reader refers to a list of statically configured RNCs which is preferably stored across reboots in the reader . If no response is received using this method then reader consults a discovered list of RNCE controllers also stored across reboots in the reader . This list includes a list of RNCs to which the reader had prior success in joining. If no response is received Reader uses a list of RNCs received in a DHCP offer using option known in the art .

RNC includes one or more RFID reader managers a data plane a control plane one or more RFID application agents and a RNC configuration database . In one embodiment RNC includes a set of processes shared libraries and the like running under Linux and a local operating system. RFID reader managers communicates with RFID reader using any suitable interface such as a proprietary interface SLRRP or the like. RFID application agents provide suitable interfaces such as ALE MQTT JMS SQL IBM Premises Server Interface or any other suitable interface. Applications includes an RFID aware business application core and an RFID application manager .

In summary what has been described is a centralized networking switching device that efficiently controls the routing of RFID data as well as WLAN data e.g. 802.11 devices and allows configuration and coordination of the various components of both systems. More broadly the present invention is not so limited and allows all manner of RF elements RFID tags 802.11 devices and any other component that wirelessly communicates via RF to be controlled and configured via a single network switch.

It should be appreciated that the example embodiment or embodiments described herein are not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the invention in any way. Rather the foregoing detailed description will provide those skilled in the art with a convenient road map for implementing the described embodiment or embodiments. It should be understood that various changes can be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims and the legal equivalents thereof.

