---

title: System and method for distributing content to portable computing devices
abstract: A method of operating a portable computing device comprises receiving broadcast information including a data repository and formatting information. Creation of a search query is facilitated, and a search result is retrieved from the data repository based upon the search query. The search result is transformed in accordance with the formatting information to produce formatted content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07680802&OS=07680802&RS=07680802
owner: Qwikker, Inc.
number: 07680802
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060804
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 070 552 entitled System And Method For Dynamically Generating Content On A Portable Computing Device filed on Mar. 1 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application entitled System And Method For Dynamically Generating Content On A Portable Computing Device U.S. application Ser. No. 09 841 970 Filed on Apr. 24 2001 the disclosure of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 070 552 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application claims priority to U.S. Utility patent application entitled System And Method For Dynamically Generating Content On A Portable Computing Device U.S. application Ser. No. 09 841 970 Filed on Apr. 24 2001 the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods configured to distribute information across networks to remote computing devices. Specifically embodiments of the invention provide a wireless information distributor a local data cache a protocol for broadcasting information to portable computing devices a procedure for providing wireless information distributors with new information methods for battery conservation on information distributors and systems and methods for increasing the wireless communication range of conventional portable computing devices without requiring physical device modifications.

The Internet and the World Wide Web have made great strides at bringing the world to the average home. Incredibly rich and detailed information about almost any part of the globe may reside merely a few keystrokes away from the typical computer user. But the typical computer user loses access to this rich pool of information once leaving home. Of course the computer user could regain access to rich sources of information by reconnecting his computer to an electronic network after leaving home but such connections are typically cumbersome and their availability is often limited.

Consider for example a computer user at a museum who wants information related to an exhibit at the museum. Typically she would have to locate a public telephone physically connect her computer to the telephone establish a network connection via a dialup modem and then begin her information retrieval search. Not only is this process cumbersome and inconvenient but as soon as the computer user disconnects from the network she will typically lose access to the information provided by the network. Of course the computer user could save some of the information in memory on her computer but she will nevertheless likely lose all interactive abilities to manipulate the information provided by the network once disconnected and she will definitely lose the ability to posit new queries after disconnection.

Consider another computer user visiting a baseball park for example. This computer user could conceivably bring with him a computer having an ability to connect to the Internet wirelessly through the public telephone network. Once connected the computer user could then locate information about the baseball park and or the relevant baseball teams and could theoretically continue reviewing the information provided over the electronic network throughout the entire game or even longer. Unfortunately this computer user will typically have to pay more for this service and its related equipment than for a connection over a typical dialup network. In addition the wireless connection between the computer user and the network may become broken for various reasons such as interference and once the connection is broken the computer user will lose all access to the information provided by the network. Worse still the computer user may have to contend for an available wireless connection especially since this computer user will not be competing with just other visitors to the baseball park but with everyone who wants to connect to the wireless network. In fact suppose the computer user is attending a popular baseball game and many other spectators also have established wireless connections. The computer user will not only have to contend for bandwidth in establishing a connection to the wireless network but the computer user may also have to contend for access to particular information resources e.g. the home team s website. Such website may have limited abilities for correctly processing requests during an access request surge e.g. thousands of spectators at a major league baseball game all concurrently trying to access a wireless network and then trying to access their team s website.

The problem has thus far been examined from the viewpoint of the individual computer user. The problem assumes an added dimension when considered from the point of view of society as a whole. Imagine a large telecommunications network whose capacity is sapped by thousands of computer users who are not using their connections to in electronic network to learn about distant remote places but are instead using their electronic network connections to access information about people and places standing fight in front of them. Even if a telecommunications network could support a vast number of such connections the situation would still remain inherently wasteful and may be likened to telephoning someone within speaking range.

Thus individual computer users should benefit from improvements in their ability to access information at remote locations. Likewise society as a whole should benefit if such improvements are undertaken in a manner that does not inappropriately consume available resources.

An embodiment of the invention is a computer readable medium to direct a portable computing device to function in a specified manner. The computer readable medium comprises a first set of instructions to receive broadcast information including a data repository and formatting information a second set of instructions to facilitate creation of a search query a third set of instructions to retrieve a search result from the data repository based upon the search query and a fourth set of instructions to transform the search result in accordance with the formatting information to produce formatted content.

Another embodiment of the invention is a computer readable medium to direct a portable computing device to function in a specified manner. The computer readable medium comprises a remote application server configured to process information received from a wireless source wherein the information includes a logic portion a data repository and formatting information. The remote application server includes a query generator module configured to produce a search query in accordance with a user input and in accordance with the logic portion a data repository manager module configured to search the data repository in accordance with the search query to retrieve a search result and a content generator module configured to generate content in accordance with the search result and in accordance with the formatting information.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of operating a portable computing device. The method comprises receiving broadcast information including a data repository and formatting information facilitating creation of a search query retrieving a search result from the data repository based upon the search query and transforming the search result in accordance with the formatting information to produce formatted content.

According to embodiments of the invention a system and method provide a rich environment for producing information such as applications and data packaging the information for redistribution to remote nodes and allowing the remote nodes to distribute the information to portable computing devices on demand. Embodiments of the invention allow customers to develop applications and accompanying data for distribution on demand from remote wireless nodes. Embodiments of the distribution network may provide a unique service to companies seeking to reach their customers and employees through a nationwide forum of wireless data nodes. Information e.g. applications and data distributed through the wireless data nodes may comprise text graphics interactive applications corporate databases audio and video.

Embodiments of the invention further provide a system and method for distributing information from remote data nodes that allow portable computing devices having a special client application to receive information from and send information to the remote data nodes at distances exceeding that conventionally available to the portable computing devices. Embodiments of the invention may employ a specialized protocol for information transmission between remote data nodes and portable computing devices that facilitates extended range communications. Embodiments of the distribution system and method may further provide extended transmission and reception range without requiring additional hardware on the portable computing device and without requiring my mechanical adjustments by the user of the portable computing device.

Embodiments of the invention also provide wireless data nodes known as distributors that have been designed for simplicity of use and may be deployed in a fully functional state and require no wiring or major adjustments prior to deployment and use. In some embodiments a distributor may only require that an information transmission window be oriented to face portable computing devices that the distributor may contact. The distributor s components may be placed in a small case of only a few square inches with the distributor operating by battery power unattended for several years while still obtaining new information wirelessly and re distributing the information wirelessly on demand. The distributors may typically reside in both indoor and outdoor environments.

Embodiments of the invention further provide a simple standard mechanism that allows customers to prepare information e.g. applications and or data for distribution and use on the portable computing devices. Embodiments of the invention further provide a seamless transparent information distribution network that provides remote data nodes at geographically dispersed locations with the customer prepared information. Embodiments of the invention additionally provide a unique client application that may be downloaded to portable computing devices by a variety of mechanisms including from wireless data nodes. The client application provides a remote application server for supervising the operations of applications and data provided from the wireless data nodes. The client application also provides a decoder that performs communication tasks on the portable computing device that permits an extended communication range for many portable computing devices without the inclusion of additional hardware or physical device modifications.

The following definitions may apply to some of the elements described with regard to some embodiments of the invention. These terms may likewise be expanded upon herein.

Acknowledgement Signal ACK a signal that may be sent by a portable computing device typically to acknowledge receipt of a beacon and or a broadcast. According to some embodiments of the invention an ACK sent by a portable computing device after receipt of a beacon may prompt a distributor to send a broadcast. An ACK may incorporate a frame or packet of information according to some embodiments of the invention.

Beacon a signal that may be sent by a distributor typically to identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to receive information e.g. application s and or data . According to some embodiments of the invention a beacon may incorporate a frame or packet of information.

Beam Interrogation a signal that may be sent by a distributor typically to identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to download a client. According to some embodiments of the invention a beam interrogation may be generated using a conventional communication protocol such as for example an Infrared Data Association IrDA communication protocol.

Broadcast a signal comprising information e.g. application s and or data that may be sent by a distributor to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a broadcast may incorporate a frame or packet of information.

Client a facility or group of facilities configured to download information e.g. application s and or data to a portable computing device and or configured to process downloaded information. According to some embodiments of the invention a client may comprise a computer program or a group of computer programs that resides within a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a client may include a decoder that is configured to direct communications associated with a transfer of information between a portable computing device and a distributor. According to some embodiments of the invention a client may include a remote application server RAS configured to process application s and or data typically applications and or data downloaded by a portable computing device.

Data Transfer Communication Protocol a set of rules and operating procedures that supervise communications associated with transferring information e.g. application s and or data between a distributor and one or more portable computing devices. According to embodiments of the invention a data transfer communication protocol supervises sending receiving of one or more of the following signals a beacon an ACK and a broadcast. According to embodiments of the invention a data transfer communication protocol may be incorporated in a data transfer module and a data reception module which are respectively included in a distributor and a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a data transfer communication protocol may assist a distributor in conserving its power and or may extend the range of communication beyond a conventional communication range of a portable computing device.

Decoder a facility or group of facilities that is configured to process communication associated with transfer of information e.g. application s and or data between a portable computing device and a distributor. According to some embodiments of the invention a decoder may reside within a portable computing device. The decoder may receive and or process information e.g. applications and or data downloaded by a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a decoder may assist preexisting hardware and or software on a portable computing device to communicate with a distributor. According to some embodiments of the invention a decoder may include a computer program or a group of computer programs that provides a portion of a client communication layer. According to some embodiments of the invention a decoder may include a data reception module that is configured to support a data transfer communication protocol used by a distributor in broadcasting information to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a decoder may include a packet re assembly module that is configured to reassemble packets received according to a data transfer communication protocol and place them into a meaningful data stream that can then be passed to other portions of a client and beyond.

Distribution Network a facility or group of facilities that is configured to deliver information e.g. client application s and or data to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a distribution network may comprise an information provider system that is configured to produce and or to locate information suitable for ultimately downloading to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a distribution network may comprise a structuring system that is configured to deliver information to one or more distributors for eventual downloading to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a distribution network may comprise one or more distributors that provide information to portable computing devices. According to some embodiments of the invention a distribution network may comprise one or more wired and or wireless communication media such as for example an electronic network linking an information provider system and a structuring system and a system communication network linking the structuring system and one or more distributors.

Distributor an apparatus that comprises processing and communication capabilities configured to provide information e.g. client application s and or data to portable computing devices. According to an embodiment of the invention a distributor may comprise a local data cache having a relatively small physical size that dispenses information wirelessly to portable computing devices. A distributor may have wirelessly received the information it wirelessly distributes according to an embodiment of the invention. Distributed information may have some relationship to a location where a distributor is placed according to an embodiment of the invention. A distributor may include a CPU connected to a memory and a communication device. The communication device may be configured for wired and or wireless communications according to one or more communication protocols. A distributor may also comprise other hardware elements such as for example an input output device and or a battery and software elements which may be included in the memory. According to some embodiments of the invention a distributor may receive information from a structuring system via a system communication network and may format the information for transmission to a portable computing device. According to an embodiment of the invention a distributor may comprise a wireless and battery powered apparatus and the distributor may receive information wirelessly from a structuring system and dispense information wirelessly to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a distributor may dispense information having no particular association with a given location. A distributor s operations need not be limited to mere distribution of information to portable computing devices. In some embodiments of the invention a distributor may receive information from portable computing devices and provide the information to other computing systems including other portable computing devices.

Electronic Network any wired and or wireless communication medium across which information e.g. client application s and or data may be sent and or received. Examples of an electronic network include the Internet intranet public switched telephone network PSTN wireless voice and data networks paging networks and television networks such as satellite broadcast cable television and two way interactive cable. Another example of an electronic network includes hybrid systems such as those in which information is sent via one medium such as cable television and information is received via another medium such as the Internet. A further example of an electronic network may include aggregated systems such as where information is sent and or received via multiple media such the Internet the telephone and cable television. According to some embodiments of the invention an electronic network may comprise a wired network through which information passes from an information provider system to a structuring system.

Information Provider System a facility or group of facilities configured to produce and or to upload information e.g. client application s and or data suitable for ultimately downloading to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention an information provider system may comprise a conventional server computer with conventional server computer components including a CPU connected to a memory primary and or secondary . The server computer may also include other components such as for example one or more databases and software elements which may be included in the memory. In particular the software elements may include one or more computer programs configured to facilitate creating and or uploading information e.g. applications and or data to be ultimately downloaded to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention an information provider system may provide information to a structuring system over an electronic network.

Portable Computing Device a relatively lightweight apparatus with processing and communication capabilities. More particularly a portable computing device may comprise an apparatus with processing and communication capabilities that may be carried by a user. Examples of portable computing devices include personal digital assistants PDAs Palm Pilots two way pagers e.g. Blackberry wireless devices cellular phones and laptop computers. According to some embodiments of the invention a portable computing device includes a CPU connected to a memory and a communication device. The communication device may be configured for wired and or wireless communications according to one or more communication protocols. A portable computing device may also include other hardware elements such as for example an input output device and software elements which may be included in the memory.

Remote Application Server RAS a facility or group of facilities that may be configured to process information e.g. application s and or data downloaded by a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a RAS may reside within a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a RAS may execute one or more applications using data downloaded by a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a RAS may include a computer program or a group of computer programs that provides an application layer on a client.

Structuring System a facility or group of facilities configured to deliver information e.g. client application s and or data to one or more distributors for eventual downloading to a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a structuring system may be configured to format information into a format suitable for transmission to a distributor and or into a format suitable for operation on a portable computing device. According to some embodiments of the invention a structuring system may include a conventional server computer with conventional server computer components including a CPU connected to a memory primary and or secondary . The server computer may also comprise other components such as for example a transmitter and software elements which may be included in the memory. According to some embodiments of the invention a structuring system may provide information typically in the form of messages to various distributors over a system communication network. According to some embodiments of the invention a structuring system may receive information from one or more information provider systems over an electronic network.

System Communication Network any wired and or wireless communication medium across which information e.g. client application s and or data may be sent and or received. Examples of a system communication network include paging networks Internet intranet public switched telephone network PSTN wireless voice and data networks and television networks such as satellite broadcast cable television and two way interactive cable. Another example of a system communication network includes hybrid systems such as those in which information is sent via one medium such as cable television and information is received via another medium such as the Internet. A further example of a system communication network may include aggregated systems such as where information is sent and or received via multiple media such the Internet the telephone and cable television. According to some embodiments of the invention a system communication network may comprise a wireless network through which information passes from a structuring system to a distributor. In an embodiment of the invention a system communication network comprises a paging network and information passes from a structuring system to a distributor in the form of paging messages.

The information provider systems may subsequently provide the information to a structuring system over an electronic network . The electronic network may comprise any network suitable for transmitting information such as the Internet a local area network the World Wide Web etc. The structuring system has been configured to format the information e.g. applications and data into a format suitable for operation on the portable computing devices and or into a format suitable for transportation to the distributors . Accordingly information providing systems and personnel associated with the information provider system may require no skill or knowledge of the transportation mechanisms used to place the information on the portable computing devices .

The structuring system provides the information typically in the form of messages to the various distributors over a system communication network . According to an embodiment of the invention the system communication network may comprise a wireless network in which the information passes from a transmitter on the structuring system to a network receiver on the distributor . In an embodiment of the invention the system communication network comprises a paging network and the transmitter sends the information to the distributors in the form of paging messages.

The distributors may comprise wireless data caches that dispense localized information to portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. As wireless and battery powered computing systems the distributors may be placed in a wide variety of environments and have their information routinely updated from the system communication network according to an embodiment of the invention. Embodiments of the distributors may be placed in a small case of only a few square inches and operate unattended for several years.

The distributors may include a network receiver that receives information from the structuring system . The distributors may then format information received from the structuring system for rebroadcast to the portable computing devices . A transceiver system on the distributors may broadcast information on demand to portable computing devices .

The transceiver system may periodically transmit a beacon . A portable computing device that receives the beacon through its transceiver and contains a specialized client may return a first acknowledgement signal ACK to the transceiver system . Receipt of the first ACK may prompt the distributor to send the transceiver a broadcast that incorporates the information transmitted to the distributor from the structuring system . The transceiver may acknowledge the broadcast by sending a second acknowledgement signal ACK . The transceiver system may be specifically designed to send the beacon and the broadcast to the portable computing devices at distances in excess of the conventional communication range for the transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention. In addition the transceiver system may receive the first ACK and the second ACK at distances in excess of the conventional communication range for the transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention.

The portable computing devices typically require no additional hardware in order to receive information broadcasts including extended range broadcasts from the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. However the portable computing devices must typically include the client . The portable computing devices may obtain the client in a variety of ways including from the distributor . In particular the distributor may direct the transceiver system to periodically transmit a beam interrogation to identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to download the client . A portable computing device that receives the beam interrogation through its transceiver may return a beam response to the transceiver system . Receipt of the beam response may prompt the distributor to provide a download signal that downloads the client into the portable computing device . Of course the beam interrogation the beam response and the download signal generally may be within a conventional communication range for the transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention.

The information provider system the structuring system the distributors and the portable computing devices may comprise various forms of computing equipment. In some instances the information provider system and the structuring system may even comprise multiple computing systems. The computing systems used in the distribution network may comprise conventional computer designs according to an embodiment of the invention.

The information provider system may comprise a central processing unit CPU associated with a computer that drives the information provider system . The information provider system may also include a hosting database that retains data such as data pertaining to an entity e.g. customer operating the information provider system which may be helpful in the development of information for the distribution network . An information database may retain information produced using the information provider system and or produced elsewhere and uploaded to the information provider system according to an embodiment of the invention. The information provider system may also include a provider database that retains data pertaining to an entity that provides the structuring system e.g. computer readable instructions for providing information to the structuring system .

The information provider system provides various mechanisms e.g. computer programs for creating and or uploading information for eventual download into individual portable computing devices . The mechanisms provided for creating and or uploading information may include a partner e.g. customer log in portion of the information provider system various templates wizards and an authoring tool. The mechanisms may also provide various means for publishing new information. To allow information provider system operators e.g. customers to enter information targeted to specific distributors and portable computing systems the information provider system may include a simplified programming interface e.g. a web based interface . The information provider system may also include a memory that includes the elements of a development environment for producing information suitable for operation on the portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. Components of a development environment may include an uploader a templater a wizard a GUI composer an HTTP server an application server an XML generator a SQL adapter and a rules wizard . The SQL adapter and the rules wizard may interact with the information database to determine data sets and rules associated with data sets that may be included in the information downloaded to the portable computing devices .

The uploader may provide a mechanism to upload information e.g. applications and or data produced elsewhere to the information provider system . The templater may provide a template s for the creation of information in a format that simplifies development of the information. According to an embodiment of the invention the templater may provide a template with one or more blank spaces that may be filled in with information by an operator of the information provider system . The wizard may provide instructions and complete various tasks thereby freeing the operator of the information provider system from having to know much if anything about the details of the system. According to an embodiment of the invention the wizard queries an operator of the information provider system for information and uses the information to complete a form that builds information e.g. applications and or data that may ultimately be distributed to portable computing devices . The GUI composer provides a user interface to the operator of the information provider system that assists the operator in developing information to be distributed to the portable computing devices . According to an embodiment of the invention the GUI composer provides a web based interface that allows the operator to create and preview information to be distributed to portable computing devices . In some embodiments the uploader the templater the wizard and the GUI composer may be provided in HTML for operation by other components e.g. the HTTP server .

The HTTP server provides various HTML commands that may be used to develop the information downloaded to the portable computing devices . The application server performs the logic that holds the information development environment together and determines which development subcomponents are needed at any given moment in the development process. The XML generator assists in the development of information by serving as a repository for different XML schemas that may be used for information that is provided to the portable computing devices according to some embodiments of the invention. According to some embodiments of the invention the XML generator formats information that has been created and or uploaded into a XML file. According to some embodiments of the invention the XML file may include tags that provide structure and or indicate type of information included in the XML file or a portion of the XML file. According to some embodiments of the invention the XML file which includes information to be delivered to portable computing devices may be transmitted to the structuring system . In such embodiments the XML generator may essentially wrap the information in such a manner that elements on the structuring system may readily gain an understanding of the information s structure e.g. HTML scripts data tables drawings etc. 

The structuring system receives information from one or more information provider systems for eventual transmission to distributors and portable computing devices . According to some embodiments of the invention the structuring system may receive information having a format resembling an XML file from the information provider system . The structuring system may operate on any computing platform and comprises a CPU and a memory . The memory may comprise a number programs and data configured for execution and or operations by the CPU . These programs include a subscriber registry network data message data a message packager and a message publisher .

The subscriber registry retains data associated with the customers of the distribution network . The customers may typically comprise companies organizations and individuals that have information e.g. applications and or data that they would like to make available to portable computing devices via one or more distributors . For example a customer could be a museum that has one or more emplaced distributors on its campus. A customer could also be a large soft drink company that would like to make information e.g. coupons and product offers available at all distributors within a particular geographic region. A customer could also be a business associated with a particular location having installed distributors according to an embodiment of the invention. Each customer may not necessarily have its own information provider system although it is contemplated that many customers would each be associated with a particular information provider system . Of course some customers may have information suitable for downloading to the portable computing devices that has not been developed on an information provider system . The structuring system may receive such information and prepare it for processing in the same manner as information produced on the information provider system . It is assumed that many customers will want to produce information in association with the information provider system although this may not necessarily always be the case.

The network data comprises information regarding the system communication network . The message publisher may access the network data when sending information to be broadcast from the transmitter over the system communication network . The message publisher may retrieve information to be sent to the distributors from the message data .

The message packager attends to processing e.g. formatting information in a manner compatible with the protocol used by the system communication network e.g. the protocol expected by the network receiver . For example an embodiment of the invention may employ a paging network as the system communication network . In such an embodiment the message packager may prepare messages in a format suitable for transmission by a protocol associated with the paging network.

The transmitter performs transmission of information to the distributors across the system communication network . The transmitter may require different hardware software combinations depending upon the system communication network employed. For example an embodiment of the system communication network may comprise a paging network. Accordingly the transmitter may either comprise an actual transmission device that performs broadcasting to distributors in accordance with a particular paging protocol e.g. the one way Flex protocol or the transmitter may comprise a device that provides the information to be broadcast to a third party transmitter that actually performs the transmission. In this later example the transmitter may actually comprise equipment e.g. a modem that provides the information across an electronic network e.g. the Internet to a third party transmitter. An ordinary artisan will recognize that the precise equipment used in the transmitter may depend upon a number of factors provided the resulting combination of equipment properly deliver information across the system communication network to the network receivers in one or more distributors .

In order to take advantage of the information received from the distributor the portable computing devices typically need to receive and install the specialized client configured to receive broadcasts from the distributor and process them on the portable computing device . The distributor may also include reprogramming support so that the distributor itself may receive new programs and or updates for existing programs according to an embodiment of the invention. According to some embodiments of the invention the distributor may receive new programs and or updates for existing programs from the structuring system via the system communication network . Likewise the distributor may receive a new client or an update for an existing client via the system communication network according to an embodiment of the invention. The new client or update for the existing client may be downloaded to the portable computing devices .

In an embodiment of the invention the distributor may collect information e.g. applications and or data from the system communication network e.g. a wireless wide area network and redistribute the information to nearby portable computing devices e.g. distribution within a wireless pico cell . The distributor may use a one way paging network for information reception and a short range two way infrared IR communication mechanism to distribute the information locally to portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. Hence embodiments of the distributor may receive and process paging communications and generate IR communications for information broadcasts to the portable computing devices . According to some embodiments of the invention the distributor may use a one way communication mechanism e.g. a one way IR communication mechanism to distribute information locally to portable computing devices . In particular the distributor may repeatedly send broadcasts for a given time interval s of a given day s according to an embodiment of the invention. According to an embodiment of the invention the distributor need not be prompted by a portable computing device in order to repeatedly send broadcasts . According to some embodiments of the invention the distributor may offer portable computing devices more than one piece of information for downloading. In such embodiments the distributor may offer e.g. download a menu of its available selections for which a user associated with a portable computing device may make a selection which is returned to the distributor using a protocol procedure described herein.

The distributor may operate without user intervention and may typically require no special configuration or maintenance concerns. Embodiments of the distributor may also operate without any connections such as to an external power source or wiring.

The distributor may comprise a network receiver a memory a random access memory RAM a CPU a battery and a transceiver system according to an embodiment of the invention. According to some embodiments of the invention the memory may include a nonvolatile memory. According to some embodiments of the invention the memory may include a volatile memory and or a combination of a volatile memory and a nonvolatile memory. The memory may provide storage for the various programs accessed and run by the CPU . These programs may include a communication server an asset server and an administration server . The communication server may process messages received by the network receiver from the system communication network and forward the processed messages to the asset server . The asset server may identify information incorporated in the processed messages that is to be downloaded to the portable computing devices . The asset server may retain information to be downloaded in a data repository . The administration server may direct the operations of the distributor and supervise maintenance tasks performed on the distributor .

The distributor may include the transceiver system as a means of communicating with portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system may comprise a line of sight communication device such as an infrared transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system may alternatively or in conjunction comprise a short range or medium range radio frequency communication device such as a Bluetooth enabled device according to an embodiment of the invention. An ordinary artisan will recognize that combinations of receiver s and transmitter s may be used in place of or in conjunction with transceiver s in the transceiver system .

The distributor may provide increased power for the transceiver system as a means for increasing the range of its transmissions and or the range from which it can receive transmissions from the portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments the transceiver system may transmit and receive signals at distances considerably in excess of the conventional transmission distances of many portable computing devices e.g. 10 to 30 feet versus 3 feet for Palm Pilots .

The transceiver system may be configured to generate a beacon a broadcast a beam interrogation and a download signal and send these signals to one or more portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system may receive acknowledgement signals ACK and a beam response from the portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. The roles of these signals will be discussed further herein.

While the transceiver system may be made to operate as a RF based system an overall goal of an embodiment of the distribution network is interoperability with pre existing portable computing devices . Since more than a billion portable computing devices already include an infrared IR capability many embodiments of the distributor may support IR communications at least until other communications systems become more popular. Thus as will be discussed the transceiver system may be enabled for receipt of digital and or analog transmissions and may also be enabled to receive point to point and or multicast transmissions according to various embodiments of the invention.

The distributor may include a network receiver . For example the network receiver may receive transmissions from the structuring system via a system communication network . Once the distributor has received and processed a transmission the distributor may then broadcast the transmissions to a plurality of portable computing devices e.g. broadcast in accordance with the protocol described herein . Thus the network receiver receives transmissions into the distributor for later transmission out of the distributor by the transceiver system . As will be discussed embodiments of the invention receive transmissions into the distributor according to a first communication protocol and broadcast information to the portable computing devices according to a second communication protocol.

The network receiver may comprise a communication device configured for receiving paging transmissions according to a one way protocol according to an embodiment of the invention. A suitable one way protocol is Motorola s Flex protocol which may be deployed in an embodiment of the invention. The network receiver may alternatively or in conjunction be configured for reception of radio frequency broadcasts from another radio frequency network according to an embodiment of the invention.

The communication server may direct operations of the network receiver and provide an interface between the distributor and the system communication network . Embodiments of the communication server may support wireless communications. The communication server may manage message formatting and communication protocol tasks needed for communicating with the system communication network . The communication server may also provide message queuing and local message storage of information received over the system communication network . Alternatively or in conjunction the communication server may deliver information to the asset server which may conduct the queuing and storage operations in the data repository according to embodiments of the invention.

The system communication network facilitates communications between the structuring system and the distributors in the distribution network . Thus the system communication network may be used to transfer information from the structuring system to individual distributors . The systems communication network may use a wireless communication system. According to an embodiment of the invention the system communication network may comprise a paging network. For example the system communication network may comprise a one way paging network such as the Flex paging network offered by Motorola .

The system communication network may not necessarily be configured for rapid information transmissions according to an embodiment of the invention. For example embodiments of the Flex paging network which may be used to provide the system communication network typically transmits information at a relatively slow 1600 bps. In addition the system communication network may be shared with transmissions unrelated to the distributors . For example the Flex paging network may comprise page transmissions to any sort of paging device in an urban environment.

Accordingly to account for limits in the amount of information that may be transmitted to the distributors at a given instance operators of the structuring system may send transmissions to the distributors during moments of relatively low traffic such as at night. In addition the operators associated with the structuring system may monitor available bandwidth on the system communication network and send transmissions to the distributors as periods of higher bandwidth arise. Such transmissions may even include sending partial messages to the distributors . In such instances the distributor may reassemble a complete transmission from various messages that it has received.

A protocol that may be used for transmissions between the structuring systems and various distributors is described herein according to an embodiment of the invention.

The distribution network may comprise a plurality of distributors . Each distributor may include a transceiver system as a means of communicating with portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system may comprise a line of sight communication device such as an infrared IR transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system may alternatively or in conjunction comprise a short range or medium range radio frequency communication device such as a Bluetooth enabled device according to an alternative embodiment.

As shown in the transceiver system may comprise an IR transceiver and an IR receiver according to an embodiment of the invention. The IR transceiver may include an IR transmitter receiver pair not shown in . The IR transceiver may conduct IrDA communications e.g. for downloading the client according to an embodiment of the invention. In addition the IR transceiver may conduct transmissions associated with transfer of information to the portable computing devices e.g. sending beacons and broadcasts . According to an embodiment of the invention an output power of the IR transceiver may be increased to increase transmission range of the beacons and broadcasts . The IR receiver may provide additional reception range and sensitivity for transmissions sent to the distributor from the portable computing devices . According to an embodiment of the invention the receiver may provide additional reception range and sensitivity for receiving ACKs sent to the distributor from the portable computing devices .

The transceiver system may be designed to compensate for sources of interference such as sunlight and noise produced by other portable computing devices . Additionally operation of the distributor may require that the function of the transceiver system e.g. its IR port be obvious and conspicuous. Accordingly the transceiver system may include an IR window that facilitates transmissions out of and into the transceiver system . The IR window may act as a filter that reduces distortion and or noise. The distributor may include multiple LEDs not shown in as a means for widening the beam projected by the transceiver system according to an embodiment of the invention.

According to some embodiments of the invention the receiver may operate in conjunction with a filter that enhances the receiver s ability to receive signals within a particular frequency range or within one or more frequency ranges according to an embodiment of the invention. The filter may be of conventional design provided that it keeps the receiver tuned to a particular frequency range or particular frequency ranges according to an embodiment of the invention. For example the filter may comprise a bandpass filter that has been tuned for increased receiver sensitivity at the particular frequency or range of frequencies of the ACKs in order to increase the reception range for the ACKs in the distributor . The receiver may be tuned to a frequency such as 38 kHz or 37.5 kHz to provide optimal performance according to an embodiment of the invention.

The transceiver system may provide three general types of signals according to an embodiment of the invention. These signals include a beacon a broadcast and signals associated with downloading the client e.g. the beam interrogation and the download signal for the client . The transceiver system may provide the beacon in closely spaced intervals e.g. two second intervals as a mechanism for discovering portable computing devices . The transceiver system may be configured to send the broadcast several times to the portable computing devices in order to make sure that a client e.g. the client shown in properly receives the broadcast according to an embodiment of the invention. The various signals provided by the transceiver system may include IR signals centered on a wavelength of 880 nm according to an embodiment of the invention.

The transceiver system may generate IR signals for the beam interrogation the download signal the beacon and or the broadcast according to a first modulation scheme and detect IR signals for the ACKs from the portable computing devices that are generated according to a second modulation scheme according to an embodiment of the invention. For instance the first modulation scheme may be an IrDA type modulation scheme and the second modulation scheme may be similar to the modulation schemes used by television remotes according to an embodiment of the invention.

The distributor may support a 115.2 kbps information transfer rate to portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. To support a timely information transfer the amount of information transmitted from the distributor to a portable computing device may last just a few seconds e.g. 5 seconds per transfer according to an embodiment of the invention. An optimal end user experience may occur when the broadcast is repeated with no more than a few seconds e.g. 5 seconds of latency from the last transmission or when the broadcast occurs within a few seconds e.g. 5 seconds of a request to transmit according to an embodiment of the invention.

The portable computing devices may send the ACKs to the transceiver system . The portable computing devices may transmit the ACKs in a modulated manner that resembles the way in which a television remote control device communicates with a television according to an embodiment of the invention. The ACKs typically comprise a fairly short fixed length transmission. The ACKs may include information regarding the state of the portable computing device its serial number its model number and or various other status and identification information according to an embodiment of the invention. In an alternative embodiment of the invention the portable computing devices may send larger transmissions to the distributors than provided by the ACKs or rather the length of the ACKs may be increased to provide additional information. For instance such additional information may include a request for a given information stored in the memory of the distributor .

As shown in the transceiver system may comprise an IR transceiver unit and a RF transceiver unit according to other embodiments of the invention. The IR transceiver unit may comprise the IR transceiver and the IR receiver as discussed in connection with according to an embodiment of the invention. According to another embodiment of the invention the IR transceiver unit may comprise the IR transceiver the high power IR transmitter and the IR receiver as discussed in connection with . The RF transceiver unit may comprise a short range or medium range radio frequency communication device such as a Bluetooth enabled transceiver or a Bluetooth enabled transmitter receiver pair. A distributor comprising the transceiver system shown in may be configured to communicate with a portable computing device using an IR wireless communication protocol and or a RF wireless communication protocol.

The portable computing device may include a client e.g. the client shown in that facilitates communications with the distributor using the protocol described herein. The distributor or another distributor of the distribution network may provide the client wirelessly to the portable computing devices . The distributor is typically configured to provide the client to portable computing devices upon request according to an embodiment of the invention. Portable computing devices that have not yet received the client must typically be within a conventional communications distance from the distributor in order to receive the client . For example a conventional Palm Pilot must typically be within a meter or less of the distributor in order to receive the client via the transceiver system . Downloading the client may require the use of a conventional IR communication protocol e.g. IrDA and beaming applications which many portable computing devices already support. Thus the distributor s communication software may use the conventional IrDA Object Exchange OBEX protocol layer and associated lower level IrDA protocol layers to distribute the client . In some embodiments the client may be constrained to a size that allows the IrDA transfer to occur within a few seconds e.g. 5 seconds . Alternatively or in conjunction the client may be provided to the portable computing device using an RF communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth . The client may also be provided to the portable computing devices in a variety of mechanisms other than or in addition to downloading from the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. Procedures for downloading the client to the portable computing devices may include factory installation of the client downloading over an electronic network such as the World Wide Web and providing the client in conjunction with the installation of other software. In addition it should be recognized that a portable computing device that includes a first version of the client may download a second version or updated version of the client from the distributor via a broadcast according to an embodiment of the invention.

An ordinary artisan will recognize that embodiment of the distributor may comprise receiving communications via essentially a one way information transmission e.g. from the system communicator network and then subsequently redistributing the communications via another one way information transmission e.g. from the transceiver system . Accordingly the distributor may benefit from error checking and correction techniques since system operators may not easily be able to verify that a given distributor has 1 received a transmission sent to it and 2 made the transmission available for proper redistribution to a portable computing device .

As shown in the distributor may employ a three layer software architecture that insulates high level application functions from the details of low level kernel communications and hardware operations according to an embodiment of the invention The three layers comprising this software architecture are a system layer a platform layer and an application layer . The distributor s system layer software may comprise a kernel operating system hardware drivers and transceiver protocol stacks along with other software that interacts directly with the distributor s hardware. The distributor s platform layer may provide a platform independent interface between lower level functions such as those performed by the system layer and higher level functions such as those performed by the application layer . Thus the application layer may use the platform layer to access kernel services communication functions and any other operations whose implementation is platform specific. Software in the application layer may use lower layer services to deliver the information and software distribution features and supporting functions that comprise the distributor . An ordinary artisan will understand that the separation of platform specific and platform independent code may allow engineers to port the application layer more quickly and reliably to later developed or modified distributors . Thus only the platform layer may typically require changing when porting distributor functionality to a new system layer .

The distributor s application layer software may partition the distributor s functionality into tasks such as for example administration information distribution monitoring functions and or visual feedback according to an embodiment of the invention. As shown in the application layer may comprise the asset server the administration server the communication server and the data repository according to some embodiments of the invention. According to an embodiment of the invention servers in the application layer e.g. the asset server and the administration server may be configured for operations in a multitasking environment i.e. these servers may execute their respective tasks concurrently.

The asset server may manage the data repository e.g. a database . The data repository may be configured to retain information e.g. client application s and or data for subsequent delivery to portable computing devices .

The data repository may also be configured to retain other information such as for example scheduling information for transmissions across the system communication network according to an embodiment of the invention. The asset server may interact with the communication server to receive information sent from the system communication network according to an embodiment of the invention. The asset server may also interact with the communication server to deliver information to portable computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention.

According to some embodiments of the invention the communication server may provide an interface or link between the asset server and or the administration server and communication stacks . In particular the communication server may direct assembly or disassembly compression or decompression error checking and or formatting of information passed between the asset server and or the administration server and the communication stacks . According to some embodiments of the invention the communication server may maintain and or construct one or more communication paths between the asset server and the communication stacks . A communication path may be a chain of an input output stream that processes information from an information source at one end e.g. the communication stacks such that an information recipient at another end e.g. the asset server may recognize and or utilize the information. According to one embodiment of the invention a communication path may include one or more operations or processing steps. For instance a communication path associated with the network receiver may include operations such as 1 receive information packets from network receiver communication stacks 2 assemble and or sort the packets 3 perform error checking analysis e.g. checksum validation 4 decompress the information in the packets and 5 deliver the information to the asset server . As another example a communication path associated with the transceiver system may include one or more operations that receive information from the asset server and convert the information into a format that may be used by the transceiver protocol stacks for broadcasting to portable computing devices via the transceiver system .

According to some embodiments of the invention the communication server may dynamically construct a communication path in accordance with one or more commands. For instance the asset server may issue a first command or a first set of commands at a given time to direct the communication server to dynamically construct a communication path for communications received from the system communication network and the asset server may issue a second command or a second set of commands to direct the communication server to dynamically construct a communication path for communications associated with the transceiver system . According to an embodiment of the invention one or more of these commands may be retained in the data repository . The retained commands in the data repository may be received at various times e.g. distributor initialization from a system communication network transmission etc. According to an embodiment of the invention one or more commands may be transmitted from the structuring system over the system communication network . Alternatively or in conjunction one or more commands may be transmitted by a portable computing device and received by the transceiver system .

The communication server may include rules for directing the assembly of broadcasts to specific clients that accommodate different client capabilities and limitations that may differ across portable computing device platforms and versions. Likewise the communication server may prepare broadcasts to withstand the possible loss of data during transmission e.g. error correction and redundancy. For example the communication server s payload assembly rules may encode dependencies among payload elements that may permit the transceiver protocol stacks to deliver partial information to a portable computing device while maintaining consistent referential integrity e.g. the client on the portable computing device can receive information in pieces and can determine when it has received a complete transmission.

An administration server on the distributor provides an interface for managing the distributor s configuration and data. The administration server may receive data and instructions pertaining to maintenance and operations of the distributor and perform the requested updates. The data and instructions may be received from the structuring system e.g. via the system communication network and or from other systems such as a portable computing device configured for administrative operations. For example the administration server may set schedules for when the distributor receives and broadcasts information collect and provide diagnostic information and perform any other functions that modify or expose the state of the distributor . In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the administration server may manage or retain one or more identification codes that indicate which transmissions sent over the system communication network should be received by the distributor . The administration server may include a status monitor that checks various distributor operations and reports on their condition for subsequent analysis by internal device monitoring and support services as well as for subsequent downloading to administrative devices. According to an embodiment of the invention the administration server may monitor state and statistical information such as for example number of client downloads number of application s and or data downloads and total bytes stored in the data repository .

The platform layer may free the application layer from having to perform platform specific operations and provide an interface with the system layer . In some embodiments the platform layer may provide a platform independent interface to system layer services. The platform layer may manage platform specific operations using a manager that frees the application layer from having to know the details of these activities.

The platform layer may define the cross platform interface to services provided by the kernel such as multitasking synchronization mutual exclusion messaging timing and storage. The platform layer may also homogenize the communication features of the system layer with an abstract endpoint interface . The application layer may instantiate active or passive endpoints that provide connectionless streaming or transactional communication over one or more of the platform layer s physical interfaces.

The platform layer may encapsulate or abstract hardware specific features and operations. The platform layer may provide the application layer access to non volatile parameters such as distributor device ID platform version and persistent application parameter storage. The platform layer may further provide a view of the platform feature set an interface to the status indicator and access to hardware operations like reset. To the extent possible the platform layer may handle power management operations freeing the details of these operations from the application layer . The platform layer may offer platform specific diagnostic functions like machine exception handling stack tracing and memory auditing. The platform layer may also provide the application layer with access to a suite of test functions defined by the system layer .

The system layer may contain functions that directly interface to and control the distributor s hardware. The system layer may include application programming interfaces APIs that may be defined for presentation to the platform layer for facilitating control and communications functions. The APIs may be included for any existing functionality and devices used in the distributor . For example pre defined APIs for borrowed software e.g. FLEX and IrDA communications stacks that may be included in the communication stacks may be integrated into the APIs provided by the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. Additionally the platform layer may also benefit from pre existing software from other components e.g. if the distributor uses a Scout Electromedia Modo motherboard then some of the accompanying Scout software may possibly also be used . Pre existing APIs may be presented as is to the platform layer and simply added to other interfaces required for controlling the distributor s hardware and communications mechanisms according to an embodiment of the invention. Of course an ordinary artisan will recognize that a certain amount of testing and modifications may be needed with any integration activity.

In addition the system layer may include the communications stacks associated with physical devices such as the network receiver and the transceiver system . For example the system layer may provide the network receiver communication stacks for the network receiver and the transceiver protocol stacks for the transceiver system . The system layer may also provide a test function that supports both engineering and manufacturing test functions and diagnostics.

The network receiver communication stacks may be configured to direct the network receiver to send and or receive information over the system communication network . The network receiver communication stacks may include functionality borrowed from pre existing systems e.g. the Flex communication stack . An ordinary artisan will recognize that pre existing communication stacks may sometimes not provide all the functionality needed for a given embodiment and pre existing communications stacks may occasionally cease to be supported by their original manufacturer. Accordingly an ordinary artisan will recognize that some additional modifications may need to be made from time to time to any re used device or software e.g. a communications stack .

The transceiver protocol stacks may comprise one or more communication stacks that direct operation of the transceiver system in communicating with portable computing devices . According to some embodiments of the invention the transceiver protocol stacks include a first communication stack associated with a conventional communication protocol e.g. IrDA and or Bluetooth and a second communication stack associated with a data transfer communication protocol. According to some embodiments of the invention a conventional communication protocol may direct downloading the client to portable computing devices and or other conventional communications between the distributor and portable computing devices . According to some embodiments of the invention a data transfer communication protocol may direct transfer of application s and or data to portable computing devices that have downloaded the client . Additional details regarding specific embodiments of the transceiver protocol stacks are described herein.

The system layer may also include components such as a real time operating system RTOS a bootloader and hardware drivers . The distributor may use any conventional RTOS. A pre emptive multi tasking operating system may provide better performance than other RTOS. For example an embodiment of the distributor may use the MicroC Operating System II uC OS II RTOS while other embodiments may use operating systems such as for example WinCE or Unix.

The bootloader may be the first task run at power up. The bootloader may support any necessary hardware initializations and may pass control over to either the distributor s standard application e.g. the asset server or a test and diagnostics function e.g. the administration server . The bootloader s passage of control may be based on the receipt of a specific command on the serial port in a defined timeframe after power up according to an embodiment of the invention. The distributor may also be placed in the test and diagnostics mode via a command once the distributor s standard application is running. The bootloader may comprise pre existing electronics used in constructing the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. For example the bootloader already programmed into the Scout Modo electronics may be used to simplify the loading of new software into existing hardware according to an embodiment of the invention.

The system layer may also provide the hardware drivers that control and communicate with the distributor s hardware. Depending on the function a System API may provide a direct interface to the drivers e.g. for well defined or simple tasks or an abstraction layer e.g. for more complex tasks such as timing dependent operations .

The system layer may integrate the communications stacks used by devices associated with the distributor . For example in one embodiment of the invention the system layer may integrate communication stacks for the Flex paging network used by the network receiver and the IR communication stack used by the transceiver system . In a further embodiment in which the Flex paging network is used for the network receiver the Motorola Dragonball FLEX R4.3 communication stack may be integrated as is into the system layer . Similarly a further embodiment may use either the ESI or EmbedNET communication stacks as an IrDA communication stack for the transceiver system . An ordinary artisan will recognize that other communication stacks may be used or developed rather than or in addition to the communication stacks identified above. In addition embodiments of the invention using the data transfer communication protocol disclosed herein may also use an IR communication stack that supports the beacon ACK and broadcast protocol for extended IR range.

The distributor may have an internal RAM . While the RAM may conceivably be almost any size a minimum of 256 kbytes may provide adequate performance for some embodiments of the invention. For example local information broadcasts to the portable computing devices may be constrained in size by a maximum time available for transmission. Thus a maximum time available for transmitting over an IR link may be approximately 50 kbytes for 5 seconds according to an embodiment of the invention. The RAM having a 256 kbytes size may be adequate for this task although larger memories might provide better overall performance. The RAM may support the run time needs of the distributor s software e.g. the communication server according to an embodiment of the invention. In addition to providing run time memory the RAM may provide storage of application s and or data to be broadcast to the portable computing devices as well as storing the client . The RAM may comprise dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM according to various embodiments of the invention.

Internal memory e.g. the memory may typically be required to store the distributor s executable software software for the portable computing device and application s and or data to be broadcast to the portable computing device . While the memory may be almost any size a 2 Mbyte size may provide adequate performance for some embodiments. According to some embodiments of the invention the memory may be a flash memory that may be used for storing executable software to simplify the later addition of new or updated software for the distributor .

The distributor may provide considerable ease of operation for associated vendors. For example the distributor may generally be zero deployment in the sense that the distributor may only require a battery power source which can be installed by the manufacturer in the factory and the distributor need not necessarily include any configurable elements e.g. a power cord that require attention by a user who installs the distributor . Installation may merely require some minor attention to the orientation of the transceiver system which may be provided in the form of simple instructions.

The distributor s serial number or other device identification may be provided by the distributor s manufacturer to the system operator e.g. an owner s agent so that the operator may send a wakeup signal over a wired or wireless network e.g. the system communication network to the distributor . The wakeup signal may be targeted for the distributor by incorporating the distributor s serial number. In this manner the system operator need not take physical possession of the distributor in order to attain its proper integration into the distribution network . Thus one party could manufacture the distributor and another party could install the distributor in a given location for operation by yet another party.

In an embodiment of the invention the distributors may be manufactured such that they receive a message from the system communication network or a broadcast mimicking a transmission from the system communication network that provides the distributor with its identification code. For example if the network receiver comprises a pager receiver then the broadcast could provide it with a capcode and an initial broadcast schedule. Having received its identity in the factory the distributor may simply wait until its deployment before receiving regular broadcasts from the system communication network . Of course the distributor could possibly begin receiving broadcasts immediately such as when the distributor s operator wants to provide the device with software not available at the factory e.g. updates or confidential propriety software.

A typical portable computing device may include the transceiver a CPU and a memory . According to some embodiments of the invention the memory may include a nonvolatile memory. According to some embodiments of the invention the memory may include a volatile memory and or a combination of a volatile memory and a nonvolatile memory. Of course the portable computing device may also include other hardware e.g. a RAM and software elements. The transceiver is typically configured for wireless communications according to a known wireless communication protocol e.g. IrDA communication protocol . An ordinary artisan will understand that the transceiver may be replaced with a transmitter and a receiver such that the portable computing device s communications will continue to operate in a similar manner. Programs retained in the memory may be processed by the CPU .

The client typically comprises a decoder and a remote application server RAS according to an embodiment of the invention. Applications and data typically comprise information received from the distributor via a broadcast . The RAS typically executes the applications using the data upon receiving a program execution instruction such as may be provided by a user of the portable computing device according to an embodiment of the invention. The complete client may be fairly lightweight and around 100K in size according to an embodiment of the invention.

While the portable computing device may be any portable computing device for at least one embodiment of the invention the portable computing device is a Palm Pilot and the distribution network has been designed to operate in conjunction with the Palm operating system Palm OS . So in this embodiment the distributor is designed to provide the client for operation on or in conjunction with a Palm operating system.

The distributor may include functionality for determining what kind of an operating system resides on a given portable computing device according to embodiments of the invention. The distributor may read the portable computing device s signature and then respond with an IrDA query e.g. What are you According to some embodiments of the invention a distributor determines the operating system of a given portable computing device from information incorporated in a beam response . Having determined the particular operating system the distributor may select a client appropriate for the operating system and download the client to the portable computing device . Another portable computing device identification method may comprise developing the client to operate on a preferred platform such as a Palm proprietary system and then providing some other functionality for bootstrapping the Palm implementation into other systems. Available operating systems may include the Palm operating system pocket PC and WinCE.

The decoder may comprise components such as 1 a data reception module 2 a packet re assembly module 3 and a package interpretation module that interprets the overall package received. Like many other elements of the distribution network embodiments of the decoder may comprise software or circuitry as well as hybrids comprising both software and circuitry. The decoder directs operations of the transceiver in communicating with the distributor .

The data reception module may be configured to understand the data transfer communication protocol s used by the distributor in broadcasting information to the portable computing device . Operations of the data reception module with respect to data transfer communication protocol s will be described further herein. The data reception module may look for dropped packets and may wait for a re broadcast in order to attain any dropped packets.

According to some embodiments of the invention the data reception module may configure hardware and or software of the portable computing device to generate a signal with particular physical characteristic s such as for example with a particular encoding scheme a particular modulation scheme and or a particular information transmission rate. According to some embodiments of the invention the data reception module configures the portable computing device to generate the ACK with physical characteristic s that enable the transceiver system of the distributor to receive the ACK at a greater distance from the portable computing device . The physical characteristic s of the ACK may differ from physical characteristic s of a signal generated in accordance with a conventional communication protocol e.g. IrDA . According to some embodiments of the invention the data reception module may configure the portable computing device to generate an ACK with physical characteristic s similar to that used in conventional IR remote controls such as for example a conventional television remote control. In particular some embodiments of the data reception module may direct the transceiver to transmit an ACK at a transmission rate of 1200 bps using a non return to zero NRZ encoding scheme with a 37.5 kilohertz kHz amplitude shift keying ASK modulation scheme wherein a 37.5 kHz IR tone is generated for a binary 0 and an IR tone is not sent for a binary 1 .

As shown in embodiments of the portable computing device may include a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter DART . The DART may be incorporated in the CPU or may be configured as a separate device. According to some embodiments the data reception module may configure the portable computing device to transmit a non IrDA type ACK by configuring the UART and controlling the CPU s UART TXD pin not shown directly. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand the UART TXD pin in a conventional portable computing device e.g. a Palm Pilot may be configured as a general purpose I O pin or as an UART pin. According to one embodiment of the invention the UART baud rate is configured to 75 000 bps and the UART s mode is changed from IrDA to NRZ and the UART TXD pin polarity set appropriately . According to this embodiment of the invention NRZ is used because a resulting IR pulse shape is more appropriate for the 37.5 kHz ASK modulation. In this embodiment to transmit a binary 0 with a 37.5 kHz IR tone the UART repeatedly sends a character 0x55 to the transceiver for the duration of a 1200 bps bit time. At 75 000 bps the character 0x55 will produce a 37.5 kHz IR tone. In this embodiment to transmit a binary 1 no IR tone the UART still transmits characters for timing purposes but the UART TXD pin is configured as a general purpose I O and is forced low or high depending on the detected hardware polarity to force the transceiver off. It should be recognized that other combinations of characters sent to the transceiver and UART baud rate may be selected to generate a 37.5 kHz IR tone according to some embodiments of the invention. For example according to one embodiment of the invention a 37.5 kHz IR tone is generated by configuring the UART baud rate to 150 000 bps and configuring the UART to repeatedly send a character 0x33 to the transceiver for the duration of the ACK bit time e.g. the duration of a 1200 bps bit time . Likewise various combinations of character sent to the transceiver and DART baud rate may be selected to generate IR tones of different frequencies e.g. frequencies different from 37.5 kHz .

It should be recognized that the data reception module may configure the portable computing device to generate an ACK having various physical characteristic s e.g. characteristic s that allow for an increased transmission range of the ACK . Embodiments of the data reception module may direct a portable computing device to generate signals with various physical characteristic s by controlling one or more of the following 1 UART baud rate 2 DART mode e.g. IrDA or NRZ 3 DART TXD pin 4 character s sent by the UART to the transceiver and 5 duration for which a given character is sent by the UART to the transceiver . For instance one embodiment of the data reception module may configure the portable computing device to generate an ACK using a frequency shift keying FSK modulation scheme. In this embodiment the UART may repeatedly send a character e.g. 0x55 to the transceiver and the UART baud rate may be varied for consecutive ACK bit times.

The packet re assembly module may reassemble the packets received according to the data transfer communication protocol and place them into a meaningful data stream that can then be passed to other portions of the client and beyond. In an embodiment of the invention the distributor s data transfer communication protocol may operate with a single broadcast payload per distribution with a plurality of packets. The packet re assembly module may reassemble packets that are received out of order even when received across multiple broadcasts from the distributor . The number of packets received may be determined by a size of the overall broadcast payload according to an embodiment of the invention.

Once a complete broadcast has been received the decoder may perform error correction before making the resulting information e.g. an application and or data available to the remote application server RAS . The distribution network may use error correcting codes in the manner known to ordinary artisans in the relevant field.

According to some embodiments of the invention information received via a broadcast may comprise one or more of the following a data repository a logic portion and formatting information. The data repository may include data e.g. organized in the form of a Structured Query Language SQL table that may be accessed by the RAS to generate content at the portable computing device . The logic portion may include instructions that specify action s or processing to be undertaken in response to a user input. In particular the logic portion includes instructions that may be executed by the RAS to produce a search query of the data repository in accordance with a user input according to an embodiment of the invention. The formatting information may specify presentation and or layout of the content generated by the RAS which content may be displayed to a user of the portable computing device . According to an embodiment of the invention information downloaded by a portable computing device may comprise a HTML file that includes an embedded programming code e.g. a Java based scripting language code a JavaScript code or a Visual Basic Script code . In this embodiment the formatting information may comprise HTML tags in the HTML file and the logic portion may comprise the embedded programming code. According to an embodiment of the invention the logic portion may comprise one or more SQL queries corresponding to one or more user inputs.

According to some embodiments of the invention a RAS processes information received via a broadcast to generate content at the portable computing device . According to an embodiment of the invention the RAS dynamically generates data driven content at the portable computing device . illustrates a RAS according to an embodiment of the invention. As shown in the RAS may include a display module e.g. a HTML browser a data repository manager module e.g. a SQL database manager a query generator module e.g. a SQL query engine and a content generator module e.g. a JavaServer Page JSP template engine a Common Gateway Interface CGI program or an Active Server Page ASP engine .

According to an embodiment of the invention the RAS may first pass the retrieved results to a results page prepared by a reduced instruction JavaServer Page template engine or JSPlite template engine according to an embodiment of the invention. The JSPlite template engine may use a standard template format in preparing results pages. In other words a template may be created on the basis of particular results obtained from the SQL query rather than having been previously prepared and stored. Thus the RAS may take data from a SQL table format the data according to the SQL query and then provide an appropriate HTML page for display using the HTML browser . This approach allows the user to conduct searches mine data and create new HTML pages on the fly on the portable computing device .

The JSPlite template engine may perform SQL queries via the SQL database manager . The JSPlite template engine represents a reduced Java virtual decoder. The JSPlite template engine may provide a SQL browser that provides Java interpretation and a script interpreter of the JAVA VM. The client may include a complete Java virtual decoder according to an embodiment of the invention. As previously discussed embodiments of the JSPlite template engine represent a reduced embodiment of typical JSP functionality. While the specific functionality retained may vary the JSPlite template engine should generally retain JSP s ability to perform template operations. Of course an ordinary artisan will recognize that programs similar to JSP may be used in place of JSP in the JSPlite template engine .

As shown in the RAS may include a personality database and a transaction manager . The personality database may retain session information and or any other information pertaining to a user of the portable computing device according to an embodiment of the invention. Information retained in the personality database may be used for example to prepare a personalized results page and or to restore settings on the HTML browser in accordance with a user s preferences or past use. Also information retained in the personality database may be utilized beyond the client such as for use by a conventional application in the portable computing device . As a further example session information retained in the personality database may include transaction s and or user modification s to downloaded information that may used for information synchronization described as follows.

The transaction manager may direct the synchronization of information according to some embodiments of the invention. According to an embodiment of the invention the transaction manager may synchronize information in one or more of the following situations 1 information stored in a data repository e.g. the information database of the information provider system is downloaded by a user of the portable computing device and is altered and or manipulated by the user and 2 information stored in a data repository is downloaded by the user and the information is altered in the data repository during a period of disconnection between the portable computing device and the original data source. In one or both of these two situations the transaction manager may synchronize information by reconciling differences if any between information stored in the data repository and information stored in the portable computing device . As previously described the transaction manager may reference session information retained in the personality database . Alternatively or in conjunction the transaction manager may reference information stored elsewhere in the portable computing device e.g. the memory and or in the data repository. The transaction manager may synchronize information via the distributor . According to an embodiment of the invention the transaction manager may synchronize information via a distributor having a back channel to communicate with the data repository e.g. via the system communication network . Alternatively or in conjunction the transaction manager may synchronize information via any device that may provide a link to the data repository of interest. For instance the transaction manager may synchronize information retained in a memory of a database associated with a website via a conventional personal computer with the corresponding information retained in the portable computing device . In other words a user of a portable computing device could obtain information from a distributor use and manipulate the information for a while and then later electronically couple the portable computing device to some sort of electronic network e.g. a personal computer connected to the Internet and communicate with a database configured to retain the previously downloaded information and obtain updates to the information thereby.

In a sample baseball application the client may download one or more packets as part of a complete broadcast that when reassembled provide a wealth of baseball statistics including a scorecard and digital baseball cards. The end user may then organize this information through a number of queries that instigate SQL commands which then end up producing dynamic HTML pages. While production of dynamic HTML pages may be known the production of such pages is typically performed on a server computer that is electronically coupled to a client computer over an electronic network rather than resident on the same computer as is the case with embodiments of the present invention. Of course the information downloaded may also include supporting graphical objects e.g. gif and .jpg formats and or sound objects and or audio visual objects. In an embodiment of the invention high level software converts the .gif graphics files into rle bitmap format because it is generally easier to reproduce this format into the gif formats on the portable computing device because portable computing devices often have limited CPU capacities.

The client may be configured for auto configuration and or auto launch of the applications received from the distributor . Thus once the client has been downloaded by the portable computing device the client may automatically activate to receive a broadcast from the distributor . Alternatively or in conjunction once the client has received a broadcast from the distributor the client may automatically transform the received broadcast into an application capable of operation on the portable computing device and then launch the application e.g. for operation on the RAS . The client may also use a timing function with new broadcasts such that a new program may start running within a few seconds of its download rather than immediately. Of course users of the portable computing device may be given the opportunity to reconfigure the client so that it does not automatically configure and launch newly received broadcasts . However since the distributor may often be broadcasting information of local interest to users of portable computing devices the broadcast may often be of an immediate or even an urgent interest for the users associated with the portable computing devices .

Embodiments of the RAS and associated applications may essentially provide a three tiered Internet architecture in which the server e.g. the SQL database manager and the JSPlite template engine and client e.g. the HTML browser both reside on the same computing system e.g. the portable computing device . This computing paradigm allows creators of information e.g. applications and data to produce information suitable for downloading to the portable computing devices in the same or similar paradigm e.g. manner as they might use in producing an application for operation in a conventional three tiered Internet architecture. The RAS allows code e.g. the applications and data e.g. the data to remain separated as they are in a typical three tiered Internet architecture. In addition users of the applications performed by the RAS on portable computing devices may interact with a user interface in much the same manner that users of Internet based applications interact with applications operating on a three tiered Internet architecture. Moreover according to embodiments of the invention applications operating via the RAS may continue to take advantage of the fairly well developed standards for Internet applications e.g. logic layout and data.

The data repository comprises the data that may be manipulated and presented by an application in the application and data . The HTML comprises the HTML information associated with the application and may indicate how particular data elements should be displayed by the HTML browser as well as providing instructions for actions to be taken in response to user interactions with the application according to an embodiment of the invention. The SQL query list provides instructions regarding how the data in the data repository may be formatted into an SQL database for operation by the SQL database manager . The SQL query list further defines rules for retrieval of and interactions between data in the data repository according to an embodiment of the invention. The SQL query list and the SQL database manager may generally operate in the conventional manner for such components although such components in a client server system are not typically located on the same computer which is the case with embodiments of the present invention.

Individual distributors may receive information broadcast via the system communication network e.g. pages broadcast across a Flex paging network. An embodiment of the distributor may include the network receiver configured to receive communications from the system communication network . Specifically an embodiment of the network receiver may be a Flex receiver that provides communications within North American 900 MHz paging networks. The distributors may be customized either individually or in groups for specific customers such that the distributor only needs to pay attention to specific broadcasts e.g. Groupcasts. . In a Groupcast many distributors may receive identical transmissions. Thus the Groupcasts may effectively provide broadcasts for specific customer groups.

According to an embodiment of the invention schedules may be provided at the end of each Groupcast. In addition schedules may be provided by special broadcast messages repeated regularly during the day. These broadcasts may allow distributors that have either lost their schedules or have just been powered up to synchronize themselves with the system communication network . Messages broadcast to the distributors may be preceded by one or more identification codes that identifies which distributor s should receive the communication following the identification code s . For example if the system communication network is a Flex paging network then each distributor will typically have its own capcode e.g. a pager address . Of course the same capcode could be assigned to a group of distributors such as a group of related distributors . In any event information transmissions sent across the system communication network may be preceded by identification codes indicating which distributor s should receive the transmission. The administration server may instruct the network receiver to ignore a broadcast that does not contain its identification code. Ignoring the subsequent transmission may allow the distributor to conserve and prolong the life of the battery .

The distributor identification codes may be assigned in such a manner that a given distributor may have more than one identification code. For example a given distributor may have an identification code that corresponds to maintenance information applicable to several distributors one or more identification codes pertaining to a given group of distributors e.g. all distributors assigned to provide information for a given advertiser or in a given location and then another identification code unique to the specific distributor itself. Alternatively a distributor may have only one identification code and transmissions across the system communication network may simply include the identification codes of all distributors that should receive the transmission e.g. different distributors have different listening schedules. Of course embodiments of the invention may also comprise hybrids of these approaches as well.

Messages transmitted across the system communication network may comprise two general formats according to an embodiment of the invention. One message type may comprise generic scheduling messages and another type of message may comprise information pertinent to all distributors or at least a relatively large group of distributors . For example the distributor may be scheduled to wake up at a specific time in order to receive scheduling instructions. Thus the distributor may be scheduled to wake up every day at noon and midnight to receive scheduling information regarding its next information transmission. If a new customer desires to have a given distributor receive new information for redistribution to a portable computing device then the scheduling transmission could tell the distributor when to wake up and receive the new information for subsequent redistribution. Likewise a scheduling transmission could inform the distributor when it would next receive information related to its routine maintenance e.g. an update for its system software such as a new error correction mechanism. As previously noted the distributor generally needs to conserve the battery . Accordingly many most elements of the distributor may be turned off or be in a powered down or sleep mode when not transmitting information to and or receiving a response from portable computing devices and when not receiving transmissions from the system communication network . In addition embodiments of the distributor may have a small case that may not allow for large sized batteries in the distributor s small case. Scheduling messages may consequently support a battery conservation procedure according to an embodiment of the invention.

Overlapping distributor schedules may also provide another mechanism for transmitting similar or related information to a group of distributors and or to all distributors . For example a given distributor s schedule could include three transmissions during a given day. Other distributors may also be scheduled to receive one of the transmissions for example while still other distributors may also be scheduled to receive another one of the transmissions.

The distributor may use the following procedure in receiving transmissions from the system communication network according to an embodiment of the invention. The distributor is turned on at a given time in accordance with a previously received scheduling transmission and listens for its identification code e.g. its capcode . Once the communication server recognizes the identification code then the network receiver receives the broadcast that includes the identification code. The information transmitted to the distributor may be compressed before transmission. Accordingly the communication server may decompress the received transmissions. The communication server may also perform various assembling formatting and or error checking and correction steps on the received transmission. The communication server may then analyze the transmission to determine its type e.g. is the transmission intended for rebroadcast to portable computing devices or is the transmission intended for the distributor itself. If the transmission is intended for rebroadcast then the communication server may forward the transmission to the asset server for storage in the data repository for later broadcast to the portable computing devices . If the transmission is intended for the distributor then the communication server may allow the administrative server to process the transmitted information. To conserve network bandwidth the communication server may support incremental information updates and multicast addressing. The system communication network may send fully localized information to a single distributor or identical information to a group of distributors simultaneously.

The distributor may store information transmitted through the system communication network locally for rebroadcast to portable computing devices . The data repository may be configured to retain information transmitted across the system communication network as well as information generated locally by operation of the distributor and information received from the portable computing devices .

Alternatively the network receiver and the communication server may be adapted for two way communications such as by using the Reflex protocol provided by Motorola . Of course the network receiver may require some form of transmission capability in order to broadcast information back to the system communication network . Some two way protocols such as the Reflex protocol may allow the distributor to send status and verification data back through the system communication network . This information may be subsequently used for performing maintenance on the distributor and or rebroadcasting transmissions not acknowledged as properly received by the distributor . The distributor may also be adapted for communications using a two way protocol that supports continuous flows of information packets across a network such as the system communication network . The General Packet Radio Service GPRS is a representative continuous flow protocol although other protocols could also be used. An ordinary artisan will recognize that the network receiver may require modifications and or updates to suit the particular communication mechanism embodied in the system communication network .

The distributor s communications needs from the system communication network may not necessarily be supported by all embodiments of conventional systems. For example if the system communication network comprises a paging network then paging operators may encounter some difficulties with functions such as multi phase usage binary messages and large information transfers associated with a particular paging network embodiment. Accordingly an ordinary artisan will recognize that usage of these features may identify problems that will require remedial action.

In addition to sending one or more beacons the transceiver system may also send one or more beam interrogations . A beam interrogation is a polling signal that may identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to download the client . By downloading the client the portable computing device may properly recognize and respond to a beacon and proceed with receiving information transfer from the distributor . In an embodiment of the invention the client may comprise software configured to recognize and respond to communications from the transceiver system and may not necessarily include a capability for operating specialized programs e.g. a data reception module only . In another embodiment of the invention a portable computing device may download the client from another source e.g. a source other than the distributor such as the Internet and a distributor may simply send beacons at various times.

It should be recognized that the various signals shown in are each of finite time duration and the times shown may be measured for example from the start of transmission of the signals. As shown in the transceiver system sends beacons at times t t t and t. As discussed previously the transceiver system sends a beacon to identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to receive an information transfer. A portable computing device that is ready to receive an information transfer may respond to a beacon by sending an acknowledgment signal ACK . In an embodiment of the invention a portable computing device that does not yet include the client may not recognize and hence may not respond to a beacon . According to an embodiment of the invention communication associated with information transfer including sending receiving a beacon and or an ACK occurs via a data transfer communication protocol that may be incorporated in a data transfer module described herein and the data reception module . The data transfer module and the data reception module typically complement one another and are respectively included in the distributor and the portable computing device .

In the embodiment shown in the distributor also sends beam interrogations interleaved among the various beacons i.e. at times tand t. The transceiver system sends the beam interrogations to identify the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to download the client . A portable computing device that is ready to download the client may respond to a beam interrogation by sending a conventional beam response . In an embodiment of the invention communication associated with downloading of a client including sending receiving a beam interrogation and or a beam response occurs via a conventional communication protocol that is included in the distributor and the portable computing device and the portable computing device may recognize and respond to a beam interrogation without having to first download a computer program and or undergo hardware modifications.

According to some embodiments of the invention an administration server e.g. the administration server directs when and or which communication protocol a distributor should use in communicating with a portable computing device . In particular the administration server directs when and or how often the transceiver system sends beacons and or beam interrogations . In an embodiment of the invention one or more of the times shown in may be automatically adjusted depending on demand for information transfer and or demand for client download. For instance if the distributor does not receive a response to its beacons and beam interrogations for a period of time the administration server may direct the distributor to reduce the frequency of signals sent from one every 2 seconds to one every 3 seconds. While shows two beacons sent for every one beam interrogation sent it should be recognized that the relative frequency with which the transceiver system sends beacons and beam interrogations may be automatically adjusted depending on demand for information transfer and or demand for client download. For instance if there is a high demand for information transfer and a low demand for client download the distributor may send a beacon at time tinstead of a beam interrogation .

A consecutive time interval as shown in will typically be longer if the transceiver system receives a response not shown in to a beacon or a beam interrogation . If a response is received after a beacon is sent for example at time t the time interval before another beacon or beam interrogation is sent should be sufficient to allow the transceiver system to transfer information to a portable computing device that sent the response. Also if a response is received after a beam interrogation is sent for example at time t the time interval before another beacon or beam interrogation is sent should be sufficient to allow the distributor to transfer the client to a portable computing device that sent the response. This latter situation is illustrated in .

As shown in the distributor sends a beam interrogation at time tand receives a beam response sent by a portable computing device at time t. Subsequent to receiving the beam response and within the time interval tto t the distributor transfers the client to the portable computing device . In particular the transceiver system may send a download signal not shown in that incorporates the client . As discussed previously communication between the distributor and the portable computing device during the time interval tto tmay be conducted in accordance with a conventional communication protocol that is included in the distributor and the portable computing device e.g. the portable computing device s normal communication protocol for wirelessly sending and receiving information . For example communication in this time interval may be according to a conventional infrared IR communication protocol such as for example an Infrared Data Association IrDA communication protocol. Once the portable computing device has downloaded the client which includes the data reception module the portable computing device may receive information transfer from the distributor via the data transfer communication protocol.

As shown in a data transfer module and a conventional communication protocol module may be included in the transceiver protocol stacks of the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. With reference to the data reception module may be included in the decoder which in turn may be included in the client downloaded by the portable computing device according to an embodiment of the invention. With reference to a conventional communication protocol module may include pre existing software included in the memory and or pre existing hardware of the portable computing device according to an embodiment of the invention.

As discussed previously communication associated with information transfer occurs via the data transfer communication protocol according to an embodiment of the invention. The data transfer communication protocol may include rules and operating procedures that direct communication between the distributor and the portable computing device associated with information transfer. The data transfer communication protocol may be incorporated in the data transfer module and the data reception module . The data transfer module and the data reception module typically complement each other and are respectively included in the distributor and the portable computing device . As shown in the data transfer module and the data reception module include a data transfer transport layer and a data reception transport layer respectively. These two transport layers specify rules that enable the distributor to detect the presence of the portable computing device that is ready to receive an information transfer and that directs the subsequent information transfer from the distributor to the portable computing device . In addition these two transport layers may specify the structure content and or duration of frames or packets of information incorporated in signals sent and or received during information transfer. Additionally the data transfer module and the data reception module may include a data transfer physical layer and a data reception physical layer respectively. These two physical layers specify physical characteristics of signals sent and or received during information transfer which physical characteristics include for example modulation demodulation scheme encoding decoding scheme information transmission receiving rates and or signal power level. It should be recognized that one or both physical layers may be at least partly implemented by hardware such as for example by a modulator demodulator an encoder decoder and or a transceiver e.g. the transceiver system .

In an embodiment of the invention downloading of the client by the portable computing device may occur via the conventional communication protocol. The conventional communication protocol is incorporated in the conventional communication protocol modules shown in . The conventional communication protocol may include rules and operating procedures that direct communication between the distributor and the portable computing device during client download. As shown in the conventional communication protocol modules each include a conventional communication protocol physical layer . These two physical layers specify physical characteristics of signals sent and or received during downloading of the client which physical characteristics include for example modulation demodulation scheme encoding decoding scheme information transmission receiving rates and or signal power level. As an ordinary artisan will understand the conventional communication protocol modules typically include one or more additional layers not shown in such as for example a link layer or a transport layer. Also one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that one or both physical layers may be at least partly implemented by hardware such as for example by a modulator demodulator an encoder decoder and or a transceiver . In addition it should be recognized that the conventional communication protocol may also direct conventional communication between the portable computing device and any other device that includes a conventional communication protocol module .

With reference to the data transfer physical layer and data reception physical layer and the conventional communication protocol physical layer typically may specify one or more different physical characteristics for signals sent and or received. For instance a portable computing device may send a beam response using a first modulation encoding scheme specified by the conventional communication protocol physical layer and may send an ACK using a second modulation encoding scheme specified by the data reception physical layer . In this example the distributor may receive and process the beam response using a first demodulation decoding scheme that is complementary to the first modulation encoding scheme specified by the conventional communication protocol physical layer and may receive and process the ACK using a second demodulation decoding scheme that is complementary to the second modulation encoding scheme specified by the data transfer physical layer .

According to an embodiment of the invention the physical characteristics of a signal sent and or received during information transfer are at least partly specified and or implemented by the conventional communication protocol module physical layer . For instance the transceiver system may send a beacon and or a broadcast with encoding modulation and transmission rate characteristics specified by the conventional communication protocol physical layer but with a boosted base signal power level specified by the data transfer physical layer . In this embodiment the data transfer communication protocol is at least partly incorporated in the conventional communication protocol physical layers shown in .

It should be recognized that the distributor and or the portable computing device need not include two sets of communication hardware corresponding to the two physical layers shown in and or . In particular a single communication hardware may be configured by executable instructions to transmit and or receive signals with physical characteristics specified by the two physical layers.

The invention is further explained with reference to . illustrates a flow diagram of steps that may be executed by a distributor in accordance with a data transfer transport layer according to an embodiment of the invention. By way of overview the data transfer transport layer specifies how the distributor determines the presence of a portable computing device that is ready to receive an information transfer and how the distributor subsequently transfers information to the portable computing device . In an embodiment of the invention a distributor performs one of more cycles of the steps shown in before directing a transceiver system to send a beam interrogation .

With reference to the distributor sends a beacon step to which a portable computing device in the vicinity of the distributor may respond with the acknowledgment signal ACK . The distributor determines whether an ACK has been received from the portable computing device step . Reception of the ACK indicates that the portable computing device is within range of the distributor and is ready to receive an information transfer. Otherwise if an ACK is not received in accordance with step the distributor sleeps for a period of time step before sending another beacon step . In an embodiment of the invention in which the distributor is a wireless battery powered device inclusion of this sleep period enables the distributor to conserve its battery power. During the sleep period the distributor may inactivate at least a portion of the transceiver system associated with information transfer according to some embodiments of the invention.

In an embodiment of the invention the sleep period is a predetermined period of time such as for example 2 seconds. In an alternate embodiment of the invention the sleep period is variable in accordance with the frequency with which ACKs are received from one or more portable computing devices . An algorithm may be provided in the data transfer transport layer that automatically adjusts the sleep period in accordance with demand for information transfer from the distributor . For example an embodiment of the invention may lengthen the sleep period when the demand is low and or shorten the sleep period when the demand is high.

If an ACK is received in accordance with step the distributor instructs the transceiver system to send a broadcast that includes application s and or data to be transferred to the portable computing device step . If the broadcast is properly received the portable computing device responds with an ACK which may be detected by the transceiver system in step . Following detection of the ACK in step the distributor sleeps for the sleep period discussed above step before sending another beacon step . According to some embodiments of the invention a sleep period following detection of an ACK in step may be different from a sleep period when an ACK is not received according to step .

Otherwise if an ACK is not received in step following a broadcast the distributor may instruct the transceiver system to resend one or more additional broadcasts . In an embodiment of the invention the distributor determines whether two broadcasts have already been sent step . If one broadcast has been sent the distributor will resend the broadcast a second time. Following this second broadcast the distributor may determine whether an ACK is received for logging purposes step . In accordance with an alternate embodiment of the invention the distributor may skip step following a second broadcast and proceed directly to sleep according to step . If two broadcasts have already been sent the distributor in accordance with an embodiment of the invention will not resend an additional broadcast and will sleep for the sleep period step before sending another beacon step . It should be recognized that a portable computing device may send an ACK in response to this beacon to prompt another broadcast from the distributor . Also according to some embodiments of the invention a sleep period following a second broadcast may be different from a sleep period following detection of an ACK in step and or a sleep period when an ACK is not received according to step .

In an embodiment of the invention in which the distributor is a wireless battery powered device limiting the number of times the transceiver system resends a broadcast in response to a single ACK enables the distributor to conserve its battery power. Specifically an ACK may not be received following an initial or later broadcast for a variety of reasons. For example an obstacle may be located between the distributor and the portable computing device that interferes with reception of the broadcast and or ACK . As another example a user of the portable computing device may have decided to abort the information transfer before a complete broadcast has been received and or before an ACK may be sent by the portable computing device . In either of these two example situations resending further broadcasts would be futile and limiting the number of additional broadcasts helps conserve the distributor s battery power.

Following the time interval T the distributor activates the transceiver system . In particular the transceiver system is activated for a time interval Tto be ready to receive at least a portion of an ACK in response to the beacon . In the example illustrated in an ACK is not received and the distributor inactivates the transceiver system for a sleep period Tafter the time interval T. According to an embodiment of the invention the sleep period Tmay typically be around 1 s. Following the sleep period T the transceiver system is again activated to send another beacon of duration T.

Following reception of the ACK the distributor inactivates the transceiver system for a time interval Tbefore a broadcast is sent. The time interval Tmay account for a response or lag time of the portable computing device after it sends an ACK and prepares to receive a broadcast and or is not otherwise ready to begin receiving the broadcast according to an embodiment of the invention. Alternatively or in conjunction the time interval Tmay account for a response or lag time of the distributor according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver system is inactive during the time interval Tto conserve power in some embodiments of the invention especially in embodiments in which the distributor is a wireless battery powered device.

Following the time interval T the distributor activates the transceiver system to send a broadcast of duration T. In an embodiment of the invention the time interval Tdepends on the amount of information to be transferred to the portable computing device .

Following the time interval T the transceiver system is activated for a time interval Tto be ready to receive at least a portion of an ACK in response to the broadcast . In the situation illustrated in an ACK is not received and the distributor inactivates the transceiver system for the time interval discussed previously in connection with .

Following the time interval T the transceiver system is activated to resend a second broadcast of duration T. Subsequently the transceiver system is inactivated for the time interval Tbefore being activated again to be ready to receive at least a portion of an ACK in response to the second broadcast .

Following reception of the ACK the transceiver system is inactivated for the sleep period T after which the transceiver system is again activated to send another beacon of duration T.

Table 1 below indicates the various time intervals specified by a data transfer transport layer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Specifically the portable computing device receives an incoming signal step and evaluates the incoming signal to determine its signal type step . If the incoming signal is determined to be noise in step the portable computing device proceeds back to step .

On the other hand if the incoming signal is determined to be a beacon the portable computing device determines whether it should receive a broadcast step . In an embodiment of the invention the determining step is performed in accordance with information incorporated in the beacon . For instance the beacon may identify a broadcast and or include a timestamp for the broadcast and the portable computing device evaluates the beacon to determine whether it has already received the broadcast .

If a broadcast should not be received the portable computing device may proceed back to step according to some embodiments of the invention. Otherwise if a broadcast should be received the portable computing device determines whether it has already sent an ACK in response to a prior beacon step . If no the portable computing device responds to the beacon by sending an ACK to prompt a broadcast by the distributor step .

If a broadcast should be received and an ACK has already been sent in response to a prior beacon the portable computing device determines whether another ACK should be sent in accordance with a back off algorithm step . The back off algorithm is intended to deal with a situation where a plurality of portable computing devices receive a first beacon from a distributor and the plurality or a subset thereof of portable computing devices acknowledge the first beacon with ACKs . The ACKs from the portable computing devices may interfere with each other and the distributor may not properly receive an ACK from any one of the portable computing devices . Since a proper ACK is not received the distributor will sleep for a sleep period before sending a second beacon .

In an embodiment of the invention the back off algorithm specifies that a portable computing device will send an ACK in response to the second beacon with an independent probability of less than 100 such as for example 50 . For example if a first and a second portable computing devices each send an ACK in response to a first beacon and no broadcast is received each of the first and second portable computing devices will send another ACK is response to the second beacon with an independent probability of 50 . In this example there is a 50 probability that only one of the two portable computing devices will send an ACK which ACK will prompt a broadcast if received by the distributor . There is a 25 probability that neither of the portable computing devices will send an ACK and there is a 25 probability that both portable computing devices will send ACKs . In these two latter situations the distributor may not receive a proper ACK and will sleep for a sleep period before sending a third beacon . In an embodiment of the invention the back off algorithm may specify that a portable computing device will send an ACK in response to the third beacon with an independent probability of less than 100 such as for example 30 . In an embodiment of the invention the independent probability for a third attempt e.g. 30 is selected to be a smaller probability than the independent probability for a second attempt e.g. 50 . Alternatively or in conjunction an error message may be generated in response to receiving the third beacon and the back off algorithm may be reset so that a portable computing device will send an ACK with a 100 probability in response to a fourth beacon .

As shown in the portable computing device may determine that an incoming signal is a broadcast step . The portable computing device may have sent an ACK that prompted the broadcast . Alternatively another nearby portable computing device may have sent an ACK that prompted the broadcast . In either event the portable computing device receives the broadcast and determines whether the broadcast is free of errors step . If an error is detected the portable computing device will not send an ACK and will return to step to attempt to receive an error free broadcast . Alternatively or in conjunction with step the portable computing device may determine whether it has received a complete broadcast . In some embodiments of the invention a portable computing device determines whether a complete broadcast has been received from information incorporated in the broadcast . For example a broadcast may indicate a size of the broadcast . If a complete broadcast has not been received the portable computing device will not send an ACK and will return to step to attempt to receive a complete broadcast or a portion of the complete broadcast that has not yet been received.

On the other hand if no error is detected in the broadcast and or a complete broadcast has been received the portable computing device determines whether it sent an ACK that prompted the broadcast . If so the portable computing device will acknowledge receipt of the error free and or complete broadcast by sending an ACK to the distributor step . According to some embodiments of the invention the portable computing device may proceed back to step after sending the ACK . If the portable computing device did not prompt the broadcast it will not send an ACK and may proceed back to step according to some embodiments of the invention. In this latter situation a second portable computing device may have sent an ACK that prompted the broadcast and the second portable computing device will send an ACK following reception of an error free and or complete broadcast . It should be recognized that inclusion of step reduces the possibility of multiple portable computing devices responding to a broadcast by sending multiple ACKs that may interfere with one another. This in turn enhances the possibility that the distributor will receive a proper ACK following a broadcast so that the distributor will not be triggered into resending an additional broadcast .

In some alternate embodiments of the invention a portable computing device may send more than one type of acknowledgement signal. In one alternate embodiment of the invention a portable computing device may send a beacon ACK to respond to a beacon e.g. at step and may send a broadcast ACK to respond to a broadcast e.g. at step . In other alternate embodiments a portable computing device may send a variety of acknowledgement signals such as an ACK a partial ACK and or a NACK i.e. no acknowledgement signal. The partial ACK may for example acknowledge that the portable computing device has received a portion of a broadcast from the distributor . The partial ACK may save the distributor from having to transmit all of a given broadcast again which may accordingly reduce the consumption of power from the distributor s battery . The NACK signal could be used to inform the distributor that the portable computing device has not received an expected broadcast from the distributor and that the entire broadcast should be repeated. It should be recognized that a back off algorithm may be implemented in conjunction with sending a NACK and or a partial ACK to reduce the probability of multiple NACKs and or partial ACKs being sent by multiple portable computing devices . In addition it should be recognized that a multiplicity of types of acknowledgement signals may provide a mechanism for informing the distributor that environmental conditions for broadcast transmissions have deteriorated that the transceiver system is not operating properly and or that the transmission mechanisms e.g. the transceiver on one or more portable computing devices are not operating properly. Once informed of an anomalous condition the distributor may attempt a number of remedial actions.

Table 2 below indicates the various time intervals specified by a data reception transport layer in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

The data portion may include a broadcast ID that allows the portable computing device to identify a signal incorporating the broadcast frame as a broadcast . While shows the broadcast ID included in the data portion it should be recognized that the broadcast ID may be alternatively included in the preamble . In some embodiments of the invention the broadcast ID may indicate a size of the broadcast frame and or a size of the data portion so that a portable computing device may determine whether it has received a complete broadcast. In addition the data portion includes information to be transferred to a portable computing device . The information in the data portion may include application s e.g. the applications and or data e.g. the data .

As shown in the broadcast frame may also include error detection data such as for example a parity check code a checksum or a cyclic redundancy check CRC that enables a portable computing device to detect errors. While shows the error detection data included at the end of the broadcast frame it should be recognized that the error detection data may be alternatively included in one or more places in the preamble and or data portion .

Alternatively or in conjunction with the above each broadcast sub frame may include information to be transferred to a portable computing device of a particular capability such as of example a particular platform type e.g. WinCE or to a portable computing device that has downloaded a particular version of a client . For example a first data portion may include information targeted for a portable computing device that has downloaded a first version of a client and a second data portion may be targeted for a portable computing device that has downloaded a second version of a client .

As shown in each broadcast sub frame may include a respective broadcast sub frame ID . A broadcast sub frame ID may allow the portable computing device to identify a signal incorporating a broadcast sub frame as a portion of a broadcast . Alternatively or in conjunction a broadcast sub frame ID may identify the type of information included in the associated broadcast sub frame . For example a broadcast sub frame ID may indicate that the associated broadcast sub frame includes non executable data for a particular application to be executed in a portable computing device . As another example a broadcast sub frame ID may indicate that the associated broadcast sub frame includes information targeted for a given version of a client . Alternatively or in conjunction with the above a broadcast sub frame ID may indicate an overall size of the broadcast frame a size of the associated broadcast sub frame and or a size of the associated data portion so that a portable computing device may determine whether it has received a complete broadcast or a complete portion of the broadcast . While shows the broadcast sub frame IDs included in respective data portions it should be recognized that a broadcast sub frame ID may be alternatively included in a preamble of a respective broadcast sub frame .

With reference to a broadcast ID may allow the portable computing device to identify a signal incorporating the broadcast frame as a broadcast . Alternatively or in conjunction a broadcast ID may identify the type of information following the broadcast ID . Alternatively or in conjunction with the above a broadcast ID may indicate an overall size of the broadcast frame a size of the data portion and or a size of the data portion following the broadcast ID so that a portable computing device may determine whether it has received a complete broadcast or a complete portion of the broadcast .

It should be recognized that various choices for the structure content and or duration of the beacon frame the ACK frame and the broadcast frames or may be selected in accordance with factors such as for example 1 power conservation for the distributor and 2 whether communication between the distributor and the portable computing device is synchronous or asynchronous. Typically the length of a frame may be chosen to be as small as practicable to conserve power of the distributor while conveying sufficient information as discussed above. Also as one of ordinary skill in the art will understand a frame in an asynchronous type of communication may include one or more sets of 8 bits each set being bracketed by a start bit and a stop bit. A set of 8 bits may represent an ASCII character for example. In addition proper reception of an ACK by a distributor s transceiver system may be improved if an ACK frame contains on average similar numbers of binary 1 and binary 0 . Hence in an embodiment of the invention bit stuffing may be employed to insert a binary 1 or 0 after a contiguous sequence of binary 0 or binary 1 respectively.

In an embodiment of the invention a beacon an ACK and a broadcast are signals that incorporate a respective frame as discussed above. Embodiments of the invention may select different physical characteristics for the signals for a beacon an ACK and or a broadcast guided by factors such as for example 

According to an embodiment of the invention a beacon is an IR signal that incorporates a beacon frame as for example shown in . In one embodiment of the invention a distributor s transceiver system generates a beacon with physical characteristics specified by a conventional communication protocol physical layer e.g. the conventional communication protocol physical layer . According to some embodiments of the invention the conventional communication protocol physical layer may include a physical layer of a conventional IR communication protocol such as for example Infrared Data Association IrDA communication protocol. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand the IrDA physical layer specifies the physical characteristics of an IR signal including a modulation scheme an encoding scheme and an information transmission rate to be used when generating an IR signal. The IrDA physical layer specifies different physical characteristics for IR signals sent at different information transmission rates measured in bits per second bps . In particular one embodiment of the invention transmits a beacon at a transmission rate of 115.2 kbps. At 115.2 kbps the beacon is generated using a RZI encoding scheme with an unmodulated IR pulse being sent for 3 16 of a bit duration for a binary 0 and no IR pulse being sent for a binary 1 .

In an embodiment of the invention the distributor s transceiver system generates a beacon in accordance with an encoding scheme modulation scheme and information transmission rate specified by a physical layer of a conventional IR communication protocol such as for example the IrDA physical layer but with a boosted base signal power level specified by a data transfer physical layer . This boosted transmit power enables a portable computing device to receive a beacon at a greater distance from a distributor than would otherwise be possible using a conventional IrDA communication protocol and with the portable computing device s transceiver .

According to an embodiment of the invention an ACK is an IR signal that incorporates an ACK frame as for example shown in . In one embodiment of the invention a portable computing device generates an ACK in accordance with physical characteristics used in conventional IR remote controls such as for example a conventional TV remote control. In this embodiment a portable computing device directs the transceiver to transmit an ACK at a transmission rate of 1200 bps. The ACK is generated using a NRZ encoding scheme with no parity and with a 37.5 kilohertz kHz ASK modulation scheme wherein a 37.5 kHz IR tone is generated for a binary 0 and an IR tone is not sent for a binary 1 . These physical characteristics of the ACK enable a distributor s transceiver system to properly receive an ACK sent from a greater distance by the transceiver of the portable computing device . In particular the 37.5 kHz ASK modulation enables the receiver of the distributor to filter out noise by employing a bandpass filter centered around 37.5 kHz. The relatively slow transmission rate also enables the distributor to more easily resolve information incorporated in an ACK .

According to some embodiments of the invention the preamble incorporated in the ACK may comprise two portions a first portion including a 37.5 kHz IR tone and a second portion being idle no IR transmission . According to an embodiment of the invention the duration of the first portion may be 29 ms and the duration of the second portion may be 11 ms. According to an embodiment of the invention a bit duration of a bit included in the data portion may be 833.3 p.s to reduce bit timing errors and or to enhance reliability of the ACK transmission.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention a portable computing device generates a 37.5 kHz ASK modulated ACK in accordance with a data reception physical layer that has been previously downloaded. It should be recognized that hardware modifications to a portable computing device need not be made in order for a 37.5 kHz ASK modulated signal to be transmitted. For instance a portable computing device may include hardware capable of transmitting signals with various encoding and or modulation and or transmission rate characteristics and the data reception physical layer may include executable instructions to configure the hardware to generate the 37.5 kHz ASK modulated ACK .

According to an embodiment of the invention a broadcast is an IR signal that incorporates a broadcast frame or as for example shown in . In one embodiment of the invention a broadcast is generated with physical characteristics specified by a conventional communication protocol physical layer e.g. the conventional communication protocol physical layer . According to some embodiments of the invention the conventional communication protocol physical layer includes a physical layer of a conventional IR communication protocol such as for example the IrDA communication protocol. One embodiment of the invention transmits a broadcast at a transmission rate of 115.2 kbps. At 115.2 kbps the broadcast is generated using a RZI encoding scheme with an unmodulated IR pulse being sent for 3 16 of a bit duration for a binary 0 and no IR pulse being sent for a binary 1 .

In an embodiment of the invention a distributor s transceiver system generates a broadcast in accordance with an encoding scheme a modulation scheme and information transmission rate specified by a physical layer of a conventional IR communication protocol such as for example the IrDA physical layer but with a boosted base signal power level specified by a data transfer physical layer . This boosted transmit power enables a portable computing device to receive a broadcast at a greater distance from a distributor than would otherwise be possible using the conventional IrDA communication protocol and with the portable computing device s conventional transceiver .

In alternate embodiments of the invention a beacon an ACK and a broadcast are RF signals that incorporate a beacon frame an ACK frame and a broadcast frame or respectively as for example shown in . In one embodiment of the invention each signal is generated in accordance with a physical layer of a conventional RF communication protocol such as for example a Bluetooth communication protocol. As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand the Bluetooth communication protocol defines two power levels a lower power level that can cover shorter communication ranges and a higher power level that can cover medium communication ranges. Embodiments of the invention may utilize either or a combination of the two power levels depending on the desired communication range between a distributor and a portable computing device .

The battery may be contained within the distributor housing according to an embodiment of the invention. The battery may not necessarily be rechargeable. The battery may be selected based upon a two year operational life according to an embodiment of the invention. Extended battery life may be further facilitated by designing the distributor to support low current and power down modes for as much of its circuitry as possible according to an embodiment of the invention.

Distributor usage and current consumption models indicate that a battery capacity of over 36 Ahr may be required to ensure a battery life of 2 years for the battery according to an embodiment of the invention. To address this requirement as well as long shelf life multi cell lithium technology may be required. For example a 2 cell lithium thionyl chloride battery pack may be sufficient according to an embodiment of the invention. Thus the battery may comprise a lithium battery pack that provides a nominal voltage of 3.5 to 3.6 volts according to an embodiment of the invention.

According to an embodiment of the invention the output of the battery may be connected directly to a regulator on a daughterboard that in turn supplies power to a motherboard. Specifically an embodiment of the invention may employ a Scout Modo motherboard designed to be powered by 2 alkaline cells. Accordingly additional batteries associated with a daughterboard may provide power centered at 2.5 volts. Power supply circuits on the Modo motherboard may support all requirements for Modo circuits as well as provide 3 volt power back to the daughterboard.

The ability to conserve battery power on the distributor may be crucial for the commercial acceptance of the distributor in some deployment environments. The longer that the distributor s battery can last without being replaced or recharged then the longer the distributor can operate without necessity for being visited by a repair person and being opened. Long battery life may simplify the process of providing distributors over a wide geographic area since the distributors may receive communications from the system communication network and the distributors need not necessarily have any physical connection to their locality. Of course in some embodiments of the invention the battery may be replaced or supplemented by an electrical power supply.

A check is performed to see if the transceiver system e.g. the transceiver system is in use step . According to an embodiment of the invention the transceiver system may be switched between an active mode with increased power consumption and a sleep or power down mode with reduced power consumption. If the transceiver system is in use step then the battery continues to be engaged while the transceiver system operations complete step . Transmissions of beacons and broadcasts reception of ACKs and sleep periods may be interleaved in a manner to support power conservation according to an embodiment of the invention. For example the beacon acknowledgment procedure may occupy two 5 second slots with broadcasting occurring on a requested basis. Broadcasts may repeat continuously for a given time period or may repeat on request e.g. via an ACK . To reduce battery consumption both schemes may typically require that broadcasts terminate when no portable computing devices are in range of receiving a broadcast and or there are no such portable computing devices providing an indication that they would like to receive a broadcast .

If the transceiver system is not in use step then a check is performed to determine if a scheduled network communication e.g. via the system communication network is imminent step . If a scheduled transmission reception is imminent step then the battery remains powered while the network receiver e.g. the network receiver receives the transmission step . According to an embodiment of the invention the network receiver may be switched between an active mode with increased power consumption and a sleep or power down mode with reduced power consumption. As previously discussed the distributor may receive information on a scheduled basis from the system communication network . Scheduling transmissions may allow the distributor to keep its network receiver e.g. a Flex receiver powered down until the time designated for the next scheduling message or Groupcast. Accordingly the maximum number of daily communications may need to be limited to ensure best battery life. As previously discussed the schedules may be configurable on a per distributor basis.

If no transmission reception is imminent step then the distributor may enter into a sleep mode which reduces consumption of power from the battery step . A check is periodically performed to monitor the presence of portable computing devices step . The monitoring step may be performed in conjunction by sending a beacon transmitted by the transceiver system . In an embodiment of the invention the distributor periodically wakes up or operates in a reduced power mode to perform the monitoring step . As discussed herein with regard to the data transfer communication protocol even during a transmitting or receiving operation portions of the distributor e.g. the transceiver system may be turned off. If a portable computing device responds to the beacon then the distributor may need to wake up or remain awake and begin additional transceiver system operations. Of course the distributor may remain awake and avoid entry into the sleep mode at least temporarily in order to perform routine maintenance or reconfiguration tasks. In addition a distributor having an independent power source may not need to enter into a sleep cycle as frequently or at all as a distributor having only a battery power source.

If no portable computing devices are present e.g. no portable computing device responds to the beacon step then a check is performed to determine if a scheduled transmission to the distributor from the system communication network is imminent step . If a transmission is imminent then the distributor may need to wake up and begin network receiver operations. If no transmission is imminent then the distributor may remain in the sleep mode.

In an alternative embodiment the distributor s battery could be supplemented or even replaced by another power source. For example the distributor could include a conventional external power adapter. Alternatively the distributor could be configured to receive electrical power by an induction device. An induction device embodiment would still be supportive of the distributor s general goals of ease of deployment. When the external power adapter is used the external supply may disconnect the battery according to an embodiment of the invention. When an external power source is present the battery may recharged according to an embodiment of the invention. When the external supply is engaged additional power hungry functions on the distributor may be supported according to an embodiment of the invention. In addition maintenance of low power and power down modes may be ignored when the external power supply is present e.g. a sleep cycle may not be engaged. It should be recognized that embodiments of the distributor powered by an external power supply may repeatedly send broadcasts for a given time interval of a given day which broadcasts need not be prompted by a portable computing device .

A switch may be incorporated in the distributor s housing and electronics to disconnect the battery during shipment. The switch may also be used as a reset switch if an event occurs that locks up the operation of distributor s software.

The distributor may comprise pre existing electronic assemblies developed for other computing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. For example illustrates an embodiment of the distributor that employs a Scout Electromedia Modo motherboard augmented with a daughterboard connected to the motherboard by connections . The motherboard provides distributor functions such as a CPU e.g. the CPU shown in and a Flex paging receiver and related paging subsystems e.g. the network receiver . The daughterboard provides distributor functionality such as power supply regulation and IR transmitters receivers and user interface functions . The distributor battery may comprise 3.6V Lithium batteries in this embodiment of the invention. As previously discussed embodiments of the distributor may also reuse software from pre existing systems such as software for the Scout Modo devices.

As shown in the Scout Electromedia Modo motherboard may provide a Flex paging receiver and processing devices according to an embodiment of the invention. The processing devices may provide among other things a CPU e.g. the CPU RAM e.g. the RAM memory e.g. the memory and support for the network receiver for an embodiment of the distributor .

Specifically the Scout Electromedia Modo motherboard may comprise a microprocessor a 128 8 Serial EEPROM having an IC interface a 1 M 16 Flash EPROM ROM a 1 M 16 DRAM having 1 K refresh fast page mode or better power supply circuits and a FLEX decoder . The power supply circuits may be configured for both the processing devices and the receiver . The FLEX decoder may process Flex packets from the receiver . The microprocessor may be a Motorola MC68EZ328 DragonBall EZ Controller.

The Flex paging receiver and the FLEX decoder may comprise the network receiver according to an embodiment of the invention. The Flex paging receiver may be a 900 MHz FLEX paging receiver according to an embodiment of the invention. It should be recognized that other conventional paging receivers may be used as the Flex paging receiver . The Flex paging receiver may comprise a PCB mounted antenna a variable gain low noise amplifier LNA front end to support automatic gain control AGC a programmable 900 MHz synthesizer for receiving Flex paging frequencies a 21.4 MHz first intermediate frequency IF stage a single back end chip a mixer to generate 455 kHz second IF from 21.4 MHz first IF a received signal strength indication RSSI voltage output for AGC a 455 kHz IF limiter output for the FLEX decoder and a power on off control to minimize current during sleep periods. An ordinary artisan may choose to review the specifications for Motorola Flex radio receivers to confirm that embodiments of the distributor satisfies the requirements for such systems where necessary.

The Modo motherboard may comprise a single printed circuit assembly PCA . External connections from the Modo PCA may comprise a two wire serial port I O lines for IR communications and UI control as well as 2.5V input and 3V output power connections. Additional information about the Modo electrical assembly e.g. the motherboard may be found in the Modo Detailed Circuit Description Scout Electromedia part no. 12223 1920 which is incorporated by reference herein. An ordinary artisan will recognize that a number of functions supported by the pre existing Modo PCA may not be required in the distributor and may be removed especially if removal either decreases power consumption or increases product reliability.

Thus by using pre existing systems completion of the electronics for an embodiment of the distributor may require addition of merely a few additional subsystems such as the transceiver system e.g. the transceiver system and power supply circuitry. Additional functionality may be provided on the daughterboard connected to the motherboard according to an embodiment of the invention. Depending on the housing design and available internal space the batteries may be mounted directly to the daughterboard according to an embodiment of the invention. Alternatively the batteries may be mounted elsewhere and connected to the daughterboard .

The Modo s DragonBall processor shown in may comprise only a single universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART . Accordingly the daughterboard may need to share the UART with its serial devices e.g. the CMOS RS 232 interface the IrDA transceiver the high power IR transmitters and the 38 kHz ASK receiver . Thus the interface logic may multiplex the serial devices using control signals from the motherboard .

The IrDA transceiver may support normal IrDA two way communications e.g. for downloading the client and in conjunction with the high power IR transmitters long range IR transmissions for beacons and broadcasts . The IrDA transceiver may provide the transceiver shown in and according to an embodiment of the invention. Likewise the high power IR transmitters may provide the high power transmitter shown in . The IrDA transceiver s output power may be set to high power full transmission range or low power standard IrDA range by control signals from the Modo motherboard .

Additional IR transmitter LEDs may be provided to extend the range and beam width of the beacons and broadcasts . For example two additional LEDs may be provided to the IrDA transceiver . These thirty degree 15 degree half power point LEDs may be mounted at 21 degree angles from center. The LEDs may produce a combined half power point beam width of 60 degrees 30 degrees while maintaining a zero degree range of up to 15 feet according to an embodiment of the invention. It should be recognized that extending the beam width may facilitate sending a signal to a plurality of portable computing devices and or to a portable computing device located off center relative to the distributor .

The discrete 38 kHz ASK IR receiver may be provided to support receipt of TV remote type signals according to an embodiment of the invention. This may allow the distributor to receive ACKs from the portable computing devices after transmissions of beacons or broadcasts . A bandpass filter not shown may be provided to focus the receiver on the 38 kHz range according to some embodiments of the invention. According to some embodiments of the invention the receiver may include a pin diode not shown that is tuned to a wavelength or a range of wavelengths associated with the IR signals e.g. 880 nm . One embodiment of the invention employs a conventional pin diode e.g. Optec OP950 . The receiver may provide the receiver shown in and according to an embodiment of the invention.

The Modo motherboard and the daughterboard may be connected via the connection as shown in . The connection may comprise a flex circuit and four wires that route control lines LED signals and 3 V power via the Modo assembly s LCD connector according to an embodiment of the invention. The functionality of I O lines originally used to communicate to the Modo LCD may be changed via software to support the requirements of the daughterboard . An identical flex connector may be placed on the daughterboard to allow use of a straight through conductor flex circuit according to an embodiment of the invention. Two of the four wires for connecting the two boards may route 2.5V power from the daughterboard to the Modo motherboard . The remaining two wires may support a serial connection for transferring data through the daughterboard s IR transmitters and receivers and as well as the internal two wire RS 232 port . All four wires may be soldered directly to points on the Modo motherboard and connection points on the daughterboard .

In addition to the interconnections with the Modo motherboard the daughterboard may also support external connections for serial communications and power input e.g. the batteries and or an AC adapter . A two pin header may be provided for a two wire external serial port. This port may be supported as an alternative communications mechanism to that of the IR transceiver for engineering and manufacturing purposes. This port may not be accessible once the assembly is mounted in the distributor housing. RS 232 Tx and Rx signals may be supported at CMOS levels. Battery power may be provided directly to the daughterboard via a two pin socket.

The distributor s industrial design may need to address factors such as unit size simplicity of use multiple placement capabilities and visibility. Embodiments of the distributor may have a two dimensional frontpiece footprint of approximately 25 sq. in. This relatively small size may allow the distributor to be more easily integrated into its deployment environment e.g. in conjunction with an advertising display.

As shown in embodiments of the distributor may be wall mounted or table mounted. A distributor housing may be designed to allow mounting to a vertical wall via an attachment and or placement on a flat surface. Wall mounting may require that an IR window face outward from the distributor s largest face. Desktop mounting may require the use of a desktop mount e.g. a bracket in which to hold the distributor . The desktop mount may position the distributor so that the IR window is perpendicular to the desk surface and pointed in a likely direction of use e.g. the direction from which most users will likely approach the distributor .

The distributor s desktop mount may also include expansion ports and connections . In this embodiment the distributor s expansion port could connect electrically to the desktop mount in a similar manner to that of a laptop port replicator. The connection could provide a connection to an electronic network . Similarly the connection could provide the distributor with access to a power supply.

The distributor s housing may include all electrical components and batteries. Since the distributor may be deployed outside the housing should generally use a material suitable for an outdoors environment. The housing may be made from a non metallic material. For example embodiments of the distributor may use a tooled plastic housing or an aluminum housing. A non metallic material may provide better operations if the distributor also includes an internal antenna e.g. an internal paging antenna. In some embodiments an external antenna may be mounted to the outside of the housing and integrated into the distributor s overall industrial design. The distributor s housing may conceivably be made from almost any material although a tamper resistant design may be better suited for many deployment environments.

The use of pre existing hardware in various embodiments of the distributor may affect the housing s shape and the distributor s mechanical mounting requirements. For example an embodiment of the distributor may use existing Scout Electromedia Modo electronics with additional circuitry incorporated in an attached daughterboard . Likewise an embodiment of the distributor may use an existing Motorola Creatalink paging module. The use of pre existing equipment such as those described above may compel additional design considerations as an ordinary artisan will recognize.

The distributor housing may need to provide space for various information. For example the housing may include Product information such as a company logo product name serial number and instructions or operational notes manufacturing information such as bar coding and manufacturing location battery disposal information and regulatory information such as a conventional FCC Class B text. Labeling may be placed in a visible location on the housing for unpacking and handling of the distributor but such labeling may not necessarily need to be visible once the distributor is operating mounted.

A status indicator may use a visual mechanism such an LED or a LCD to provide status information. The status indicator may provide operational status information such as Power on System communication network coverage and Low battery. Support for the status indicator may be provided via software e.g. the administration server so that status functions can be easily changed or additional functions added in the future. The distributor may further include a battery disconnect and reset switch for an internal battery power source e.g. the battery .

The distributor may be intended for use in both indoor and outdoor environments. Since embodiments of the distributor may employ components having limited operational temperature range care should be taken to protect the distributor and or deploy the distributor primarily in indoor environments. Embodiments of the distributor may have an indoor temperature range of 10 to 50 C. and an outdoor temperature range of 40 to 85 C.

As an ordinary artisan will recognize the distributor may also need to be developed to account for factors such as drop shock vibration humidity water and dust. In addition regulatory requirements necessary for operation in various locations must also be considered and satisfied.

The distributor may use the electronic network connection in place of or in addition to communications provided by the network receiver . For example the distributor could use the electronic network connection to provide a back channel that would allow information received from portable computing devices to be passed back to the structuring system or even to a larger audience e.g. throughout the Internet . Likewise the distributor could also use the electronic network connection as a means of passing status information back to the structuring system or a maintenance facility . Of course the electronic network connection could also be used as a means for downloading information into the distributor . The expansion port s external physical connections may take the form of standard RS 232 Universal Serial Bus USB or Ethernet according to an embodiment of the invention. Some embodiments of the invention may require a dial up modem not shown .

The distributor may also support a connection for externally receiving power. For example a plug in transformer with a DC distributor may be coupled to the distributor via the connection according to an embodiment of the invention.

As shown in an expansion port could allow the distributor to operate peripheral equipment according to an embodiment of the invention. For example the expansion port may enable the distributor to provide coding and programming for an adjoining display via a connection to a display data port . The expansion port could also support other peripheral equipment such as for example additional IR transmitters wide area wireless communication devices and or industrial equipment e.g. robotic devices . According to an embodiment of the invention the expansion port may be used to download information e.g. the client to a portable computing device via a conventional wired communication protocol.

The expansion ports and connections and could be integrated into the distributor in such a manner that wiring may be easily attached without being overly conspicuous. All connections and wiring may be positively retained to minimize inadvertent disconnections according to an embodiment of the invention.

The message addressing format used by the bulletin board server could be such that any portable computing device could download posted messages from the distributor and or the message addressing format could have some addressing capability and or privacy mechanism that allows only a particular addressee s to view message s e.g. in a manner similar to that of conventional e mail systems .

If the distributor includes a back channel transmitter then the portable computing devices may even prepare and transmit messages through the electronic network connection according to an embodiment of the invention. The back channel transmitter need not necessarily be a wireless transmission device but may simply comprise the functionality necessary for communicating across the electronic network connection e.g. the Internet . Thus the back channel transmitter may include a dialup modem in some embodiments of the invention.

For example a user of the portable computing device may engage the message producer to prepare a message that is transmitted to the transceiver via a connection . The message may have a small size limit in some embodiments of the invention. The connection may represent the normal communication channel used by the client for example. The transceiver then transmits the message to the distributor s transceiver system on a connection . The connection may represent an ACK or another signal format recognizable by the transceiver system e.g. IrDA . The transceiver system then transmits the message on a connection to the bulletin board server . The connection may represent the normal communication channel used by the transceiver system to communicate with elements of the distributor .

The message may remain in the bulletin board server or a memory accessible to the bulletin board server until the bulletin board server receives a message request from a portable computing device . For example a portable computing device may include a message reader . The message reader may be included in the client or could be a pre existing message reading facility already included in the portable computing device e.g. Microsoft Outlook according to embodiments of the invention. The message reader sends a message request to the transceiver on a connection . The connection could represent the normal communication channel used by the client to communicate with the transceiver according to an embodiment of the invention. The transceiver sends the message request to the transceiver system on a connection . The connection may represent an ACK or another signal format e.g. IrDA recognizable by the transceiver system . The transceiver system sends the message request to the bulletin board server on a connection . The connection may represent the normal communication channel used by the transceiver system to communicate with elements of the distributor .

The bulletin board server receives the message request and determines if there are any messages suitable for transmission to the portable computing device . As discussed above embodiments of the invention may allow users to read a large subset of all downloaded messages e.g. all messages while other embodiments may allow users to read only those messages specifically addressed to them. In any event the bulletin board server determines whether there are any messages to transmit and prepares and sends a response on a connection to the transceiver system . The connection may represent the normal communication channel by which elements of the distributor communicate with the transceiver system . The response may include the message s to be reviewed. The transceiver system sends the response on a connection to the portable computing device s transceiver . The connection may include the various communications protocols available to the transceiver system such as IrDA and or the data transfer communication protocol disclosed herein. The transceiver sends the response to the message reader on a connection . The connection may represent the normal communication channel by which the transceiver communicates with elements of the portable computing device . The portable computing device user may now review the message request response. If the response does not include the message s available to the portable computing device then the user may instruct the message reader to obtain the available message s using a similar procedure.

In an alternative embodiment the bulletin board server and or the message reader may be configured to operate automatically and not require explicit user queries actions to request messages e.g. in the manner of a conventional e mail system. Thus in such an embodiment a message could be sent from one portable computing device and received automatically in another portable computing device via the bulletin board server without requiring explicit user retrieval operations.

Depending on the message s address and or on whether a particular embodiment of the invention supports the back channel transmitter the bulletin board server may transmit the message on a connection to the back channel transmitter . The connection may represent the bulletin board server s normal communication channel for communicating with other elements of the distributor . The back channel transmitter may then transmit the message over the electronic network connection to another destination along the electronic network. In some embodiments of the invention the back channel transmitter may receive messages from across the electronic network connection and provide them to the bulletin board server . Such messages may then be provided to one or more portable computing devices according to embodiments of the invention.

Operations of the back channel transmitter may include services other than e mail delivery according to embodiments of the invention. The portable computing devices may provide information of all sorts to the distributor for transmission via the back channel transmitter across the electronic network connection to other computing systems. For example a user operating an application being executed by the RAS may select an action that causes information e.g. data to be sent to the distributor for retransmission to another computing system via the back channel transmitter . Thus the back channel transmitter may provide a means for users to communicate with other computing systems and even perform transactions including purchases of goods and services access to corporate database retrieval of other applications etc. The transmission of information to the distributor from the portable computing device would typically be conducted by adding the information to one or more ACKs according to an embodiment of the invention.

The distributor may maintain usage statistics and diagnostic information that will be accessible to local administrators e.g. using the portable computing device shown in . In addition to support data collection and configuration abilities as well as production manufacturing test requirements the distributor may include a mechanism to place itself into a test mode. This mode may support reprogramming of the distributor s flash memory and support a simple command line interface using the IrDA link e.g. the connection according to an embodiment of the invention. Again a portable computing device using the administration and diagnostic software program may be used to communicate with the distributor and provide reprogramming and diagnostic test services.

The distributor s administration server may also allow the system communication network to adjust the distributor s configuration parameters and update firmware. Local administrators may also conduct these operations and others that require interactive access according to an embodiment of the invention.

The distribution network s design may need to account for the variety of possible portable computing devices by taking a lowest common denominator design approach which allows a greater number of portable computing devices to communicate with the distributor but may not necessarily use all possible capabilities to their fullest. Of course an ordinary artisan will recognize that sometimes older portable computing devices may no longer be supported in order for the overall system to provide greater services to other more modern portable computing devices . For example a greater communication distance could possibly be supported by the distributor by taking advantage of the improved communications abilities in some portable computing devices e.g. some models of Palm Pilots provide better communications capabilities than other models of Palm Pilots.

While an embodiment of the distributor may support only a single type of portable computing devices e.g. PalmOS devices the distribution network may generally be expanded to support multiple types of portable computing devices . An ordinary artisan will recognize that expanding the system to support additional portable computing devices may in some instances compel modifications to the protocols described herein. In addition modifications may need to be made to various client components in order for them to function properly on multiple types of portable computing devices . In an embodiment of the invention in which the distributor supports multiple types of portable computing devices the transceiver system may be used to identify a portable computing device s type from the ACK and or beam response .

Embodiments of the invention may further include a help system including a wizard that provides assistance to users as well as technical staff responsible for configuring the distribution network and its various components.

In addition embodiments of the invention further relate to computer storage products with a computer readable medium having computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The media and computer code may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those of ordinary skill in the computer software arts. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical media such as floptical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer code include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be understood by ordinary artisans that changes in the form and details of the disclosed embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. For example embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to the object oriented Java programming language and development tools. It will be understood however that the principles of the present invention may be embodied using a variety of other software paradigms including for example other object oriented programming languages and tools. Moreover merely because specific embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to communications over the Internet and or the World Wide Web does not restrict the scope of the invention to such implementations. On the contrary the scope of the invention encompasses a much broader interpretation of electronic networks including for example local area and wide area networks.

Embodiments of the invention using a wireless voice and or data electronic network may be developed for operation with any acceptable wireless format as an ordinary artisan will recognize. For example embodiments of the invention may be compatible with communications transmitted in accordance with the Short Messaging Service SMS and the Wireless Application Protocol WAP specifications and standards such as HDML WML CDPD CDMA and GSM.

In describing various embodiments of the invention reference has been made to various hardware configurations communication protocols and software architectures. It will be understood however that the present invention is much more widely applicable than the specific embodiments described herein. That is the architecture of the present invention is not necessarily protocol or media specific and may be adapted to any protocol or any kind of media. In particular various software architectures including for example a Java implementation may be employed to implement the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention described herein may operate in conjunction with and or make use of various other hardware and software components. For example an embodiment of the invention has been described as using Scout Modo electronics. Various possibly related components are disclosed in the following commonly owned applications 

 Computing Device Housing U.S. Design Pat. No. D466 896 filed on Apr. 11 2001 in the name of Peikwen Cheng the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Methods of Commerce Using Intelligent Objects U.S. Application No. 60 116 520 filed Jan. 20 1999 in the names of William R. Cockayne and Nathan G. Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Mobile Communication Device for Electronic Commerce U.S. application Ser. No. 09 518 752 filed Mar. 3 2000 in the names of William R. Cockayne and Nathan G. Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Methods of Commerce Using Intelligent Objects U.S. application Ser. No. 09 487 741 filed Jan. 19 2000 in the names of Daniel S. Bomze William R. Cockayne Nathan G. Schmidt and Geoffrey Pitfield the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Methods of Electronic Commerce Using Intelligent Objects U.S. Application No. 60 123 307 filed Mar. 5 1999 in the names of William Cockayne and Nathan Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 More Methods of Electronic Commerce Using Intelligent Objects U.S. application Ser. No. 09 518 915 filed Mar. 3 2000 in the names of William R. Cockayne and Nathan G. Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Mobile Communication Method Computer Code for Electronic Commerce U.S. application Ser. No. 09 350 769 filed Jul. 9 1999 in the names of William R. Bomze William R. Cockayne Nathan G. Schmidt and Geoffrey Pitfield the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Mobile Communication System Computer Code for Electronic Commerce U.S. application Ser. No. 09 351 410 filed Jul. 9 1999 in the names of William R. Cockayne Stephen K. Orens Christopher G. Cotton David E. Weekly Nathan G. Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Mobile Communication Device for Electronic Commerce U.S. application Ser. No. 09 351 409 filed Jul. 9 1999 in the names of Daniel S. Bornze William R. Cockayne Nathan G. Schmidt and Geoffrey C. Pitfield the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Mobile Communication Device U.S. Application No. 60 228 017 filed Aug. 24 2000 in the names of William R. Cockayne Daniel S. Bomze Nathan G. Schmidt and Geoffrey Pitfield the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Two way Radio for Mobile Communication Device for Electronic Commerce U.S. Application No. 60 228 604 filed Aug. 28 2000 in the name of William R. Cockayne the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Additional Mobile Communication Methods for Electronic Commerce U.S. Application No. 60 142 738 filed Jul. 8 1999 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

 Additional Mobile Communication Methods For Electronic Commerce U.S. application Ser. No. 09 612 464 filed Jul. 7 2000 in the names of William R. Cockayne Stephen K. Orens and Nathan G. Schmidt the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by this reference.

The distribution network along with its related subsystems and functions may be written for operation on any computer operating system and for operation in any computing environment. In addition the various software employed in the distribution network may be designed using CORBA COM ACTIVEX controls and or Java. Similarly Java applets may provide a plug in client mechanism for use with another application on both a single computer and in a networked embodiment.

Displays provided to users of the components of the distribution network may be displayed using any application user interface techniques such as the what you see is what you get WYSIWYG display paradigm. One of ordinary skill in the art may easily recognize numerous alternate approaches to providing a user interface to receive the information needed to support a user s communications with the distribution network .

In embodiments of the invention software associated with the distribution network may use Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS Dynamic Hypertext Mark Up Language DHTML documents Extensible Mark Up Language XML documents and or other similar formats. Client elements associated with the invention may use protocols such as SNMP TCP IP and UDP IP in order to send instructions and otherwise communicate with various other components of the distribution network . The various components of the distribution network may operate with protocols and languages in addition to those specifically disclosed herein. Similarly the distribution network may be developed using an object oriented programming methodology or using any other programming methodology that results in a computing system having equivalent functionality.

Embodiments of the invention have been discussed in terms of computer programs but is equally applicable for systems utilizing hardware that performs similar functions such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

An ordinary artisan should require no additional explanation in developing the methods and systems described herein but may nevertheless find some possibly helpful guidance in the preparation of these methods and systems by examining standard reference works in the relevant art.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all methods and systems that operate under the claims set forth herein below. Accordingly the invention is not limited by the disclosure but instead its scope is to be determined entirely by the following claims.

