---

title: Systems and methods for managing alarms from recorders
abstract: Systems and methods for managing alarms from recorders are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of: receiving alarm alerts from one or more recorders by a central application module, the alarm alerts being operative to notify a user of a problem associated with the one or more recorders, storing the alarm alerts in an alarm database, and managing the alarm alerts by the central application module so that a user can view the alarm alerts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08155275&OS=08155275&RS=08155275
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08155275
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060403
---
This application is a continuation in part of copending U.S. utility application entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING RECORDERS FROM A CENTRAL POINT OF ADMINISTRATION having Ser. No. 11 359 325 filed on Feb. 22 2006 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

As shown in a call center premises includes branches in which each branch includes a recording system . The recording. systems include recorder computing devices that are connected to recorders respectively. The recorders record interactions between an agent and a customer or between agents such as conversations in a TDM or IP environment instant messenger IM chatting and video conferencing for example.

Each computing device includes a recorder manager not shown that controls all components alarms and other activities associated with a corresponding recorder. Notably if a user has access to such a recorder at this level the user has full control of all the features on the recorder. However a user in branch can control the features on the recorder but cannot control the features on recorders in branches . Thus recorder control is somewhat segmented.

Disclosed is an enterprise manager that enables a centralized control of recorders. The enterprise manager can be deployed within a central application module within a company premises distributed across multiple geographic locations and or embedded into the network as a service on a network infrastructure including legacy infrastructure and potentially VoIP based infrastructure. The enterprise manager can provide security through setting access levels to individual roles and users. The enterprise manager can provide a hierarchical based management display of installed recorders update authentication servers associated with a recorder from the enterprise manager and implement reliable messaging to achieve a task. The enterprise manager can display alarms from all of the recorders in a hierarchical list and copy recorder configuration across recorders. Such an enterprise manager can be administered at a centralized location and or be embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure.

Systems and methods for managing alarms from recorders are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of receiving alarm alerts from one or more recorders by a central application module the alarm alerts being operative to notify a user of a problem associated with the one or more recorders storing the alarm alerts in an alarm database and managing alarm alerts by the central application module so that a user can view the alarm alerts.

In some embodiments a user may be able to easily and quickly advance that is drill down to the recorder of interest responsive to receiving an alarm alert and take any necessary corrective action such as reset the recorder or clear the alarms. The user can even review the various alarms such as when the alarms were last triggered and how many alarms of that type have occurred.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for managing recorders in call center premises such as through an enterprise manager. The enterprise manager enables a centralized control of recorders. The enterprise manager can be administered at a centralized location e.g. within a company premises in a single central application module and or embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems have been described examples of flow diagrams and sequence diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which a voice communication can be recorded.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic view of an embodiment of a system for managing recorders in a call center premises. The system can be located in a call center premises that includes a central application module . Server can be located in headquarters and is connected to a network e.g. wide area network WAN local area network LAN virtual private network VPN and Internet . Recording systems can be located in branches and include recorders that are connected to recording computing devices having browsers respectively. Each recording system is connected to the network which communicates with the central application module a first authentication server and a second authentication server .

The central application module comprises a processing device memory one or more user interface devices one or more input output I O devices and one or more networking devices each of which is connected to a local interface . The processing device can include any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the central application module a semiconductor base microprocessor in the form of microchip or a macroprocessor. The memory can include any one or a combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM etc. and non volatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CD ROM etc. .

The one or more user interface devices comprise elements with which the user e.g. user and supervisor can interact with the central application module . Where the central application module comprises a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop computer or similar device these components can comprise those typically used in conjunction with a PC such as a display device having display diagrams headset device keyboard and mouse.

The one or more I O devices comprise components used to accelerate connection of the central application module to other devices and therefore for instance comprise one or more serial small computer system interface SCSI universal serial bus USB or IEEE 1394 e.g. Firewall connection elements. The networking devices comprise the various components used to transmit and or receive data over the network where provided. By way of example the networking devices include a device that communicates both inputs and outputs for instance a modular demodular e.g. modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge and a router as well as a network card etc.

Memory normally comprises various programs in software and or firmware including an operating system O S an enterprise manager a persistence database and a reliable messaging application . The O S controls the execution of programs including the enterprise manager and reliable messaging application and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management communication control and related services. The enterprise manager facilitates the management of recorders in the call center premises as well as enterprise wide security events and activities. Typically a process of the enterprise manager involves communicating with the recorder computing devices via the network and managing the recorders particularly configuring roles of users to have specific access rights with respect to the recorders. Operation of the enterprise manager is described in relation to .

The enterprise manager can update authentication information with the recorder computing devices to communicate with a first authentication server and a second authentication server . The operation of updating information with the recorder computing devices to communicate with a first authentication server and a second authentication server is described in relation to . The reliable messaging application assures that the recorder computing devices perform messages sent by the enterprise manager . Operation of the reliable messaging application is described in relation to . The enterprise manager and reliable messaging application can be administered at a centralized location and or embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure.

The assigned roles for the users are transmitted to the recorder computing devices as shown at event . At event the recorder computing device configures the roles of the users based on the information received from the enterprise manager. At event the recorder computing devices confirm that the roles of the users are assigned and at event the administrator can logout of the system. At event the users log into the recorder computing devices with assigned roles enabling the users to perform recorder administration features. At event the users perform the roles that were assigned by the administrator and at event the users log out of the recorder computing devices. It should be noted that the role based security method could be applied in a retailing or banking environment. For example in a banking environment a primary user e.g. a parent can allocate privileges to secondary users e.g. his her kids. The privileges could include being able to pay bills up to a certain amount of money or being able to only pay a certain credit card bill for example.

The administrator can view available roles as shown in display diagram by selecting file menu General Setup and option Roles Setup . The display diagram illustrates a list of available roles that includes fields such as role name default role description and modules . A Yes No text area in the default role field indicates that the role is to be assigned to users if no other is assigned to the role. The modules field indicates the level of security assigned to the role. Within each module a subset of security levels exist. For example administrator does not require a user to be assigned to the role at all times and is assigned the following level of security Authorization Enterprise Management Tool Integration Server Access Organization People Personal Profile System Management and What If. Display diagram includes action features such as setting a default role creating a new role from existing roles creating new role editing role and deleting role .

Installation scope field enables the administrator to assign and edit scopes granted to the user such as one or more geographic locations or sites. In this example the installation scope field provides a hierarchy list of geographic locations or sites. An enterprise site is the top level and a UK site is a sub level of the enterprise site. Glasgow London and SC sites are sub levels of the UK site. The administrator gave access rights of recorders gl rec gl rec and gl rec to the User within the Glasgow site. This would limit the user capabilities at the Glasgow site and the user would not be given access to non selected sites such as the London and SC sites. That said the user might not be able to view the non selected sites. Additionally or alternatively the hierarchy list can be structured as business units. For example an enterprise site is the top level and billing service and customer service sites are sub levels.

At event the enterprise manager instructs the recorder computing device to update the authentication server by using a second authentication server as a primary authentication server for the enterprise manager and the first authentication server as a secondary authentication server for the enterprise manager. At event the recorder computing device configures to use the second authentication server as primary authentication server for the enterprise manager and the first authentication server as a secondary authentication server for the enterprise manager.

Additionally or alternatively if the recorder computing device cannot configure to use the second authentication server the recorder computing device can automatically be configured to use the first authentication server. Additionally or alternatively the enterprise manager saves the settings of the first authentication server and enables users to manually revert to the saved settings of the first authentication server if the recorder computing device cannot configure to use the second authentication server. The saved settings are transmitted to the recorder computing device which configures to use the first authentication server.

Additionally or alternatively the first authentication server can be configured as a primary authentication server for logging into the recorder manager and the second authentication server can be configured as the secondary authentication server for logging into the enterprise manager. Additionally or alternatively the first authentication server can be configured as a primary authentication server for logging into the enterprise manager and the recorder can be configured to communicate with the second authentication server for updating the authentication server of the recorders. Additionally or alternatively the recorder can be configured to continue using the first authentication server as a primary authentication server and then use the second authentication server as a secondary authentication server.

At event the recorder computing device confirms successful configuration to use the second authentication server with the enterprise manager. At event the administrator logs out of the enterprise manager. At event once the recorder computing device successfully configures to use the second authentication server a recorder manager and or the enterprise manager transmit login information to the recorder computing device. At event the recorder computing device provides authentication information associated with the login information to the second authentication server pursuant to the enterprise manager updating the authentication server. At event the second authentication server validates the authentication information and transmits validation information associated with authentication information to the recorder computing device.

If the second authentication server cannot validate the authentication information due to for example malfunction of the second authentication server the recorder computing device detects the malfunction status and automatically configures to use the first authentication server and transmits the authentication information to the first authentication server. Additionally or alternatively the enterprise manager can detect and indicate to a user that the second authentication server has malfunctioned. The enterprise manager enables the users to manually revert to saved settings of the first authentication server as mentioned above. Because the authentication process between the recorder computing device and the first authentication server had been successful before the first authentication server should validate the authentication information associated with the login information. Either after event or event the recorder computing device confirms successful login with the enterprise manager as shown at event . An advantage among others is that this method provides two chances for the recorder computing device to authenticate the login information of the user either at the second authentication server or the first authentication server which potentially assures that the authentication process is successful. In other words the method can prevent administrators from locking themselves out of the system.

It should be noted that the enterprise manager enables the user to monitor the authentication servers that have been successfully or unsuccessfully configured with the corresponding recorder computing device. That is the enterprise manager can provide a list of authentication servers along with status information indicating whether the authentication servers have been successfully or unsuccessfully configured with the corresponding recorder computing device. Another advantage among others is that this method can provide an enterprise manager upgrade path that does not require having to physically go around to each recorder and manually update the recorder configuration.

Additionally or alternatively the enterprise manager and the first authentication server are integrated in a first computing system and the second authentication server and a second enterprise manager are integrated in a second computing system. After the recorder computing device has been reconfigured to communicate with the second computing system the administrator can immediately use the second enterprise manager without having any downtime of the system for updating the recorder configuration.

The persistence database arranges and transmits the messages in sequential order to a reliable messaging application at events and respectively. Some messages are performed in sequential order so that intended tasks associated with the messages can be achieved. For example a first task has three messages A B and C and a second task has four messages D E F and G that are arranged in first and second sequential orders respectively. The first and second tasks are achieved by completing the messages A B C D E F and G in sequential order. If instructions associated with the message A of the first task are performed and instructions associated with the message B of the first task cannot be performed then the first task can not be achieved. If such happens the persistence database stops transmitting the messages for the first task and begins to transmit the messages of the second task. The persistence database resumes transmitting the messages of the first and second tasks if the tasks are not achieved. The persistence database assures that the messages of the intended tasks are performed in blocks so that the associated tasks can be achieved.

The reliable messaging application transmits the messages to the recorder computing message at event . At event the reliable messaging application provides status of the messages indicating whether the reliable messaging application transmitted the messages. For example the status of the message could confirm that the message has been received and processed without error. At event the recorder computing device receives the messages and confirms that performance of the messages was successful or unsuccessful . At event if the recorder computing device receives and performs the messages successfully then the reliable messaging application communicates with the persistence database to delete the performed messages from the database. If the recorder computing device does not perform the messages successfully the sequence returns to in which the persistence database transmits the messages in sequential order as indicated at event . An advantage among others of the reliable messaging operation is that the message can be performed even when the enterprise manager malfunctions. The reliable messaging application will continue to send the message until the message is successfully processed or deleted from the system by the user. Alternatively or additionally the reliable messaging application can repeat transmitting of the messages for a certain number of times e.g. 25 times. After the certain number of times the reliable messaging application stops transmitting the messages and notifies the user via the display device that the messages cannot be achieved.

Before a user can be assigned their roles within a call center premises an administrator can create or edit sites site groups and users using the enterprise manager. Creating sites and site groups allows administrators to organize recorders according to their geographical or business needs. The administrator can assign the users privileges to access software installation configurations that are restricted to a sub hierarchy of the enterprise manager. Privileges may also be restricted at the site group or site level. Site groups are collections of sites in the enterprise hierarchy that facilitate the administration and security for installed recorders. The display diagrams of illustrate examples of how the administrators create or edit sites site groups and users and view alarms from recorders.

Each alarm can have different email profiles associated with it. Such email profiles can be used to indicate that an alarm notification is to be sent to an individual or group that is interested in that event. For example a user who is managing an archive system might get notifications of events that are appropriate to that role. Each individual recorder manages the e mailing of notification alerts and hence the profiles of each recorder can be different if so desired.

In other words configuration and key parameter data can be copied from one source recording system to one or more target recording systems. The source data may be selected from a list of key functional areas such as in the Selected components to copy section . The configuration data is then applied to the target recorders in such a way as to update the configuration of the functional areas selected. Any data that is unique to a given recording system is maintained with only the non unique data being updated. The source and target recording systems do not need to be identical in their capabilities. The configuration data will be applied to any available instances of the functional area to be configured on the target systems.

An advantage among others of this copying method is that a copy of the recorders configuration does not have to include all available components but selected components as mentioned above. Another advantage among others is that the source recording systems may have different physical configurations than the target. Those components that are the same can be copied from the source recording system to the target recording system. Another advantage among others is that in the case of functions where there may be multiple instances in the source recorder the first in the configuration list is used.

Another advantage among others is where there are multiple instances of a feature to be configured in the source recorder then all instances can be applied with the configuration data. For example the configuration data from the first analog card in the source recorder can be applied to the 15 cards in the target recorder. Another advantage among others is that non unique data can be copied to the source system such as Card ID or Serial numbers. Another advantage among others is that the configuration copy is delivered through the guaranteed delivery process within the enterprise manager. Another advantage among others is that the status of the configuration copy and any failures are reported.

The enterprise manager allows an administrator to organize other recording assets under sites. A site is defined as a logical collection of remote components while a site group is defined as a logical collection of sites. The enterprise manager can integrate other remote components spread across the enterprise such as an Audio Server Central Archive Manager Multimedia Server BDR Server.

Additionally or alternatively the enterprise manager enables a user to install one or more audio servers to a site and or site group level which allows an application layer to determine the location of the audio server for load balancing and proximity determination purposes. Additionally or alternatively the enterprise manager enables an administrator to install one or more central archive manager CAM servers at a site and or site group level which allows the administrator to determine which recorders are associated with which CAM Server. This flexibility allows a company to distribute the load of archiving across multiple recorders on different servers. Each CAM server can run its own archival campaigns which can be independent from CAM Servers.

Additionally or alternatively a multimedia Post processing MMP server can be configured on a specific recorder or installed on a separate server. The MMP server is capable of stitching contents recorded on different recorders and converting the encoding of the recorded calls for example. The enterprise manager allows registration of one or more MMP servers at a site and or site group level. This allows an application layer to perform load balancing and perform least cost routing. Additionally or alternatively multiple business device recorder BDR servers can be registered at a site and or a site group level. Hence to represent the relationship between the recorders and BDR servers the enterprise manager can represent a topology between the recorders and BDR Servers.

It should be noted that the any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present invention.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

