---

title: Pressure sensor with expanding member
abstract: Systems and methodologies that provide for multi-parameter sensing via micro fabricated sensing structures operatively connected to oscillators, each micro-fabricated sensing structure in part defines a frequency of a respective associated oscillator. Output from such oscillators can be combined together, and then AC coupled with an incoming DC voltage that feeds the oscillators. The wiring arrangement includes two conducting paths/wires that carry a direct current to the oscillators as well as outputting the combined signal to external measurement devices. In addition, arrangements for pressure sensors are provided that mitigate errors from temperature variations and the induced stress/strains.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07418870&OS=07418870&RS=07418870
owner: ZIN Technologies
number: 07418870
owner_city: Brook Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060213
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 069 801 filed on Feb. 28 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 042 230 and entitled MULTI PARAMETER SENSING SYSTEM the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

This subject invention has been developed with government support under Contract No. DMI 0321616 awarded by National Science Foundation NSF . The United States government may have certain rights in the invention.

The subject invention relates generally to sensors and in particular to a micro fabricated sensor system with a two wire arrangement namely a signal wire that carries a direct current to electrical oscillators of a sensing system and a ground wire that functions as a return path for closing a typical electrical circuit. Such an arrangement carries direct current to electrical oscillators of the sensing system while simultaneously outputting combined signals from such oscillators to external measurement analyzing device s .

Sensors are typically employed in a wide array of industrial applications for the measurement of various physical parameters e.g. pressure and temperature. Such sensors often rely on variance of a physical property that is measured by a sensing element and then correlated to a value of the desired parameter by measurement or analyzer units. For example pressure and temperature sensors often rely on the transmission of strain from an elastic structure e.g. a diaphragm bellows and the like to the sensing element.

For such sensors errors in measurement may occur if properties other than those intended influence the measured properties. For example temperature stresses strains induced in the diaphragm of a pressure sensor from an attachment surface can adversely affect accuracy of the pressure measured with such sensor. Likewise as a result of the mismatch created by the differences in the coefficients of thermal expansion for the sensor and its packaging undesirable thermo mechanical stresses can also be induced on the sensor element. As such packaging components having material properties different than the sensors that they carry can also affect measurement reliability.

Moreover in general the long term stability of the sensor attachment to the associated structure is also important since attachment of a typical sensing element to another structure with high temperature variation can in general contribute to a large source of error when the attachment is not highly stable. Accordingly a major source of such long term sensor instability can be effect of other undesired parameters such as temperature changes and the ensuing stress strain on the sensing element from sources other than those being measured. Such can typically result in a permanent shift or drift error in the sensor signal output and create inaccurate measurements.

At the same time typical electronics and their associated sensitive devices cannot be placed in close proximity to the harsh environments wherein the required parameters are actually acquired e.g. high temperature pressure that exist within an engine turbine and the like since exposure to such harsh environment can prevent correct operation or cause permanent damage of electronic circuitry. Accordingly wiring arrangements can in general be required to transfer a signal resulting from measurements in the Hot Zone to an analyzer device placed in normal room temperature or a Cold Zone . Such wirings can add to complexities of a sensing system and at the same time increase costs associated with installations as well as interfacing costs and interconnect procedures with other devices.

Therefore there is a need to overcome the aforementioned exemplary deficiencies associated with conventional systems and devices.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of one or more aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the invention nor to delineate the scope of the subject invention. Rather the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented hereinafter.

The subject invention provides for systems and methods of multi parameter sensing via micro fabricated sensing structures that can in part define frequency of electronic oscillators operatively connected thereto wherein output from such oscillators can be combined together and then alternating current coupled AC coupled with an incoming DC voltage that powers the oscillators. The wiring arrangement of the subject invention can include a two wire combination e.g. two conducting paths two wires and the like that carries a direct current to the oscillators and outputs the combined signal to external measurement devices. This wiring arrangement in general operates via a combination of signal wire that functions in conjunction with a second wire that acts as a return path to close a typical electrical circuit. Such an arrangement can facilitate wiring from the harsh measurement environment of sensing elements to external measurement analyzer units for example via a two wire co axial cable that has low sensitivity to external environmental noise and provides for an efficient implementation.

In a related aspect of the subject invention a plurality of sensors are operationally connected to a plurality of oscillators with frequencies that can vary in part based on variation in measured parameters. Output signals from the oscillators can then be combined by a mixer to form a combined signal e.g. a combined alternating signal . Such combined signal can then be AC coupled with an incoming DC that supplies power to the plurality of oscillators. The coupling of the mixed signal with the incoming DC can simplify circuit design wherein the two wiring combination can output the mixed signal to an external measurement device while simultaneously supply power to the oscillators. Additionally a low pass filter can be provided to prevent or mitigate a return of the mixed signal to power inputs of the oscillators. Like wise a capacitor can be supplied as part of the circuit design of the subject invention to prevent the DC to be directed to an output of the mixer.

In a further aspect of the subject invention a pressure sensor can be connected to a package such that the contact area therebetween is less than the area at base of the sensor. For example to reduce the contact area with the package a step shaped structure can be formed as part of the sensor base to form a typically free expanding member with the sensing element placed thereon. Such step shaped structure reduces a contact area with the package to mitigate effect of stress due to temperature variations on the pressure sensing element. As such the resulting free expanding member can typically expand contract beneath the pressure sensing element during temperature changes. The free expanding member can be fabricated from a single material type. Accordingly the single coefficient thermal expansion of the expanding member can provide a zone wherein induced temperature stresses strains are typically absorbed and or primarily manifested therein and thus stress strain inducement on the pressure sensing element can be mitigated. The pressure sensor can operate based on piezoresistive capacitive and or resonant structures.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the invention. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject invention is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject invention. It may be evident however that the subject invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject invention.

Referring initially to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a multi parameter sensing system in accordance with an aspect of the subject invention. A plurality of micro fabricated sensors 1 thru n where n is an integer are provided to measure various desired parameters such as temperature pressure speed of chemical reaction and the like. The micro fabricated sensors can be fabricated from materials such as single crystal or polycrystalline silicon silicon carbide silicon nitride diamonds and the like materials that can tolerate high temperature and pressure.

Such micro fabricated sensors are positioned in a feedback path of electronic oscillator s 1 thru m where m is an integer wherein at least two outputs e.g. the three outputs from the oscillator s can be combined together via a mixer to form a combined signal and then alternating current coupled AC coupled at with an incoming DC voltage that feeds the oscillators . Such oscillators can be a Colpitts Pierce Hartly and the like oscillators. The oscillation frequency of each oscillator can depend on a physical parameter that a respective sensor can measure.

The wiring arrangement includes a single wire that carries the direct current to the oscillators as well as outputting the combined signal to external measurement devices. Such wire is combined with a second wire that functions as a return path to close a typical electrical circuit. Such an arrangement can facilitate wiring from the harsh measurement environment to external measurement units not shown for example via a two wire co axial cable which can have low sensitivity to external noise.

As explained above the system includes a micro fabricated sensor that is sensitive to both pressure and temperature and another micro fabricated sensor that is sensitive to temperature only. As such proper temperature correction can be performed on the pressure measurement obtained by the sensor that measures both temperature and pressure. The oscillation frequency of oscillator depends on temperature and the oscillation frequency of oscillator depends on temperature and pressure. Such frequencies of oscillators and are designated such that they do not typically overlap.

As illustrated in the mixer can mix outputs from the oscillators and to form a combined signal that is AC coupled with an incoming DC voltage that powers the oscillators. Put differently the same wires that carry an incoming DC voltage for powering the oscillators can be employed to carry the combined signal to a receiver circuit associated with an external measurement unit or analyzer component.

Referring now to such receiving circuit with an external measurement analyzer unit is illustrated. Receiving circuit can be located away from the high temperatures where the sensor elements actually acquire the measured parameters. As such the receiving circuit can be placed in a cold zone or room temperature and the associated electrical circuitry typically need not be high temperature resistant. Pass band filters can separate signals coming from the various oscillators and direct to the requisite electronic circuitry e.g. the analyzer for frequency measurement and or temperature correction of the measured pressure environment. A DC voltage source can supply power for the oscillators that is AC coupled with output of the oscillators as explained in detail supra.

For example to reduce the contact area with the package a step shaped structure can be formed as part of the sensor base that reduces a connection area with a package and creates a typically free expanding member with the sensing element placed thereon. In general the free expanding member can freely expand and contract to mitigate effects of stress due to temperature variations on the pressure sensing element . The pressure sensor can measure a relative pressure of a surrounding environment relative to the space within the encapsulation . Such pressure sensor can employ a piezoresistive capacitive and or resonating pressure sensing element . The expanding member can typically be fabricated from one material type e.g. silicon carbide that has a uniform coefficient of thermal expansion to provide a zone wherein induced temperature stresses strains are typically absorbed and or manifested therein thus mitigating stress strain inducement on the sensing element . Accordingly the expanding member can expand or contract and mitigate deformation on the sensing element positioned thereupon.

It is to be appreciated that the step shaped structure is exemplary and the free expanding member can form as a result of a connection of a base of the micro fabricated pressure sensor to a package such that a connection area therebetween is less than an area of the base for example an arrangement that employs only a segment of the base area as opposed to the whole base area for connecting the sensor to the package. Moreover the wire connection area can accept a wire for connection to the sensor in a horizontal orientation.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to certain illustrated aspects it will be appreciated that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices circuits systems etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the invention. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has having and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

