---

title: Server based technique for optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups
abstract: A server based method for optimizing call setup latency including updating client location information using at least one application server; identifying and updating parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which the at least one client is receiving communication service; determining at least one geographically dense call group; choosing at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group; selecting a plurality of designated responders as targets for m largest clusters; computing hash outputs of the targets; and performing a logical OR operation on lower order n bits of the hash outputs corresponding to the targets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07903623&OS=07903623&RS=07903623
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07903623
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061213
---
The present invention generally relates towards reducing communication latency. More particularly the present invention relates to a server based method for optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones laptops personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. A wireless device is any device that can communicate with other devices without being physically attached to them. Most wireless devices communicate with each other through radio frequencies.

More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

However these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device. Due to severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such remote personal computing devices client devices .

Some of the personal computing devices utilize an application programming interface API or application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. An API is a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures used by the computer s operating system.

Further some APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some of such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software application without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW can operate with a computing device s e.g. a wireless cellular phone operating system and can among other features provide interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW can also provide these interfaces on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Additional features of BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

The foregoing description of the related art is merely intended to provide an overview of wireless devices and some of the known uses of APIs and as an introduction to the BREW platform which can be used in various embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a specific physical configuration implementation operating platform or environment.

In a group call communication system the reduction of latency is an important design goal which directly translates into end user customer satisfaction and utility. Some examples of sources of latency in a wireless network follow. Channel assignment latency is a delay in assigning and initializing a traffic channel for the user s communication needs. Paging latency is a delay incurred while waiting for the user s mobile device to respond to a page in an appropriate paging channel slot. Over the air transmission is another source of latency as the calls originate travel and are received over a communication infrastructure.

In addition to these types of delays there are delays that may also occur at the group call communication server. Some examples of server delays are user request processing and server component communication.

In a Push to Talk PTT system all of the various types of delays contribute to PTT latency. PTT latency is the delay between the time the user requests a floor by pressing the PTT button and the time the user receives confirmation from a PTT application server that the call has been established and the floor is available. With the exception of paging latency the delays described above also contribute to end to end media latency which is the delay between the time the originator starts speaking and the time when the targets actually hear the originator s speech.

Therefore it is desirable and advantageous to provide a method for reducing latency in a group communication system.

During call setups for geographically dense groups and multicast groups a high number of access probe collisions occur as multiple targets registered in the same sector attempt to respond to the call request at the same time. These collisions cause an increase in call setup times. There is a need for a method and system to avoid these collisions at the application layer.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed towards a server based technique for optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups.

Accordingly one embodiment of the invention is a server based method for optimizing call setup latency including updating client information using at least one server identifying and updating parameters uniquely identifying from where at least one client is receiving communication service determining at least one call group choosing at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group selecting a plurality of designated responders as targets computing data outputs of the targets and performing logical operations on selected bits of the data outputs corresponding to the targets.

Another embodiment of the invention is a server based method for optimizing call setup latency including updating client location information using at least one application server identifying and updating parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which at least one client is receiving communication service determining at least one geographically dense call group choosing at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group selecting a plurality of designated responders as targets for m largest clusters computing hash outputs of the targets and performing a logical OR operation on lower order n bits of the hash outputs corresponding to the targets.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method for optimizing call setup latency including selecting a target at random computing a hash of a the target s user address including at least one of the following an application layer identifier a target IP address or a subnet address and responding if a broadcast call request that is logically ORed with a hash masks its own computed hash.

Another embodiment of the invention is an apparatus for optimizing call setup latency including logic configured to update client location information using at least one application server logic configured to identify and update parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which the at least one client is receiving communication service logic configured to determine at least one geographically dense call group logic configured to choose at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group logic configured to select a plurality of designated responders as targets for m largest clusters logic configured to compute hash outputs of the targets and logic configured to perform a logical OR operation on lower order n bits of the hash outputs corresponding to the targets.

Another embodiment of the invention is an apparatus for optimizing call setup latency including logic configured to select a target at random logic configured to compute a hash of a the target s user address including at least one of the following an application layer identifier a target IP address or a subnet address and logic configured to respond if a broadcast call request that is logically ORed with a hash masks its own computed hash.

Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

One or more embodiments of the invention can be used in conjunction with a runtime environment e.g. API executing on a computing device. One such runtime environment API is the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software previously discussed. However one or more embodiments of the invention can be used with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

The following techniques and mechanisms are directed to implementing methods and components of mobile electronic device to interoperate with an input device via a standard earphone microphone connector. In general the mobile electronic device includes an interface to support data transfer between the mobile electronic device and the input device via the standard earphone microphone connector. This interface can be implemented in hardware and or software. Specific implementations and embodiments of this general concept are described below.

The various embodiments of the invention can thus be realized on any form of client device or wireless devices including a wireless communication portal of having wireless communication capabilities including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server ADS is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices and across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices and . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can include one or more servers that can each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality. Further not all elements e.g. pager ADS database etc. illustrated are necessarily used in all of the different embodiments of the invention that may be implemented.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote client devices such as wireless client computing devices and to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as ad display server which are used to provide cellular telecommunications services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In the embodiment shown a server can include the application download server ad dispatch server and the stored application database . The application download server server and the stored application database are illustrated as independent devices in this embodiment. However these devices can also be integrated into one common server or the functionality of one or more may be distributed over multiple devices as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The carrier network controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The BTS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the client devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS UDP datagrams or other over the air OTA methods known in the art.

The client device here a wireless client computing device such as a cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and or commands transmitted form the application download server ad dispatch server and or server . The computer platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as know to those skilled in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone has installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from the application download server . The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user or invoked by another API.

As used herein client device wireless device or client computing device includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein directed to ads communicated between a client device and a server. The client computing device can be serviced by at least one remote server with respect to at least such ads. Some examples of wireless computing devices which may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention includes cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs laptops paging devices navigation devices e.g. GPS based systems handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS or other OTA methods known in the art.

The phenomenon shown in causes an increase in the call setup times as the response to the call setup message is delayed. During call setups for geographically dense groups and multicast groups a high number of access probe collisions occur as multiple targets registered in the same sector attempt to respond to the call request at the same time. These collisions cause an increase in call setup times. The application layer scheme proposed herein potentially eliminates the collision probability by having the application server choose designated responders to these large group calls.

The following will describe an application layer optimization that helps minimize the number of collisions during call setups for geographically dense groups. When an application server attempts a call setup to multiple targets e.g. a push to talk group communication network in different sectors and the targets all attempt to respond simultaneously numerous collisions will occur depending upon the geographic density of the group.

The server maintains state for the set of predefined groups that are likely to be geographically dense. The server can accumulate different types of group and target information based upon the data obtained when each target e.g. phone or communication device registers with the application server. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that multicast groups will also benefit from the methods described herein.

When a client registers with the application server they include parameters that help uniquely identify the sector from which the client is receiving communication service such as CDMA service e.g. System ID SID Network ID NID Carrier Identifier pilot PN offset .

The client can additionally include pilot strength as an indication of physical proximity with the base station. It should be noted that as access power is normalized to take this into account physical proximity may not be representative of the access probe signal quality and consequently the use of physical proximity is made optional.

The server maintains state e.g. SID NID for members of all geographically dense predefined groups. For each group the server computes clusters of clients with the same pair and selects exactly one client per cluster as the designated responder for that cluster.

When the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call it selects the designated responders for the m largest clusters and computes a hash of these targets and broadcast performs a logical OR operation on the low order n bits n 16 suggested bits of hash outputs. We suggest that the value of m be small in order for the time complexity to be small. In order to make this step less computationally expensive the selection may be random or based on the pilot strength measurement or some other heuristic.

The use of the hash of these targets reduces the computational overhead required to handle the plurality of targets in the communication network. The following example is provided. Let us assume that the server has the following from 10 devices. It should be noted that both the devices and the server know the hashed values as both of them hash the same input value known to both using the same hash algorithm e.g. MD5 .

The server then includes this n bit output ANNOUNCE IDENT which is the hashed user addresses of the designated responders corresponding to the designated responders of m largest clusters for that group in the call setup announcement message.

When the targets receive the call setup message they compute the logical AND operation on the number included in the announcement message and the hash of their own user address.

If the following expression is true the client goes ahead and responds to the announcement without any extra delay in the application layer.

If the above condition in the expression is not met the client waits for a deterministic amount of time equal to the transmission time of an access probe containing the response to the announcement. Doing this significantly reduces the number of access collisions during group call setups.

Several exemplary scenarios follow. An application server randomly selects one target computes a hash of the targets and broadcasts the lower 8 bits of that hash to all targets.

Each target checks to see if the broadcast ANNOUNCE s hash matches its own and if so applies the algorithm for responding immediately to or after a delay. It is an advantage that this delay be kept at a minimum. This minimum delay is based on physical layer capabilities. For example if the base station can demodulate access probes from multiple devices which overlap but are offset by a certain number of slots or time then that time should be used for this delay calculation. One can substitute with and any other obvious unique addresses that the server already knows about or could already know about for other reasons. Any identifier the server uses to store the identity of the device can be used for this calculation. For example even an email address in its ASCII form is a bit sequence that can be hashed to a bit sequence of a fixed length. Also the hashing is done to provide a good randomization which is expected to increase the effectiveness of the algorithm For example two IP addresses 127.24.53.22 and 127.24.53.33 if unhashed could lead to the same identifier if the first three octets are used in calculation. However if these two addresses are hashed any 3 octets would likely be different.

Further the arrangement of the logic elements is merely for the convenience of illustration and should not be construed as limiting embodiments of the invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the functionality of the logic elements described herein may be integrated into one element or distributed as desired among various hardware and software elements.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there is no particular order of performing and executing the method functional blocks intended or implied in the preceding description. The foregoing methods discussed above can be used by themselves or in any combination thereof to achieve the same objective.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as direct access storage device DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only media e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to those embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The activities or steps of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described in the singular the plural is contemplated unless the limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

