---

title: Reduced paging cycles in a wireless communication system
abstract: Systems and methods for reducing paging cycles in a wireless communication system are disclosed. An extended suspend time can be set in a close connection message. A low power state can be initiated on a wireless device. Then, the wireless device can periodically wake from the low power state to check for a page directed to the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07764969&OS=07764969&RS=07764969
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07764969
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060213
---
The present invention generally relates to communications in a wireless environment. More particularly the invention relates to reducing paging cycles in a wireless communication system.

Wireless communication systems developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations or user terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art.

Additionally since the mobile stations are typically battery operated power conservation is emphasized in the system design. Accordingly mobile stations can go into sleep cycles and periodically awaken to monitor the control channel for messages paging directed to the mobile station. However the responsiveness of the communication system can suffer because the sleep state imposes additional delay in establishing communications to the mobile station. The degradation of the system responsiveness increases as the duration of the sleep cycles increases. In systems with long sleep cycles the system responsiveness may not be acceptable for all applications. Accordingly system engineers may face a trade off between poor power conservation and poor responsiveness.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for reducing paging cycles in a wireless communication system while maintaining some level of power conservation.

Accordingly at least one embodiment of the invention includes a method comprising setting an extended suspend time in a close connection message initiating a low power state on a wireless device and periodically waking during the extended suspend time from the low power state to check for a page directed to the wireless device.

Another embodiment of the invention includes an access terminal comprising a transceiver configured to communicate with a radio access network RAN over an air interface logic configured to include an extended suspend time in a close connection message logic configured to initiate a low power state and logic configured to periodically wake from the low power state during the extended suspend time to check for a page directed to the wireless device.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a mobile terminal comprising means for setting an extended suspend time in a close connection message means for initiating a low power state on a wireless device and means for periodically waking during the extended suspend time from the low power state to check for a page directed to the wireless device.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a computer readable media embodying a method to reduce paging cycles in an access terminal the method comprising setting an extended suspend time in a close connection message initiating a low power state on an access terminal and periodically waking during the extended suspend time from the low power state to check for a page directed to the access terminal.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC or base station controller. Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carriers the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC can be connected to multiple base stations or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC is typically connected to the MPT by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT MPC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including a transceiver configured to communicate with a radio access network RAN over an air interface. The ASIC other processor and or separate logic elements can include logic configured to include an extended suspend time in a close connection message logic configured to initiate a low power state and logic configured to periodically wake from the low power state during the extended suspend time to check for a page directed to the wireless device. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements.

Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The access terminal such as cellular telephone can have installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from an application download server. The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the operating system or API when so desired by the user or invoked by another program.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein directed to reducing paging cycles between an access terminal and a RAN. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the MPT RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT and MPC . The MPC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN.

As discussed in the background paging can be used to notify an access terminal e.g. wireless device that a communication directed to that terminal is available. Typically the access terminal monitors a non traffic channel e.g. control channel to check for paging directed to the access terminal. When an access terminal receives the paging information a traffic channel can then be established between the access terminal and radio access network RAN .

Since wireless devices are typically resource limited in terms of power it is advantageous to set the wireless device into a low power or sleep mode as is known in the art. However entering a sleep mode will typically increase the delay for receiving paging information from the RAN which can degrade the overall responsiveness of the wireless device and wireless communication. The following description is directed to a 1xEV DO Release 0 system to illustrate various aspects of embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to these embodiments.

For example as illustrated in wireless devices in standard 1xEV DO Release 0 operate with a 5.12 second paging cycle . The 5.12 second paging cycle is comprised of twelve 426.66 ms Control Channel Cycles CC Cycle . During session configuration the RAN can map the wireless device to one e.g. of these 12 Control Channel Cycles so that it may page the mobile on a 5.12 second boundary. Further in each CC Cycle data including paging data can be communicated in both synchronous capsules SC and asynchronous capsules AC . The SCs occur in a predictable position in the CC Cycle which is based on a defined control channel offset . In contrast the ACs can occur at any time there is not a SC . The impact of the predictability of the SCs will be discussed further below. While the standard 5.12 second paging cycle is adequate for many applications it is far too long for delay sensitive applications.

The 1xEV DO Release 0 standard e.g. 3GPP2C.S0024 Version 4.0 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety allows for the wireless device to operate in suspended mode where it can monitor the Control Channel for overhead messages for some period of time before transitioning to the sleep state. The wireless device indicates the period for which it will operate in suspended mode when it tears down its traffic channel with the RAN e.g. via a ConnectionClose message . Details of the ConnectionClose message are shown in the table below see e.g. 3GPP2C.S0024 Version 4.0 6.5.6.2.1 .

The MessageID field is set by the sender as 0x00. The CloseReason field is set by the sender to reflect the close reason. The CloseReason field values include 000 Normal Close 001 Close Reply and 010 Connection Error. All other values are reserved. The SuspendEnable field is set by the wireless device to 1 if it is enabling a suspend period following the close of the connection. The access network sets this field to 0 . The SuspendTime field is included only if the SuspendEnable field is set to 1 . The wireless device can set this field to the absolute system time of the end of its suspend period in units of 80 ms. The Reserved field is set so that the entire message is octet aligned. The sender sets this field to zero and the receiver ignores this field.

As noted in the excerpt above the wireless device can set the SuspendEnable bit to 1 and set the SuspendTime to a value that indicates how long it will continue to monitor the control channel for overhead messages e.g. pages . Accordingly in at least one embodiment of the invention the wireless device sets an extended suspend time and enters a low power mode as illustrated in . The wireless device can then wake up from the low power mode to check the control channel for any overhead messages. Therefore the wireless device can reduce its power consumption while still being operative during the designated periods e.g. a period for synchronous pages every 426.66 ms to monitor the control channel and reduce the latency. The latency is reduced because the wireless device will be paged within the shorter control channel cycle e.g. 426.66 ms as opposed to the longer sleep mode paging cycle e.g. 5.12 sec. . When data arrives at the RAN targeted for the wireless device the RAN thinks the wireless device is operating in suspended mode and schedules a page for the next control channel cycle e.g. up to 426.66 ms away . Accordingly this effectively simulates a 426.66 ms paging cycle.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. Referring to a flowchart illustrating at least one method according to embodiments of the invention is provided. For example the method can comprise setting an extended suspend time in a close connection message block . A low power state can be initiated on a wireless device block . The terms low power state low power cycle or low power mode are interchangeable and refer to a sleep type state during the extended suspend mode where the access terminal is conserving power. Then the wireless device can be periodically wakened from the low power state to check for a page directed to the wireless device block . As discussed above in the 1xEV DO system periodically can occur every control channel cycle 426.66 ms . However those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that periodically is not limited to specific time and may be adjusted to accommodate the specific system requirements. Additionally periodically does not infer that the process happens every cycle or for the entire duration of the extended suspend period. For example the wireless device may constantly monitor the control channel for a fixed number of cycles and then go into a low power state and periodically awaken.

Referring to additional embodiments of the invention are illustrated. The functionality of blocks and is essentially the same however the additional blocks account for additional features or interactions with the blocks previously discussed. For example the wireless device can negotiate the standard paging cycle e.g. a 5.12 second paging cycle with the RAN at power up e.g. during session negotiation block . However the wireless device is modified to wake up every control channel cycle 426.66 ms instead of at its negotiated 5.12 second sleep cycle as discussed above.

Since the suspend mode has not yet been defined the wireless device can open a traffic channel e.g. at power up or as required during operation block . The traffic channel can be monitored for the end of traffic block . However this may not be necessary for all situations. For example at the power up or other state initializations the traffic channel can be opened and then immediately closed block . Since the wireless device is closing the traffic channel it can set a very long suspend time when it brings down its traffic channel e.g. SuspendTime in the ConnectionClose message block as discussed above. The suspend time advertised by the wireless device can be longer than the default session timeout value e.g. 54 hours . However as used herein the extended suspend time is not limited to extending beyond the default session timeout value and can be any amount of time that extends beyond the shortened paging cycle. For example the extended suspend time could be on the order of minutes or hours. However typically a longer advertised extended suspend time will provide greater potential power savings and system responsiveness. As discussed above after advertising an extended suspend time the wireless device transitions to a low power mode or sleep state and ignores the fact that it has advertised a long suspend time to the RAN block . Then the wireless device periodically monitors the control channel e.g. every control channel cycle block .

It is assumed that the RAN supports paging wireless devices that are in suspended mode and that the RAN transmits synchronous pages to mobiles in suspended mode e.g. as defined in 1xEV DO since the wireless device is only monitoring at each control channel boundary. The wireless device can continue in this mode until a page is received block at which point the wireless device will process the page e.g. open a traffic channel .

The wireless device may also exit this low power mode when a traffic channel is requested from the client device itself block . For example a user wishes to open a traffic channel to transmit information to the RAN. Also the wireless device can check to see if it has reached the end time of the advertised suspend mode or if it is approaching a predetermine threshold e.g. one or more control channel cycles within the advertised set end of the suspend time block . If this time is reached then the process can initiate another open channel command to re establish a new suspend time as previously discussed. If this time is not reached then the process can continue in the low power suspend mode.

If the wireless device receives a connection close e.g. ConnectionClose in 1xEV DO message from the RAN or other external close message such as a connection error the wireless device can open a traffic channel and then send a close connection e.g. ConnectionClose in 1xEV DO message with a long suspend time to insure that the RAN can page the wireless device at the reduced paging cycle e.g. 426.66 ms instead of the longer sleep paging cycle e.g. 5.12 seconds . Accordingly in block the system is monitored for an external close . If the external close is detected the wireless device can open and close a traffic channel and advertise an extended suspend time as discussed above. An external close can be considered any close connection e.g. CloseConnection in 1xEV DO message not generated by the wireless device such as an error a close connection message from the RAN and the like.

In further aspects of the invention modification of existing RANs and infrastructure is not required. For example in 1xEV DO systems a RAN supports paging wireless devices access terminals that are in suspended mode. Further the RAN can be set to send synchronous pages to the wireless devices in suspended mode. The suspended mode generally implies that the wireless device is continuously monitoring the control channel. However according to embodiments of the invention the wireless device is only periodically monitoring the control channel e.g. at each control channel boundary . Therefore the RAN should be set to send synchronous pages to the wireless device to reduce the possibility of lost pages.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill would appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method to reduce paging cycles in an access terminal in accordance with the methods algorithms steps and or functions disclosed herein. For example the method embodied in the computer readable media can include setting an extended suspend time in a close connection message initiating a low power state on an access terminal and periodically waking during the extended suspend time from the low power state to check for a page directed to the access terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

