---

title: Wireless communications systems and methods using satellite-linked remote terminal interface subsystems
abstract: A satellite gateway is coupled to a communications network and is operative to communicate with a communications satellite. A terrestrial terminal interface subsystem is operative to communicate with the satellite gateway via the communications satellite using a first radio interface and to communicate with terminals over a geographic area using a second radio interface. The communications network may be a wireless communications network, and the satellite gateway is configured to communicate with a base station controller of the wireless communications network, such that the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem may provide one or more satellite-linked terrestrial base stations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE042261&OS=RE042261&RS=RE042261
owner: ATC Technologies, LLC
number: RE042261
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060509
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 356 264 entitled WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING SATELLITE LINKED REMOTE TERMINAL INTERFACE SUBSYSTEMS filed Feb. 12 2002 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to wireless communications apparatus and methods and more particularly to wireless communications system and methods using satellite and terrestrial components.

Cellular satellite communications systems and methods are also widely used to provide wireless communications. Cellular satellite communications systems and methods generally employ at least one space based component such as one or more satellites that are configured to wirelessly communicate with a plurality of radiotelephones or other types of cellular terminals. The overall design and operation of cellular satellite communications systems and methods are well known to those having skill in the art and need not be described further herein.

Hybrids of satellite and terrestrial systems may also be used. For example as is well known to those having skill in the art terrestrial networks can enhance cellular satellite communications system availability efficiency and or economic viability by terrestrially reusing at least some of the frequency bands that are allocated to cellular satellite communications systems. In particular it is known that it may be difficult for cellular satellite communications systems to reliably serve densely populated areas because the satellite signal may be blocked by high rise structures and or may not penetrate into buildings. As a result the satellite spectrum may be underutilized or unutilized in such areas. The use of terrestrial retransmission can reduce or eliminate this problem.

Moreover the capacity of the overall system can be increased significantly by the introduction of terrestrial retransmission since terrestrial frequency reuse can be much denser than that of a satellite only system. In fact capacity can be enhanced where it may be mostly needed i.e. densely populated urban industrial commercial areas. As a result the overall system can become much more economically viable as it may be able to serve a much larger subscriber base. One example of terrestrial reuse of satellite frequencies is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 937 332 to the present inventor Karabinis entitled Satellite Telecommunications Repeaters and Retransmission Methods.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a wireless communications system includes a satellite gateway coupled to a communications network and operative to communicate with a communications satellite. The system further includes a terrestrial terminal interface subsystem operative to communicate with the satellite gateway via the communications satellite using a first radio interface and to communicate with wireless terminals over a geographic area using a second radio interface. For example in some embodiments the communications network comprises a wireless communications network and the satellite gateway is configured to communicate with a base station controller of the wireless communications network such that the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem may provide one or more satellite linked terrestrial base stations.

In some embodiments the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem comprises an interface converter operative to convert between the first and second radio interfaces. The interface converter may be operative to transfer information from a plurality of terrestrial wireless communications channels to a lesser number of satellite communications channels. The interface converter may also be operative to transfer information from a single satellite communication channel to a plurality of terrestrial wireless communications channels.

According to further embodiments of the present invention the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem includes a satellite radio antenna and a terrestrial radio antenna co located at a single terrestrial base station. The terrestrial terminal interface subsystem may also comprise a plurality of terrestrial base stations located at respective ones of a plurality of geographically distributed sites and served by a single satellite link.

In yet additional embodiments the communications satellite is further operative to communicate with wireless terrestrial terminals without use of the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem. In particular the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem or the satellite or both may communicate with wireless terminals. For example in some embodiments the communications satellite is operative to receive information intended for wireless terminals from the satellite gateway and to convey the received information to the wireless terminals without use of the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem while the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem is operative to receive information from wireless terminals and to convey the received information to the communications network without use of the communications satellite. In this manner for example receive only terrestrial base stations may be used to provide uplinks from wireless terminals to a communications network while downlinks are provided directly from the satellite to the wireless terminals. In other embodiments the communications satellite is operative to receive information from wireless terminals without use of the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem and to convey the received information to the satellite gateway while the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem is operative to receive information intended for wireless terminals from the communications satellite and to convey the received information to terrestrial terminals. In this manner for example transmit only terrestrial base stations may be used to provide downlinks from a communications network to wireless terminals while uplinks may be provided directly from the wireless terminals to the satellite.

According to some method embodiments of the present invention communications between a communications network and a plurality of wireless terminals served by a terrestrial base station may be provided by conveying terminal communications between the communications network and the terrestrial base station via a communications satellite. The communication via the satellite can be bidirectional or unidirectional.

The present invention may be embodied in variety of forms including but not limited to wireless communications systems components of wireless communications systems combinations of components of wireless communications systems and wireless communications methods. For example the present invention may be embodied as earth based components and combinations thereof configured to interoperate with space based components as spaced based components and as combinations of earth based and space based components.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which typical embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As used herein the term cellular terminal refers to wireless terminals including but not limited to radiotelephone terminals cell phones with or without a multi line display Personal Communications System PCS terminals that may combine a radiotelephone with data processing facsimile and or data communications capabilities Personal Digital Assistants PDA that can include a radio frequency transceiver and a pager Internet intranet access Web browser organizer calendar and or a global positioning system GPS receiver and or conventional laptop and or palmtop computers or other appliances which include a radio frequency transceiver. These devices may be capable of wireless voice and or data communications.

As shown the terrestrial terminal interface subsystem includes a satellite antenna and a terrestrial antenna that are connected to an interface converter . The interface converter is configured to receive information from cellular terminals according to a first radio interface and to transmit the received information to the satellite according to a second radio interface and to receive information from the satellite according to the second radio interface and to transmit the received information to the cellular terminals according to the first radio interface. For example the first radio interface may conform to a conventional standard such as a GSM standard that uses Gaussian minimum shift keying GMSK modulation. The second radio interface may support a higher data rate using for example M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM such that information received from or intended for cellular terminals may be concentrated for transmission over the satellite link. In other embodiments the first and second radio interfaces may be the same or substantially similar.

It will be appreciated that the interface converter may include a variety of different components. For example in embodiments described below with reference to the interface converter may be positioned at a remote base station and may include components to convert signals received over the satellite link into radio signals for transmission to cellular terminals as well as components for performing complementary conversion of signals received from cellular terminals. In embodiments described below with reference to the interface converter may comprise components distributed among a remote BSC and base stations connected thereto. In such embodiments the interface converter may include for example components configured to convert between the satellite link signaling format and for example landline signaling formats used to communicate between the BSC and the base stations as well as components for converting between the signaling format used for the links between the BSC and the base stations and the radio signaling format used to communicate with cellular terminals.

As also shown in the remote terrestrial terminal interface subsystem may serve as part of an ancillary terrestrial component of the wireless communications system e.g. may function as a base station of an ancillary terrestrial network ATN of a satellite mobile communications system in a manner similar to that of the terrestrial base stations described in a United States Provisional Patent Application entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TERRESTRIAL REUSE OF MOBILE SATELLITE SPECTRUM U.S. Pat. No. 60 322 240 filed Sep. 14 2001 and U.S. Patent Application entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TERRESTRIAL RE USE OF MOBILE SATELLITE SPECTRUM U.S. Ser. No. 10 074 097 filed Feb. 12 2002 the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In particular cellular terminals may be operative to communicate with the system directly through the satellite or may indirectly communicate with the system via the remote terrestrial terminal interface subsystem . It will be understood however that the present invention is also applicable to systems and methods in which communications between cellular terminals and the satellite are limited to communications via terrestrial terminal interface subsystems such as the remote terrestrial terminal interface subsystem i.e. without direct communication between the cellular terminals and the satellite .

It will be appreciated that the satellite link through the satellite may generally support a higher data rate than radio links to individual cellular terminals due to for example a less obstructive radio signal propagation environment and or less interference and or higher available transmit power. The concentrator deconcentrator takes advantage of this higher data rate capability by combining information received from or intended for terminals in a signal formatted according to a higher data rate signaling format for transfer through the satellite link.

The information recovered from the demodulator regenerator component may then be reformatted and remodulated by a modulator component . The remodulated signal is then filtered and amplified by a filter and a power amplifier to produce a signal for transmission to the cellular terminal via the terrestrial antenna . Power information obtained by the demodulator regenerator component may be used by a modulator component to control the power of a signal transmitted to the satellite .

Signals received from the cellular terminal via the terrestrial antenna are processed by a bandpass filter and an LNA . The signal produced by the LNA is processed by a demodulator regenerator component to recover information in a format suitable for remodulation and transmission to the satellite . The demodulator regenerator component may for example produce respective datastreams that correspond to respective GSM carriers received from the terrestrial antenna . As shown the demodulator regenerator component may be operatively associated with an interference reducer such as a decision feedback canceller that cancels interference in the signals received by the terrestrial antenna e.g. interference generated by transmissions from the satellite antenna . For example an interference reducer along the lines described in the aforementioned U.S. Ser. No. 60 322 240 and U.S. Ser. No. 10 074 097 may be used.

The information recovered from the demodulator regenerator component is remodulated in a modulator component producing a remodulated signal corresponding to the multiple GSM carriers. This signal is then filtered and amplified by a filter and a power amplifier to produce a signal for transmission to the satellite via the satellite antenna . As described above with reference to the signal may be conveyed via the satellite to a gateway which may include a complementary radio interface conversion architecture. Power information obtained by the demodulator regenerator component may be used by the modulator component to control the power of the signal transmitted to the cellular terminal .

It will be appreciated that the embodiments of are provided as examples of possible system and method configurations and that other configurations also fall within the scope of the invention. In particular it will be understood that wireless network functionality described above may be distributed in other ways among network components such as satellites BSCs MSCs and base stations.

In the drawings and foregoing description thereof there have been disclosed exemplary embodiments of the invention. Terms employed in the description are used in a generic and descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

