---

title: Methods and apparatus for premises content distribution
abstract: Apparatus and methods for protected content access, browsing and transfer over a network. In one embodiment, the network comprises a premises (e.g., residential) LAN, and the apparatus comprises a server and renderer consumer premise equipment (CPE). The renderer CPE scans the network to search for a server CPE that implement a compatible security framework. The renderer authenticates itself with the server, and the server allows content browsing and selection access only to an authorized and authenticated renderer. A negotiation and exchange protocol comprises messages exchanged between the renderer and the server that include one or more of device identification, encryption key exchange, digital certificates and information regarding security package used by each CPE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08732854&OS=08732854&RS=08732854
owner: Time Warner Cable Enterprises LLC
number: 08732854
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061101
---
This application is related to co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 006 404 filed Dec. 7 2004 and entitled Technique For Securely Communicating And Storing Programming Material In A Trusted Domain and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 584 208 filed Oct. 20 2006 and entitled Downloadable Security And Protection Methods And Apparatus each of the foregoing incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to the field of content e.g. multimedia audiovisual data applications etc. delivery over a network. Specifically in one aspect the invention relates to the methods and apparatus for enforcing digital rights within a premises network where a variety of devices implementing different security packages may be in communication with one another.

Recent advances in digital information processing have made a wide range of services and functions available for delivery to consumers at their premises for very reasonable prices or subscription fees. These services and functions include digital programming movies etc. digital video on demand VOD personal video recorder PVR Internet Protocol television IPTV digital media playback and recording as well high speed Internet access and IP based telephony e.g. VOIP . Other services available to network users include access to and recording of digital music e.g. MP3 files as well local area networking including wire line and wireless local area networks for distributing these services throughout the user s premises and beyond.

Increased deployment of wireless interfaces such as WiFi WiMAX and Bluetooth have also increased the prevalence and opportunity for ad hoc networking i.e. substantially spontaneous or flexible network topologies between as few as two different entities.

Currently many of these services are provided and delivered to the user via a wide variety of different equipment environments including inter alia cable modems WiFi hubs Ethernet hubs gateways switches and routers computers servers cable set top boxes PSTNs cellular telephones smartphones PDAs and portable digital music devices such as the Apple iPod . Additionally the services associated with such technology are typically provided by multiple vendors including e.g. a cable service provider e.g. MSO cellular service provider CSP wireless service provider WSP VoIP service provider music download service Internet service provider ISP PSTN telephone service etc.

Some improvements in digital service integration have been made over time. For example cable system subscribers such as those of the Assignee hereof can now access VOD PVR PPV and broadcast services simultaneously as well a Internet access via cable modem and even digital telephony e.g. VOIP . However these functions are still substantially disparate in terms of their hardware and software environments i.e. the user must have a cable modem set top box VoIP telephony unit PC etc. and cross over between the environments e.g. moving content or data from one environment to the other is quite limited.

Furthermore the movement of content delivered by these services within the user s premises or even outside is substantially frustrated largely due to concerns relating to protection of valuable e.g. copyrighted content and surreptitious reproduction and distribution. Such unauthorized reproduction and distribution not only detracts from the network operator s revenue and commercial viability but also that of the content source e.g. movie studio recording studio artist etc. .

Moreover the lack of a comprehensive and effective scheme for control of content within the user domain effectively precludes content providers from releasing new content over cable or satellite networks contemporaneous with its availability over retail or rental outlets due in large part to unauthorized access reproduction and distribution concerns. Stated simply new release content availability over cable typically lags that of rental retail due in large part to the lack of an effective control mechanism for the content once it is delivered to the user domain.

Accordingly a number of existing technologies have heretofore been developed employed by network operators in order to attempt to frustrate surreptitious access copying and distribution of valuable content. These technologies include i conditional access CA ii encryption iii the establishment of trusted domains TDs and iv digital rights management DRM .

Conditional access CA technologies are typically incorporated into content based networks such technologies including the digital encoding of various types of data including audio and video programming and music. Conditional access can generally be defined as the control of when and how a user may view and use the associated programming or information. Different types of conditional access may be desirable in a network delivery system in order to e.g. accommodate improvements in the technology over time as well as different conditional access attributes such as security and category of programming or user access level.

A variety of traditional methods of conditional access exist including e.g. Powerkey NDS and DigiCipher. A generalized conditional access model is also provided by the well known DVB Digital Video Broadcasting Specification TS 101 197 V1.2.1 02 02 DVB SimulCrypt Part 1 Head end architecture and synchronization and TS 103 197 V1.2.1 02 02 Head end Implementation of SimulCrypt each incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. These can be implemented using for example the so called CableCard plug in security module access technology also known as a a point of deployment POD module . See e.g. the CableCard Host interface specification which defines the interface between a digital cable receiver or STB Host device and the CableCard device provided by the MSO cable operator. CableCard was developed to satisfy certain security requirements to allow retail availability of host devices e.g. set top boxes digital cable ready televisions DVRs personal computers PCs integrated digital televisions etc. for receiving cable services. The CableCard comprising a PCMCIA device can be inserted into a host device allowing a viewer to receive cable systems secure digital video services e.g. pay per view TV electronic program guides premium subscription channels etc.

Specifically the CableCard contains conditional access functionality as well as the capability of converting messages to a common format. Thus the CableCard provides a cable operator with a secure device at the subscriber premises and acts as a translator so that the host device needs to understand a single protocol regardless of the type of the network to which it is connected.

In many content based networks e.g. cable television systems the client device or consumer premises equipment CPE receives through the cable TV network programming content which may be encrypted e.g. in accordance with the data encryption standard DES technique or Advanced Encryption Standard AES to secure its delivery.

DES is a well known symmetrical cipher that utilizes a single key for both encryption and decryption of messages. Because the DES algorithm is publicly known learning the DES key would allow an encrypted message to be read by anyone. As such both the message sender and receiver must keep the DES key a secret from others. A DES key typically is a sequence of eight bytes each containing eight bits. To enhance the DES integrity the DES algorithm may be applied successive times. With this approach the DES algorithm enciphers and deciphers data e.g. three times in sequence using different keys resulting in a so called triple DES 3DES technique.

The Advanced Encryption Standard AES also known as Rijndael is a block cipher adopted as an encryption standard by many entities including the U.S. government. It is used worldwide as is the case with its predecessor DES. AES was adopted by National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST and was codified as US FIPS PUB in November 20 AES provides a much higher level of encryption than DES or 3DES and hence is increasingly being integrated into applications where strong protection is desired including the delivery of content over cable or other content based networks.

In contrast to the DES or AES techniques a public key encryption technique e.g. an RSA technique named for its developers Rivest Shamir and Adleman uses two different keys. A first key referred to as a private key is kept secret by a user. The other key referred to as a public key is available to anyone wishing to communicate with the user in a confidential manner. The two keys uniquely match each other collectively referred to as a public key private key pair. However the private key cannot be easily derived from the public key. A party wishing to send a message to the user may utilize the public key to encrypt a message before transmitting it. The user then utilizes the private key to decrypt the message. Conversely the private key may be used to encrypt a message in which case the message can subsequently be decrypted with the public key. For example the keys for the RSA algorithm are mathematically generated in part by combining prime numbers. The security of the RSA algorithm and the like depends on the use of very large numbers for its keys which typically are 512 bits long or longer.

Another related approach for content protection comprises the creation and enforcement of a trusted domain or TD. Specifically such a trusted domain comprises an area physically or virtually within which programming or other content is protected from unauthorized access distribution and copying. For example in a cable network a trusted domain may include not only the network portion where programming content traditionally is secured by and within total control of a cable operator including e.g. the headend HFC delivery network etc. but also user devices or CPE 106 at subscribers premises which are capable of receiving and securely storing programming content. Using the trusted domain approach the network operator can guarantee certain subscriber access distribution and usage policy enforcement with respect to content held within the domain. For example a digital representation of a movie held within an operator s TD e.g. on a hard drive of a user device cannot be distributed over the Internet wireless network etc. in viewable form and cannot become a source for duplication of multiple viewable copies.

One exemplary approach of implementing a trusted domain described in co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 006 404 filed Dec. 7 2004 and entitled Technique For Securely Communicating And Storing Programming Material In A Trusted Domain TWC 03 17 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety comprises using two cryptographic elements e.g. encryption keys associated with a user and his her client device s respectively that control access to content stored in the client device s within the domain. The trusted domain is preserved with respect to the stored content so long as the content remains encrypted and continues to be managed under the prescribed key management methodology regardless of which device stores the content. Once the content itself is decrypted e.g. by a conditional access CA mechanism when data is sent from the DVR CPE to a television monitor for display the decrypted content is no longer within the trusted domain.

Closely related to the concept of a trusted domain is the so called ASD or Authorized Service Domain . ASD is a digital content management technology that is used by cable operators to protect their distributed content. ASD is defined by NGNA and CableLabs and specifies a protocol for devices to exchange content protection information and or security packages. These security packages typically pertain to service entitlement packages on the cable network. The security mechanism utilized with the ASD framework is typically tied to the security credentials of a multi stream CableCard see discussion of CA above or secure microprocessor SM under the so called DCAS or Downloadable Conditional Access System paradigm.

Another approach used to control the distribution and use of protected content within a content based network is to employ so called digital rights management DRM . For example Media rights management systems such as the Microsoft Windows Media Digital Rights Manager DRM may be used as well. The Windows Media Player Version 9 comprises audio and video codecs the Windows Media Encoder Windows Media Server Windows Media Software Development Kit SDK Digital Rights Management DRM technology and an extensibility model that allows integration into third party solutions.

According to one such DRM approach a digital media or content file is encrypted and locked with a license key. The license key is stored in a license file or other data structure which is distributed separately from the media or content. A user can obtain the encrypted media file by e.g. downloading it from a web site purchasing it on a physical media etc. To play the digital media file the user must first acquire the license file including the license key for that media file. The user acquires the license key by accessing a pre delivered license which includes license terms or policies . Alternatively when the user plays the file for the first time a procedure is invoked for retrieving the license via a network connection or other delivery mode e.g. the Internet . After obtaining the license with the license key the user is able to access the media file according to the rules or rights specified in the license policies.

Another approach to DRM see e.g. the RealNetworks Helix Platform and Community approach comprises encrypting a content file typically performed by the system operator to create a secured content file thereby requiring a cryptographic key to access the content in the file. The key is included within a retailer s database and the secured content file is distributed to users by e.g. Internet connection or offline distribution of CDs. The retailer itself sets usage rules and policies for licensing the content. A user contacts the retailer s web server such as via a trusted software client in order to obtain a license to access the encrypted content. The retailer s web server requests certain rights from the operator s license server the latter which creates a license containing the key for the requested content file. This license is given to the retailer e.g. via the web server which delivers the license to the trusted client of the user. The trusted client retrieves the content file and uses the received key to access the content.

A number of different approaches to device data interface are known in the prior art. More recently so called plug and play technologies have evolved in order to facilitate the ability for a user to connect two or more devices together including related controllers or control points and effectively have them be configured appropriately for communication without further user intervention. One of the best known of these technologies is the Universal Plug and Play UPnP approach which comprises a set of protocols that allow devices to connect seamlessly in a peer to peer fashion and exchange data and also to simplify the implementation of networks in the home and enterprise environments. This seamless connectivity is accomplished in large part via use of device control protocols built upon open Internet based communication standards such as TCP IP UDP and HTTP.

Hallmarks of UPnP include i media and device independence ii operating system and programming language independence and iii lack of specific device drivers. UPNP does not constrain the design of application programming interfaces APIs for applications running on interface control points. UPNP enables control over device user interface and interaction using a browser as well as conventional application programmatic control.

The UPNP architecture also supports zero configuration and automatic discovery whereby a device can dynamically join a network obtain an address announce itself convey its capabilities upon request and learn about the presence and capabilities of other devices.

Conditional access CA paradigms currently in use such as the aforementioned Powerkey and DigiCipher approaches are restricted in their scope and not generally extensible beyond the user s set top box or the equipment used to obtain digital content from a network service. So for example the user would generally be prohibited from transferring streamed or downloaded content to their WiFi enabled laptop or PC or via a USB or FireWire port since proper conditional access and content protection support does not exist in these devices or by virtue of the interfaces themselves.

Accordingly content sharing between authorized devices is typically performed in the prior art over a vendor specific or proprietary interface that is specific to a given conditional access system deployed in that network. As previously discussed the Authorized Service Domain ASD sets forth a protocol for devices to exchange content protection information and security packages on e.g. cable networks. These security packages may pertain for example to access or entitlement packages for services on the cable network. However no mechanism or protocol is provided under the ASD approach or otherwise for the protected access and distribution of content on a premises network especially one serving devices having potentially diverse hardware software and security environments.

For example in a typical home networking environment content delivered to and stored at the premises e.g. on a DVR needs to be delivered to multiple rooms or devices within or associated with the premises. Such multi room DVR or protected content transfer between devices within or associated with the home requires a secure and user implemented mechanism for exchanging security information. Ultimately credentials of the devices in the home network have to be verified against a trusted device list within the operator network e.g. at the cable head end or another authentication node. Using prior art approaches this has the disability of being overly centralized and hence somewhat inflexible especially with respect to premises networks which may be both high dynamic in their topology or participants as well as high heterogeneous in terms of their hardware software environments including within the premises network itself e.g. a WiFi AP may distribute content to a laptop or hand held computer via a wireless link or a converged premises device may interface with any number of other devices such as DSTBs laptops cable ready televisions DVRs etc. using two or more communication media such as indigenous coaxial cable CAT 5 cabling wireless etc. . Hence premises networks are highly dynamic and often composed of many different types of devices thereby requiring both a flexible and substantially universal mechanism for security information exchange and control transfer of protected content.

Thus improved apparatus and methods for facilitating the distribution of digital content within a user premises are needed. Such improved apparatus and methods would ideally operate at the application level thereby allowing ready implementation on any number of different platforms and environments in a substantially agnostic fashion and provide users the ability to browse and transfer content between equipment with different vendor s security package implementations.

Such improved apparatus and methods would also preferably be implemented in a manner that is both substantially automated and transparent to the user and which can leverage the capabilities of existing or planned industry standard interface technologies such as Universal Plug and Play UPnP if desired.

The present invention addresses the foregoing needs by disclosing apparatus and methods useful for managing and distributing content within a premises and beyond including inter alia i storing secure content ii detecting devices or entities in communication with a premises network that have compatible security framework iii browsing secure content within such devices or entities and iv transfer of secure content to and from authorized devices.

In a first aspect of the invention a method of sharing protected digital content between two devices associated with a network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises storing digital content at a first of the two devices authenticating a second of the devices requesting access to the digital content from the first device selectively providing access to the requesting device for browsing the digital content receiving a request for transmission of at least a portion of the content and selectively transmitting the at least portion of the content to the requesting device while maintaining the content protection. In one variant the network comprises a premises local area network LAN and at least the acts of authenticating providing access and transmitting are performed without access to a head end process of a cable television network with which at least a portion of the LAN is in communication.

In another variant the stored digital content comprises a plurality of media files each having a respective substantially unique title and the act of selecting providing access for browsing comprises providing access to at least the titles.

In another variant the method further comprises verifying that the second device comprises adequate security provisions for protecting the content before the act of transferring is commenced.

In still another variant the first and second devices comprise an authorized service domain ASD for maintaining the protection of the protected content.

In yet another variant the method further comprises placing the first and second devices in data communication with one another via a substantially standardized communications interface. The communications interface comprises a Universal Plug and Play UPnP interface and the first device completes the authentication using a substantially standardized security architecture.

In a second aspect of the invention premises content server apparatus configured for data communication with one or more devices over a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the server apparatus comprises storage apparatus configured to store a plurality of digital content authentication apparatus configured to authenticate at least one device requesting content from the server apparatus browsing apparatus adapted to provide browsing of the plurality of content by the at least one requesting device and security apparatus adapted to control access to the content by the browsing apparatus based at least in part on successful authentication of the at least one requesting device.

In one variant the server apparatus further comprises transmission apparatus the transmission apparatus adapted to transfer at least a portion of the plurality of content to the requesting device based at least in part on the successful authentication thereof. The transmission apparatus comprises a plug and play operable data interface and the transfer of the at least portion of content is further based on the security apparatus determining that the requesting device possesses suitable security apparatus to protect at least one aspect of the at least portion of content to be transferred.

In another variant the authentication apparatus and security apparatus comprise at least one computer program disposed on the server apparatus within a security architecture. The security architecture comprises a secure microprocessor and the server apparatus comprises at least a portion of a trusted domain TD .

In still another variant the server apparatus is granted access to the digital content based at least in part on cryptographic elements and encrypted software downloaded from a network operator entity to a secure microprocessor resident on the server apparatus.

In yet another variant the server apparatus further comprises a first interface capable of at least receiving the content from a content based network a coaxial cable interface configured to provide networking throughout at least a portion of the premises over coaxial cable present therein and a wireless access interface adapted to support at least one wireless network substantially within the premises. The content is accessible to users on both the coaxial cable network and the at least one wireless network.

In a third aspect of the invention premises content rendering apparatus configured for data communication with a content providing device over a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the rendering apparatus comprises content rendering apparatus configured to render or cause rendering of digital content authentication apparatus configured to facilitate authentication of the renderer apparatus with the providing device and content selection apparatus adapted to browse and select at least one of a plurality of digital content associated with the providing device for transmission to the rendering apparatus.

In one variant the rendering apparatus further comprises scanning apparatus the scanning apparatus configured to locate one or more content servers on the network.

In another variant the rendering apparatus further comprises a hardware and software adaptive data interface the hardware adaptation allowing for the rendering apparatus to function to at least receive data when a wired communications link has been established between the rendering apparatus and the providing device the software adaptation allowing for the rendering apparatus and the providing device to communicate without manual installation of a device driver. The transmission to the rendering apparatus is performed over the data interface. The interface can comprise for example a high speed a high speed serialized bus protocol capable of at least 800 Mbps data transfer rate such as IEEE 1394.

In still another variant the rendering apparatus further comprises a software security architecture adapted to protect at least portions of the digital content after it is transferred to the rendering apparatus. The content is encrypted before the transfer to the renderer apparatus and the security architecture comprises at least one decryption algorithm and at least a portion of a public private key pair used for decrypting the content.

In a fourth aspect of the invention a method of sharing protected content within an ad hoc network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises establishing ad hoc a communication channel between first and second entities at least the first and second entities forming the network when the channel is established authenticating at least one of i the first entity to the second entity or ii the second entity to the first entity selectively allowing at least one of the first and second entities to browse protected content stored on the other of the entities based at least in part on the authenticating and selectively transferring at least a portion of the protected content from at least one of the entities to the other of the entities based at least in part on i the authenticating and ii a request for the at least portion of the protected content issued by one of the entities to the other.

In one variant the act of establishing comprises causing the first and second entities to be placed in data communication via at least a plug and play data interface the act of authenticating is performed by the same one of the entities performing the act of selectively allowing browsing and the act of selectively transferring comprises transferring the at least portion of the content requested by the entity allowed to browse from the authenticating entity to the browsing entity over the data interface.

In another variant the act of establishing comprises causing the first and second entities to be placed in data communication via a wireless interface wherein one of the first and second entities assumes a first role and the second entity assumes a second role with respect to the communication channel. The first role comprises a master station and the second role comprises a slave station. Alternatively the first role comprises an access point AP and the second role comprises a station STA the AP providing data connectivity to at least one other entity other than the STA.

In still another variant at least one of the first and second entities is in data communication with a cable television network and the act of authenticating is performed based at least in part on information obtained from the cable television network.

In a fifth aspect of the invention a method of transfer of protected content between first and second media capable devices is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises causing at least one of the first and second devices to discover the other of the devices determining security parameters associated with one of the devices authenticating the one device with which the security parameters are associated requesting via the authenticated device that the protected content be transferred and transferring the protected content from the one of the first and second devices on which it is stored.

In one variant the act of authenticating is performed substantially independent of an external authentication entity. In another variant the first and second devices are in communication with a premises network the premises network in communication with a cable television network and the act of authenticating further comprises determining whether the device being authenticated can be granted access to the protected content based at least in part on a conditional access scheme.

In a sixth aspect of the invention a multi state content server device for use in a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the server device comprises a storage medium for storing protected content a digital processor comprising at least one computer program configured for authenticating a content requesting entity and a state machine adapted to operate the server device in one or more of a plurality of states. The server device operates in a first state and is configured to receive a request for authentication from the content requesting entity and receive a request for delivery of content from the entity. The requests for authentication and for delivery of content not causing the server device to change from the first state to another state.

In one variant the state machine comprises a virtual finite state machine FSM . In another variant the state machine comprises a deterministic state machine.

In a seventh aspect of the invention a method of doing business over a content based network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises making commercially valuable protected content selectively available to at least one user of the network in exchange for consideration permitting transfer of the content to a protected domain within a premises of the user configuring the protected domain such that it can authenticate a device communicating with the protected domain determine the security capabilities of the device and selectively transfer the protected content to the devices if i the device is authenticated and ii the security capabilities are adequate to maintain protection of the content.

In an eighth aspect of the invention a system for sharing protected digital content over a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the system comprises at least a first device in communication with the network the first device adapted to receive the protected content over an interface to a cable television network store the content on the first device authenticate a second device in communication with the premises network when the second device requests access to the digital content from the first device selectively provide access to the second device for browsing the stored digital content receive a request for transmission of at least a portion of the content and selectively transmit the at least portion of the content to the second device while maintaining the content protection.

In one variant the first device comprises a substantially secure microprocessor having a plurality of security related information stored therein the information being received from the cable television network according to a downloadable conditional access protocol at least a portion of the security related information being used to perform the authentication of the second device.

In a ninth aspect apparatus and method for extending the capabilities of the trusted or authorized service domains with a content based e.g. cable television network are disclosed.

In a tenth seventh aspect of the invention a method of sharing protected digital content between two client premises devices associated with a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises storing protected digital content at a first of the two client premises devices the first client premises device authenticating a second of the client premises devices requesting access to the protected digital content from the first client premises device the authentication comprising determining rights of the second client premises device to access the protected digital content and the first and second client premises devices thereby creating an authorized service domain ASD for maintaining protection of the protected digital content selectively providing access to the second client premises device for browsing the digital content receiving a request for transmission of at least a portion of the protected digital content and the first client premises device selectively transmitting the at least portion of the protected digital content to the second client premises device while maintaining the content protection wherein the selective transmission is conducted entirely between the two client premises devices and is irrespective of any network entities outside the premises network.

In an eleventh aspect of the invention a user premises apparatus configured as a content server for one or more devices over a user premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the user premises server apparatus comprises storage apparatus configured to store a plurality of digital content authentication apparatus configured to authenticate at least one device requesting content from the server apparatus browsing apparatus configured to enable at least one requesting device to browse a directory of available ones of the plurality of content and security apparatus configured to control access to the content by the browsing apparatus based at least in part on successful authentication of the at least one requesting device the browsing apparatus and the at least one requesting device comprising an authorized service domain ASD for protection of the content.

In a twelfth aspect of the invention a system for sharing protected digital content over a premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the system comprises at least a first device in communication with the premises network the first device configured to receive the protected content over an interface to a content delivery network store the content on the first device receive a query from a second device in communication with the premises network the query requesting security framework capabilities of the first device receive in response to an answer to the query a request for access to the content from the second device authenticate the second device when the second device requests access to the digital content from the first device the authentication comprising verification that the second device is compatible with the security framework capabilities of the first device create an authorized service domain ASD comprising the first and second devices the ASD configured to maintain protection of the protected digital content selectively provide access to the second device for browsing the stored digital content receive a request for transmission of at least a portion of the content and selectively transmit the at least portion of the content to the second device while maintaining the content protection.

In a thirteenth aspect of the invention a method of providing a premises network configured to enable sharing of plurality of protected content between a plurality of devices associated with the premises network without requiring the plurality of devices to access a remote network agent is disclosed. In one embodiment the method comprises storing the plurality of protected content at a first of the plurality of devices creating a directory of the plurality of protected content the directory indicating at least a title for individual ones of the plurality of protected content establishing an authorized service domain ASD for maintaining protection of the plurality of protected content the plurality of devices communicating within the ASD via the premises network authenticating a second of the plurality of devices to the first of the plurality of devices via the ASD to enable communication of content therebetween selectively providing access to the second of the plurality of devices to the directory the access enabling the second of the plurality of devices to browse the plurality of protected content stored at the first of the plurality of devices by at least the titles and upon receipt of a selection of at least one of the plurality of protected content transmitting the at least one of the plurality of protected content and digital copyright data relating thereto to the second of the plurality of devices wherein the transmission of the at least one of the plurality of protected content and the digital copyright data relating thereto to the second of the plurality of devices is based at least in part on the authentication and wherein the transmission of the at least one of the plurality of protected content occurs in an absence of intervention by entities outside the premises network.

In a fourteenth aspect of me invention a first consumer device in communication with a premises network for sharing protected digital content over the premises network is disclosed. In one embodiment the first device comprises a first interface configured to receive the protected content from a content delivery network a second interface configured to communicate with a second device in the premises network a storage entity configured to store the protected content a processor comprising at least one computer program configured to receive from the second device a request for security framework capabilities of the first device provide the security framework capabilities of the first device to the second device via the second interface receive a request for access to the protected content from the second device authenticate the second device as being within an authorized service domain ASD transmit a directory of the protected content stored at the first device to the second device for browsing thereof receive a selection of an individual one of the protected content and selectively transmit the individual one of the protected content to the second device while maintaining the content protection.

These and other aspects of the invention shall become apparent when considered in light of the disclosure provided herein.

As used herein the term application refers generally to a unit of executable software that implements a certain functionality or theme. The themes of applications vary broadly across any number of disciplines and functions such as on demand content management e commerce transactions brokerage transactions home entertainment calculator etc. and one application may have more than one theme. The unit of executable software generally runs in a predetermined environment for example the unit could comprise a downloadable Java Xlet that runs within the JavaTV environment.

As used herein the terms client device and end user device include but are not limited to set top boxes e.g. DSTBs personal computers PCs and minicomputers whether desktop laptop or otherwise and mobile devices such as handheld computers PDAs personal media devices PMDs such as for example an iPod or Motorola ROKR LG Chocolate and smartphones.

As used herein the term codec refers to an video audio or other data coding and or decoding algorithm process or apparatus including without limitation those of the MPEG e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 etc. Real RealVideo etc. AC 3 audio DiVX XViD ViDX Windows Media Video e.g. WMV 7 8 or 9 ATI Video codec or VC 1 SMPTE standard 421M families.

As used herein the term computer program or software is meant to include any sequence or human or machine cognizable steps which perform a function. Such program may be rendered in virtually any programming language or environment including for example C C Fortran COBOL PASCAL assembly language markup languages e.g. HTML SGML XML VOXML and the like as well as object oriented environments such as the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Java including J2ME Java Beans etc. Binary Runtime Environment BREW and the like.

As used herein the term conditional access refers to any access control scheme whether implemented in hardware software or firmware or combinations thereof including without limitation members of the Powerkey family Powerkey Book 2 Powerkey Book 3 etc. NDS including VideoGuard mVideoGuard etc. ANSI SCTE Standard 52 2003 DVS 04 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and Motorola General Instrument DigiCipher family DigiCipher II etc. . These can be implemented using for example the so called CableCard plug in security module access technology a downloadable CA system DCAS or otherwise.

The terms Customer Premises Equipment CPE and host device refer to any type of electronic equipment located within a customer s or user s premises and connected to a network. The term host device refers generally and without limitation to a terminal device that has access to digital television content via a satellite cable or terrestrial network. The host device functionality may be integrated into a digital television DTV set. The term customer premises equipment CPE includes without limitation electronic equipment such as set top boxes e.g. DSTBs televisions cable modems CMs embedded multimedia terminal adapters eMTAs whether stand alone or integrated with other devices Digital Video Recorders DVR gateways or gateway storage devices Furnace and ITV Personal Computers.

As used herein the term database refers generally to one or more tangible or virtual data storage locations which may or may not be physically co located with each other or other system components.

As used herein the term display means any type of device adapted to display information including without limitation CRTs LCDs TFTs plasma displays LEDs incandescent and fluorescent devices. Display devices may also include less dynamic devices such as for example printers e ink devices and the like.

As used herein the term DVI digital video interface refers generally to any type of interface e.g. hardware and or software adapted to provide interface and or conversion between different formats or domains including without limitation interfaces compliant with the Digital Display Working Group DDWG DVI specification e.g. DVI A DVI D and DVI I . For example using a DVI connector and port a digital signal sent to an analog monitor is converted into an analog signal if the monitor is digital such as a flat panel display no conversion is necessary. A DVI output is an option in OpenCable compliant hardware that provides a high definition TV HDTV output which includes copy protection.

As used herein the term DVR digital video recorder refers generally to any type or recording mechanism and or software environment whereby content sent over a network can be recorded and selectively recalled. Such DVR may be dedicated in nature or part of a non dedicated or multi function system.

As used herein the term DOCSIS refers to any of the existing or planned variants of the Data Over Cable Services Interface Specification including for example DOCSIS versions 1.0 1.1 2.0 and 3.0. DOCSIS version 1.0 is a standard and protocol for internet access using a digital cable network. DOCSIS 1.1 is interoperable with DOCSIS 1.0 and has data rate and latency guarantees VoIP as well as improved security compared to DOCSIS 1.0. DOCSIS 2.0 is interoperable with 1.0 and 1.1 yet provides a wider upstream band 6.4 MHz as well as new modulation formats including TDMA and CDMA. It also provides symmetric services 30 Mbps upstream .

As used herein the term head end refers generally to a networked system controlled by an operator e.g. an MSO that distributes programming to MSO clientele using client devices. Such programming may include literally any information source receiver including inter alia free to air TV channels pay TV channels interactive TV and the Internet. DSTBs may literally take on any configuration and can be retail devices meaning that consumers may or may not obtain their DSTBs from the MSO exclusively. Accordingly it is anticipated that MSO networks may have client devices from multiple vendors and these client devices will have widely varying hardware capabilities. Multiple regional head ends may be in the same or different cities.

As used herein the term integrated circuit IC refers to any type of device having any level of integration including without limitation ULSI VLSI and LSI and irrespective of process or base materials including without limitation Si SiGe CMOS and GaAs . ICs may include for example memory devices e.g. DRAM SRAM DDRAM EEPROM Flash ROM digital processors SoC devices FPGAs ASICs ADCs DACs transceivers memory controllers and other devices as well as any combinations thereof.

As used herein the terms Internet and internet are used interchangeably to refer to inter networks including without limitation the Internet.

As used herein the term memory includes any type of integrated circuit or other storage device adapted for storing digital data including without limitation ROM. PROM EEPROM DRAM SDRAM DDR 2 SDRAM EDO FPMS RLDRAM SRAM flash memory e.g. NAND NOR and PSRAM.

As used herein the terms microprocessor and digital processor are meant generally to include all types of digital processing devices including without limitation digital signal processors DSPs reduced instruction set computers RISC general purpose CISC processors microprocessors gate arrays e.g. FPGAs PLDs reconfigurable compute fabrics RCFs array processors and application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Such digital processors may be contained on a single unitary IC die or distributed across multiple components.

As used herein the terms MSO or multiple systems operator refer to a cable satellite or terrestrial network provider having infrastructure required to deliver services including programming and data over those mediums.

As used herein the terms network and bearer network refer generally to any type of telecommunications or data network including without limitation hybrid fiber coax HFC networks satellite networks telco networks and data networks including MANs WANs LANs WLANs internets and intranets . Such networks or portions thereof may utilize any one or more different topologies e.g. ring bus star loop etc. transmission media e.g. wired RF cable RF wireless millimeter wave optical etc. and or communications or networking protocols e.g. SONET DOCSIS IEEE Std. 802.3 ATM X.25 Frame Relay 3GPP 3GPP2 WAP SIP UDP FTP RTP RTCP H.323 etc. .

As used herein the terms network agent and network entity refers to any network entity whether software firmware and or hardware based adapted to perform one or more specific purposes. For example a network agent or entity may comprise a computer program running in server belonging to a network operator which is in communication with one or more processes on a CPE or other device.

As used herein the term network interface refers to any signal data or software interface with a component network or process including without limitation those of the Firewire e.g. FW400 FW800 etc. USB e.g. USB2 Ethernet e.g. 10 100 10 100 1000 Gigabit Ethernet 10 Gig E etc. MoCA Serial ATA e.g. SATA e SATA SATAII Ultra ATA DMA Coaxsys e.g. TVnet radio frequency tuner e.g. in band or OOB cable modem etc. WiFi 802.11a b g n WiMAX 802.16 PAN 802.15 or IrDA families.

As used herein the term QAM refers to modulation schemes used for sending signals over cable networks. Such modulation scheme might use any constellation level e.g. QPSK QAM 16 QAM 64 QAM 256 etc. depending on details of a cable network. A QAM may also refer to a physical channel modulated according to said schemes.

As used herein the terms render and renderer refer to any device process or entity which utilizes content for without limitation. display execution or playback. For example a renderer might comprise a DVR television monitor PC mobile device with display capability laptop computer iPod or even an MP3 player.

As used herein the terms security framework and security package refer generally to without limitation one of more of implementation guidelines security policies application programming interfaces APIs encryption or scrambling algorithms and cryptographic element e.g. symmetric or asymmetric key generation and management algorithms.

As used herein the term server refers to any computerized component system or entity regardless of form which is adapted to provide data files applications content or other services to one or more other devices or entities on a computer network.

As used herein the terms PnP and Plug and Play refer generally to a capability wherein devices can communicate when first placed in communication according to a substantially known or standardized capability. Such communication is generally without requiring reconfiguration or manual installation of device drivers. One exemplary embodiment of such PnP capability is the Universal PnP UPnP technology set forth in UPnP Device Architecture Version 1.0 dated Jun. 8 2000 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As used herein the term user interface refers to without limitation any visual graphical tactile audible sensory or other means of providing information to and or receiving information from a user or other entity.

As used herein the term WiFi refers to without limitation any of the variants of IEEE Std. 802.11 or related standards including 802.11 a b g i n.

As used herein the term wireless means any wireless signal data communication or other interface including without limitation WiFi Bluetooth 3G HSDPA HSUPA TDMA CDMA e.g. IS 95A WCDMA etc. FHSS DSSS GSM PAN 802.15 WiMAX 802.16 802.20 narrowband FDMA OFDM PCS DCS analog cellular CDPD satellite systems millimeter wave or microwave systems acoustic and infrared i.e. IrDA .

In one salient aspect the present invention provides a mechanism for devices connected to a home network to exchange information and ultimately share or transfer protected content including for example audiovisual or multimedia content applications or data in a substantially peer to peer fashion and without resort to a central security server or other such entity. Authorized browsing of the content present on one device by another device is also provided.

In one exemplary embodiment an application level message exchange functionality is described using this message exchange the premises devices can advertise their security capabilities relating to e.g. protected content and query other devices for their security capabilities. This query can be performed for example by identifying security frameworks or security packages that a device is capable of handling. These frameworks or packages become critical in inter alia a heterogeneous security environment. For example implementations of security frameworks from different vendors can be markedly different and may or may not interoperate such as where two different vendors use the same scrambling algorithms e.g. Data Encryption Standard DES triple DES AES etc. that cannot interoperate because the details of their key management are different.

Accordingly in one aspect the present invention discloses a security architecture and associated logic residing on two or more different client devices or domains wherein security information and ultimately protected content can be exchanged without resort to a centralized facility such as a cable head end process or entity. For example in one embodiment a server CPE and a renderer CPE are disposed within a premises network. Message exchanges between the sever and renderer identify and validate each entity and its security package or framework capabilities as well as other capabilities that may be necessary to effect the exchange and use of the protected content data or application e.g. the presence of an appropriate codec algorithm network interface etc. . These exchanges are all effectively automatic and transparent to the user thereby making device location and identification content data application exchange and browsing seamless.

The message exchanges between the server and renderer CPE may follow the syntax and guidelines of industry wide interoperability standards such as UPnP and or may be specific to a premises networking standard e.g. Multimedia over Cable Alliance MOCA or Home Phone Line Network HPNA specifications WiFi Ethernet and so forth . In this capacity the protocol of the present invention is largely premises network and interface agnostic thereby increasing its flexibility.

Advantageously the present invention can be seamlessly implemented using existing security frameworks and constructs such as the Authorized Service Domain ASD framework thereby extending these frameworks with additional capabilities and services including local e.g. premises network discovery browsing and content streaming or transfer . Security information transferred between entities may be passed via an existing in band security protocol or in another embodiment requesting authentication and passing in only a HostID or comparable data.

Moreover the exemplary embodiment of the invention is agnostic to the type of conditional access CA system used e.g. DCAS M Card CableCard etc. and can even be used with future CA implementations or paradigms.

The present invention can be distinguished from prior art peer to peer approaches in that inter alia it is conducted entirely between two or more entities that have been authenticated and are part of a trusted or authorized service domain thereby assuring that the participants to any transaction e.g. content browsing streaming or download are authenticated and authorized to browse or receive the content. Moreover exemplary embodiments of the invention are implemented according to an entirely dynamic e.g. plug and play component interface paradigm thereby obviating many networking protocols and related compatibility issues associated with peer to peer communication over the Internet or other such WANs.

Exemplary embodiments of the apparatus and methods of the present invention are now described in detail. While these exemplary embodiments are described in the context of the aforementioned hybrid fiber coax HFC cable system architecture having an multimedia specific operator MSO digital networking capability and plurality of client devices CPE the general principles and advantages of the invention may be extended to other types of networks and architectures whether broadband narrowband wired or wireless or otherwise the following therefore being merely exemplary in nature.

It will also be appreciated that while described generally in the context of a consumer i.e. home end user domain the present invention may be readily adapted to other types of environments e.g. commercial enterprise government military etc. as well. Myriad other applications are possible.

Also while certain aspects are described primarily in the context of the well known Internet Protocol described in inter alia RFC 791 and 2460 it will be appreciated that the present invention may utilize other types of protocols and in fact bearer networks to include other internets and intranets to implement the described functionality.

Lastly it will be recognized that while described primarily in the context of a consumer or enterprise premises having a prescribed geographic scope or boundaries the invention is in no way limited to any such premises description. For example a premises as used herein could refer to a psychologically proximate premises e.g. a group of entities or locations that are not physically proximate but rather logically proximate with respect to a user such as that user s home office and car. Similarly a premises could refer to psychologically proximate devices irrespective of their physical location e.g. my cellular phone my DVR etc. or even psychologically proximate users my girlfriend my mother my boss etc. again irrespective of their location.

The various components of the exemplary content delivery network include i one or more data and application origination points ii one or more content sources iii one or more application distribution servers iv one or more VOD servers and v consumer premises equipment CPE . The distribution server s VOD servers and CPE s are connected via a bearer e.g. HFC network . A simple architecture comprising one of each of the aforementioned components is shown in for clarity although it will be recognized that comparable architectures with multiple origination points distribution servers VOD servers and or CPE devices as well as different network topologies may be utilized consistent with the invention. For example the head end architecture of described in greater detail below may be used.

The data application origination point comprises any medium that allows data and or applications such as a VOD based or Watch TV application or other application to be transferred to a distribution server . This can include for example a third party data source application vendor website CD ROM external network interface mass storage device e.g. RAID system etc. Such transference may be automatic initiated upon the occurrence of one or more specified events such as the receipt of a request packet or ACK performed manually or accomplished in any number of other modes readily recognized by those of ordinary skill.

The application distribution server comprises a computer system where such applications can enter the network system. Distribution servers are well known in the networking arts and accordingly not described further herein.

The VOD server comprises a computer system where on demand content can be received from one or more of the aforementioned data sources and enter the network system. These servers may generate the content locally or alternatively act as a gateway or intermediary from a distant source.

The CPE includes any equipment in the customers premises or other locations whether local or remote to the distribution server that can be accessed by a distribution server or other network entity. Exemplary embodiments of the CPE of the invention are described subsequently herein with respect to and . It may also include a premises or home local area network as described subsequently herein with respect to .

Referring now to one exemplary embodiment of a network head end architecture useful with the present invention is described. As shown in the head end architecture comprises typical head end components and services including billing module subscriber management system SMS and CPE configuration management module cable modem termination system CMTS and OOB system as well as LAN s placing the various components in data communication with one another. It will be appreciated that while a bar or bus LAN topology is illustrated any number of other arrangements as previously referenced e.g. ring star etc. may be used consistent with the invention. It will also be appreciated that the head end configuration depicted in is high level conceptual architecture and that each MSO may have multiple head ends deployed using custom architectures see e.g. and associated discussion presented subsequently herein .

The architecture of further includes a multiplexer encrypter modulator MEM coupled to the HFC network adapted to condition content for transmission over the network. The distribution servers are coupled to the LAN which provides access to the MEM and network via one or more file servers . The VOD servers are coupled to the LAN as well although other architectures may be employed such as for example where the VOD servers are associated with a core switching device such as an 802.3z Gigabit Ethernet device . As previously described information is carried across multiple channels. Thus the head end must be adapted to acquire the information for the carried channels from various sources. Typically the channels being delivered from the head end to the CPE downstream are multiplexed together in the head end and sent to neighborhood hubs via a variety of interposed network components.

A digital rights management DRM server not shown may also reside at the head end and used for serving DRM requests from downstream devices such as the CPE . The exemplary DRM server comprises a computer system where the security and encryption aspects of content transferred over the network are managed. The content servers described above may implement encryption and CA technology in conjunction with the DRM server such that the content made available over the network can be received and decoded by specific CPE only.

Content e.g. audio video etc. is provided in each downstream in band channel associated with the relevant service group. To communicate with the head end or intermediary node e.g. hub server the CPE may use the out of band OOB or DOCSIS channels and associated protocols. The OCAP 1.0 2.0 3.0 and subsequent specifications provide for exemplary networking protocols both downstream and upstream although the invention is in no way limited to these approaches.

It will also be recognized that the multiple servers broadcast VOD or otherwise can be used and disposed at two or more different locations if desired such as being part of different server farms . These multiple servers can be used to feed one service group or alternatively different service groups. In a simple architecture a single server is used to feed one or more service groups. In another variant multiple servers located at the same location are used to feed one or more service groups. In yet another variant multiple servers disposed at different location are used to feed one or more service groups.

As shown in the network of comprises a fiber coax arrangement wherein the output of the MEM of is transferred to the optical domain such as via an optical transceiver at the head end or further downstream . The optical domain signals are then distributed to a fiber node which further distributes the signals over a distribution network to a plurality of local servicing nodes . This provides an effective 1 N expansion of the network at the local service end.

Switching architectures allow improved efficiency of bandwidth use for ordinary digital broadcast programs. Ideally the subscriber will be unaware of any difference between programs delivered using a switched network and ordinary streaming broadcast delivery.

Co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 956 688 filed Sep. 20 2001 and entitled Technique For Effectively Providing Program Material In A Cable Television System incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describes one exemplary broadcast switched digital architecture useful with the present invention although it will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that other approaches and architectures may be substituted.

In addition to broadcast content e.g. video programming the systems of also deliver Internet data services using the Internet protocol IP although other protocols and transport mechanisms of the type well known in the digital communication art may be substituted. One exemplary delivery paradigm comprises delivering MPEG based video content with the video transported to user PCs or IP based STBs over the aforementioned DOCSIS channels comprising MPEG or other video codec such as H.264 or AVC over IP over MPEG. That is the higher layer MPEG or other encoded content is encapsulated using an IP protocol which then utilizes an MPEG packetization of the type well known in the art for delivery over the RF channels. In this fashion a parallel delivery mode to the normal broadcast delivery exists i.e. delivery of video content both over traditional downstream QAMs to the tuner of the user s STB or other receiver device e.g. converged device as discussed subsequently herein for viewing on the television and also as packetized IP data over the DOCSIS QAMs to the user s PC or other IP enabled device via the user s cable modem.

Referring again to the IP packets associated with Internet services are received by edge switch and forwarded to the cable modem termination system CMTS . The CMTS examines the packets and forwards packets intended for the local network to the edge switch . Other packets are discarded or routed to another component.

The edge switch forwards the packets receive from the CMTS to the QAM modulator which transmits the packets on one or more physical QAM modulated RF channels to the CPEs. The IP packets are typically transmitted on RF channels that are different that the RF channels used for the broadcast video and audio programming although this is not a requirement. The CPE are each configured to monitor the particular assigned RF channel such as via a port or socket ID address or other such mechanism for IP packets intended for the subscriber premises address that they serve.

Co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 013 665 filed Dec. 15 2004 and entitled Method and Apparatus for High Bandwidth Data Transmission in Content Based Networks incorporated herein by reference in its entirety describes yet another delivery model for the aforementioned content based on a high speed VOD based infrastructure.

It will be appreciated that the content delivery network used with the premises distribution functions of the present invention may also include a downloadable conditional access CA DRM or trusted domain TD apparatus such as those described in co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 584 208 filed Oct. 20 2006 and entitled Downloadable Security And Protection Methods And Apparatus incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such download apparatus is useful at inter a ia the head end or distribution hub of a cable network for implementing a download paradigm for legacy or newly developed CA TD and DRM software and cryptographic protection schemes. This allows the network operator and even the third party content provider by proxy to exert additional control on viewing reproduction and migration of content distributed over the network. In one embodiment these capabilities comprise downloadable personalized software modules images and an associated decryption key that facilitates decryption of the downloaded software images. In contrast to prior art approaches of merely encrypting the content itself such as via a DES or AES algorithm via a symmetric or asymmetric key approach the exemplary embodiments referenced above allow for the download of secure software images which may be used to inter alia ensure security of the downloaded images and also migrate protected content to other platforms in the user or client domain so as to extend the trusted or authorized service domain. Advantageously outside of the conditional access system CAS the personalized software image is never rendered in an unprotected form or otherwise made accessible.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of a generalized premises content distribution apparatus according to the invention is described in detail. As shown in the exemplary content distribution apparatus comprises a premises local area network PLAN having a plurality of entities associated therewith. It will be appreciated that the PLAN of is in no way tied to a particular topology or transport media and in fact may be formed and modified ad hoc e.g. ad hoc formation of WiFi AP STA network or Bluetooth Master Slave bonding or a PAN and or may comprise any number of different transport mechanisms. The PLAN may also simply comprise two devices e.g. server and renderer in communication with one another.

The various components directly or indirectly communicating with the exemplary PLAN include i one or more Premises Gateways PGs ii one or more server consumer premises equipment CPE functioning as a content source or server in the PLAN and iii one or more renderer CPE functioning as a renderer of content. It will be appreciated that a single device or entity may also switch roles i.e. from server to renderer or vice versa and may carry out both functions i.e. server and renderer albeit not necessarily for the same process or thread. Moreover role switching can occur as part of the underlying transport or PHY functions e.g. a WiFi AP STA role switch or Bluetooth Master Slave role switch while the server renderer functions described herein are preserved.

A simple architecture comprising one of each of the aforementioned components is shown in for clarity although it will be recognized that comparable architectures with multiple components as well as different network topologies may be utilized consistent with the invention.

The PG includes a hardware platform that is generally installed either inside or outside of the premises. The PG platform is connected to the bearer network e.g. HFC satellite network Telco DSL network etc. via an appropriate interface such as a coaxial cable or DOCSIS connection a digital subscriber line DSL telephony connection an Internet Protocol Television IPTV connection over copper wire a satellite receiver coupled to an antenna etc. The PG is also connected on its back end to other equipment that is installed in the premises via a PLAN interface. This PG PLAN interface may take literally any form whether wired or wireless and in fact the functions of the PG and the PLAN may be integrated into one device if desired. For example the PLAN might operate using the Ethernet IEEE Std. 802.3 protocol and hence the interface might comprise a 10 100 1000 10 Gig E NIC of the type well known in the art. Alternatively the PLAN might operate according to a wireless e.g. WiFi topology and hence the PLAN interface would comprise a WiFi interface card. The PLAN might also utilize the indigenous premises coaxial cable as a transport medium thereby necessitating a coaxial RF interface and so forth.

In some implementations the PG might function as the PLAN content server described in greater detail below or a proxy server that provides connectivity and address ability to PLAN devices for the bearer network. A PG may also be connected to more than one bearer network and or may be connected to multiple PLANs such as on different physical channels. For example a PG may be connected to some in home devices over a wireless connection and some other in home devices over a wired connection such as a telephone line power line or indigenous coaxial cable.

The present invention accordingly contemplates various implementations of the premises gateway functionality. For example one exemplary converged device useful with the present invention is described in co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 378 129 filed Mar. 16 2006 and entitled Methods and Apparatus for Centralized Content and Data Delivery incorporated herein by reference in its entirety although it will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that other devices and approaches may be substituted.

The PLAN content server comprises a hardware software platform in communication with the PLAN with control over access to stored content. The content can be stored using one or more storage media such as a hard drive HDD flash memory card or USB key optical disc memory array RAID etc. The storage may be present in the box or attached external to the server over a dedicated or shared connection. In some deployments the content server and the PG may be implemented on the same physical platform. In such as case the content server PG might take the form of e.g. a DVR or a multi room DVR device that interfaces to one or more distribution networks and one or more PLANs . It may also comprise one or more high speed interfaces e.g. USB 2.0 IEEE Std. 1394 Firewire etc. over which plug and play functionality may be implemented.

Similarly the local server may merely act as a proxy for an upstream device connected to multiple distribution networks. One such device is disclosed in a co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 440 490 filed May 24 2006 and entitled Personal Content Server Apparatus and Methods incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In one embodiment the device comprises a personal content server located e.g. at the head end of the bearer cable network or at a BSA switching hub this server distributes content to the remote requesting location s thereby eliminating repetitious traffic to and from subscriber s premises to fulfill the requests for remote content delivery.

It will be appreciated that the PLAN content distribution architecture of the present invention can also be used in a complementary or layered fashion with other content acquisition management and control technologies. For example the methods and apparatus described in co pending and co owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 080 693 filed Mar. 14 2005 entitled Method And Apparatus For Network Content Downloading and Recording incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be used consistent with the present invention to provide network users with the ability to purchase and record content to a physical medium while also obeying the security policies imposed by the relevant security architecture e.g. TD or ASD . This disclosure also provides mechanisms for the inclusion of digital copyright data within the recorded data content such as well known digital watermarking data of the type authorized under the United States Digital Millennium Copyright Act DMCA . For example Digimarc SysCoP EIKONAmark and other similar commercially available watermarking approaches can be used. Various types of steganographic approaches may also be employed consistent with the invention in order to enforce copyright and provide the copyright owner with accountability and or trace ability of reproduced versions of their copyrighted material. If desired these approaches can be readily coded into the software or firmware of the recording device which may be either the server or renderer such that the inclusion of this data in content transferred between a server and renderer on the PLAN is completely transparent to the user and does not require any user or MSO content provider intervention.

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of the generalized methodology of secure content transfer is described. As shown in the methodology comprises first allowing one device to discover another device step or both devices to discover each other. As previously described the two devices may form a client server e.g. renderer server relationship although other relationships are possible. This discovery can occur via any number of approaches including for example i one device advertising its capabilities unsolicited onto the PLAN e.g. a broadcast message or ii response to a general or broadcast inquiry from the other device or its proxy.

A message exchange protocol is next used to identify security capabilities and requirements of one or both devices in order to authenticate step . In a one way authentication the renderer can supply its information to the server the latter which can selectively authenticate or not authenticate the renderer. The renderer conducts no authentication of the server. This approach is highly streamlined but also provides no protection against a server spoofing man in the middle or other type of surreptitious attack intended to solicit information from the requesting renderer. Alternatively a two way authentication requires each device server and renderer to authenticate each other thereby assuring that both devices are authentic.

Messages sent between the devices can be used to identify compatible security packages that each device possesses e.g. AES or DES algorithms public private key pairs support for certain security protocols etc.

Once authentication and security capability determination is complete browsing of one device by the other e.g. browsing of the server s content by the renderer or each device of the other is performed step . This browsing may include review of titles and optionally other associated information e.g. DRM or copyright requirements file creation date size codec format etc. . Such browsing functions may also allow for preview of the content by the requesting device such as via a short pre stored trailer or sample of the content or simply accessing the content file itself for a limited duration of time. Various preview technologies known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be used consistent with the invention.

The selecting device e.g. renderer then indicates the choice of a particular content element e.g. movie MP3 file etc. title for viewing per step .

Once this selection is communicated to the server device the server then determines the requesting device s authorization to receive the selected content step which may not necessarily coincide with the requesting device s permissions to browse or preview content. For example a content owner or MSO might restrict unlimited or full access to content to certain selected populations of prospective users e.g. Time Warner Cable subscribers whereas a larger subset of potential users of the PLAN can browse and preview without having full access. This access differentiation can be used as the basis of a business model i.e. enticing prospective subscribers or one time purchasers by providing unlimited teasers or previews.

If full access to the content is allowed the selected content is formatted if required e.g. compressed recoded decrypted etc. per step and then transferred over the designated communication channel from the serving device to the requesting device step .

Referring now to an exemplary message exchange between a server CPE and a renderer CPE is described according to one embodiment of the method of . As shown in messages are first exchanged between Advertise Capabilities function of the server and Discover Devices function of the renderer CPE. Once this message exchange is completed successfully the Authenticate function of the server CPE and the Authenticate function of the renderer CPE exchange messages to identify compatible security packages that each device can work with. Once this step is completed successfully the Browse Control function on the server will allow the Browse function of the renderer to browse through secure content titles that can be made available to the renderer. Once the renderer indicates the choice of a particular title for viewing the Content Selection functions enforces DRM constraints and decides whether viewing of the content as requested by the renderer is allowed or not. If the viewing is allowed the Transfer Parameter negotiation functions of the server and of the renderer may choose appropriate transmission parameters such as the transport protocol e.g. TCP user datagram protocol UDP port identification packet rate of transmission payload length etc. Once this negotiation is completed the media transfer function of the server will then transfer the secure content to the media receiver on the renderer.

Generally speaking before a renderer CPE can browse and request secure content from another device the renderer CPE should know which devices implement the security framework e.g. Trusted Domain or Authorized Service Domain . A renderer CPE can make such a determination by using any of a number of different techniques. For example the renderer CPE may have a priori knowledge regarding identity of other CPEs that implement the prescribed security framework. Such knowledge can be programmed into the renderer CPE via offline techniques such as factory programming or providing device identification from a network agent or input by user input. A renderer CPE can also gather this information by performing an online technique such as searching the network for devices that respond and report the requisite security framework.

As shown in a renderer may scan the PLAN or multiple PLANs to which it is connected looking for server CPE that implement the desired security framework step . Once the renderer locates a server that implements this framework it authenticates itself with the server step . In some implementations the renderer may achieve the authentication by unicast message exchanges with each server device in the network. In other implementations the renderer may be able to use multicast or broadcast messaging technique to perform the authentication with multiple servers in the PLAN. Note that the authentication step of may be performed without any user input to the renderer CPE or alternatively may require user input in the form of password insertion of a security device such as an authentication card or dongle in the renderer communication with a wireless identification device etc.

Once the renderer is authenticated with a server a user can browse secure content step available on the server by using the renderer CPE or another control device to navigate through the titles. When a user picks a particular title for viewing the renderer performs the content selection step to request viewing of the selected title from the server. Upon successful completion of this step the server will provide the requested content to the renderer CPE which in turn present the content to the user.

The server first stores secure content using a security mechanism such that the content and directory listing are available only to authenticated requests step . The content may or may not be encrypted or otherwise protected when stored on the server CPE.

When the server receives a capability query from another device on the network it advertises its own security framework capabilities to the requesting device step . In some implementations the server CPE may be configured to support more than one vendor s security frameworks. Similarly in other implementations the server may be able to support different security frameworks on different PLANs to which it is connected. For example a server CPE may support one vendor s security framework on an in home coaxial cable PLAN while also supporting another vendor s security framework on a residential phone line HPN or HomePlug network.

The server sends out a message per step that contains sufficient details to allow the requesting device to make determination about whether it can interoperate with the security framework implemented on the server device. The requesting device will typically respond to the security framework capability advertisement by requesting authentication from the server device. When the server receives the authentication request it will verify security framework e.g. TD or ASD credentials presented by the renderer device and respond step . Credential verification may comprise for example connection to a head end or third party entity e.g. via DOCSIS or other channel such as a controller or DAC.DNCS device as well as verification via a home account These credentials may also be cached onto a local or remote server if desired even to include a server disposed at a hub site or node other than the head end.

When the credentials are verified the server CPE can service a content browsing request from a renderer step . When the server receives this request it verifies that it has previously authorized step the device requesting access to the TD or ASD directory. The server will reject the browsing request if the requesting device is not previously authorized by e.g. sending an appropriate message to that device.

In some implementations the server may put limits on a renderer s ability to browse content on the server. For example the server may authenticate and grant the renderer the ability to browse secure content for a fixed time window after which the renderer must re authenticate itself. In another implementation the server may require the renderer to re authenticate itself when changing content directories or genres or parental ratings of the content reestablishing a physical layer or logical connection etc. The server enforces DRM rules per step against a renderer device that has been previously authorized in step and has previously browsed content in a TD or ASD directory step . The DRM rules enforced by the server include rules regarding whether the client has access authorization whether the client has copy protection authorization and so on.

Security information transferred between entities may be passed via an existing in band security protocol or in another embodiment requesting authentication and passing in only a HT ID

Referring now to one exemplary embodiment of a server or renderer CPE according to the present invention is described. As previously noted server or render CPE can be identical and even perform both functions i.e. serving content and rendering content at different times or at the same time for different processes threads .

As shown in the simplified diagram of the device generally comprises a computerized system e.g. embedded DSTB converged premises device etc. having an RF front end for interface with the delivery network or any interposed gateway devices of digital processor s storage device and a plurality of interfaces e.g. video audio interfaces IEEE 1394 Firewire USB serial parallel ports etc. for interface with other end user apparatus such as televisions personal electronics computers WiFi or other network hubs routers etc.

Other components which may be utilized within the device deleted from for simplicity include various processing layers e.g. DOCSIS MAC or DAVIC OOB channel MPEG etc. as well as media processors and other specialized SoC or ASIC devices. A separate cable modem e.g. DOCSIS tuner may also be included for receiving downstream cable modem signals over the coaxial cable. The CPE may also comprise an integrated HD decoder thereby relieving any connected monitors or other devices from the requirement of having such a decoder. These additional components and functionality are well known to those of ordinary skill in the cable and embedded system fields and accordingly not described further herein.

Alternatively the CPE may comprise a head less configuration wherein the only user interaction with the device occurs over a network connection e.g. in a PVR like fashion.

The CPE of can also be provided with an OCAP compliant application and Java based middleware which inter alia manages the operation of the device and applications running thereon. It will be recognized by those of ordinary skill that myriad different device and software architectures may be used consistent with the tuning and channel request functions of the present invention the device of being merely exemplary. For example different middlewares e.g. MHP ARIB ACAP or proprietary may be used in place of the OCAP middleware of the illustrated embodiment.

The CPE may further contain application layer programs that allow interactivity with other devices on the network. Examples of such programs include UPNP application a program guide and so on. The renderer CPE may be implemented such that a user can control the renderer directly or over the network. The direct control to a user may be in the form of a remote control control switches and buttons e.g. volume control knob . When the renderer CPE is controlled over the network a user may be able to configure the device by accessing its controls via a network connection such as via a remote or local PC etc. While in some implementations one network may used for accessing the device for controlling purpose and another network may be used for content transfer typically the same network PLAN will be used to achieve both the tasks.

The exemplary CPE further comprises a personal media application which allows a user to manage his personal media tasks. Such management includes but is not limited to the ability to browse through programs stored locally or on a server to see which programs are available for viewing. Previewing and similar extended browsing functionality may also be provided. In the virtual PVR or network PVR scenarios described elsewhere herein such programming or content may be stored on a server located at the head end with the server CPE acting effectively as its proxy. The personal media application may also be made responsive to a network side application that queries the CPE to check on the program titles stored on the CPE .

As previously noted either of the CPE of the invention may be embodied as a multi function or converged premises device such as that described in co owned and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 378 129 filed Mar. 16 2006 previously incorporated herein. This exemplary configuration comprises a remotely manageable premises device that inter alia acts as a centralized client networking platform providing gateway services such as network management as well as traditional content and high speed data delivery functions. The device also acts as the shared internet e.g. Internet connection for all devices in the premises via a cable modem or other such interface sharing personal and DVR content such as video music and photos and any associated metadata throughout the premises and providing both a wired and wireless network in the home. Telephony services utilizing e.g. embedded multimedia terminal adapter eMTA and or WiFi architectures may also be provided via the device these services can make use of the network operator s indigenous VoIP or comparable telephony capability if desired thereby providing an even more unified service environment. The converged premises device can also provide a trusted domain for content or data as well as allowing a subscriber mobility in the home by not limiting content or data to any one viewing access location. For example content or data may be accessed on any monitor in the premises as well as on a PC or personal media device PMD .

A wired home network utilizing existing coaxial cable in the premises is also created using e.g. an Ethernet to coaxial bridge technology based on the MoCA specification. This will allow existing devices and DVRs to connect and share content with the CPE and also allows the network operator e.g. MSO to control and manage the premises coaxial network.

The CPE is also advantageously accessible via any remote device with intemetworking e.g. Internet capability thereby allowing personal content to be accessed by the user from outside the premises.

It will be appreciated that the CPE e.g. the converged device previously described may also have and maintain its own security credentials which permit it to interact with the TD ASD.

Referring now to methodologies for locating and authenticating trusted devices on the PLAN are described.

As shown in the generalized methodology comprises a first entity scanning the network for other entities step . This may be accomplished by e.g. sending a unicast or multicast e.g. broadcast message monitoring the physical medium for indications of other entities e.g. CSMA CD signals etc. or yet other techniques. The first and other entities may comprise either the server or renderer CPE previously described herein or merely just two or more entities on the PLAN not necessarily acting as either a server or renderer such a where the entity is acting as a network proxy for the server or renderer or merely an intermediary node such as a gateway or router .

Per step the scanning entity determines whether any other entities are present based on its actions of step and if so next attempts to contact one or more of the detected entities in order to authenticate itself and request services step .

Next the first or contacting entity issues a communication e.g. message to the other receiving entity or entities to determine i the existence of the other entity and or ii the protocol or communication capabilities of the other entity step .

Depending on whether the communicating entity receives a response to its communication or not step it can then optionally invoke other communication modes or channels if available to attempt to contact the other entity step and receive a response. If successful the method will continue wherein the communicating entity then attempts to authenticate itself to the responding entity step of . If not the communicating entity will iterate or try additional channels until either communication is established step or a timeout failure condition is reached such as having no additional channels per step at which point the. process terminates step .

As shown in the ASD enabled client renderer sends a message to the other devices on the PLAN to find out if any other ASD capable devices are present on the PLAN. This message may either comprise e.g. a proprietary format or alternatively an industry standard format. If the ASD renderer uses a proprietary format it may be disadvantaged from the perspective that only devices recognizing that particular proprietary format will be able to meaningfully respond to the query. Alternatively the use of an industry standard messaging mechanism ensures interoperability with different vendor s products. The aforementioned UPnP is one such example of a messaging protocol.

If the ASD client implements the UPnP device capabilities discovery messages it can interoperate with a large number of different vendor s products that implement the UPnP messaging protocol. Furthermore because this protocol is an application layer protocol the same message can be used over different PLANs such as wireless e.g. WiFi or WiMAX MoCA HPNA HomePlug and so forth which may or may not be in communication with another.

An ASD server responds to the client query by a message indicating its server capability and or other functionality such as device profiling for storage capacity supported communication modes etc. . The ASD server may send this message unicast to the querying renderer device or may multicast including broadcast this response so that one or more other devices on the PLAN can utilize it.

It will be appreciated that the server may also initiate the foregoing process e.g. where the server process broadcasts its presence and or capabilities onto the PLAN unsolicited or in response to other events aside from receiving a renderer based scan or query.

Note that the renderer device may be prompted to send the RequestAuthentication message by an action of the server e.g. receiving a probe content advertising or other message from the server or receiving a message e.g. primitive from a higher layer or related process within the client device itself such as in response to a user action or request .

Table 1 shows an the protocol fields included in an exemplary embodiment of the RequestAuthentication message. The first column of Table I Argument lists various protocol fields used in the message. The second column of Table I Direction indicates whether the corresponding field in the first column is filled in by the requesting client device or by the server device. A requesting client supplies the fields called out as IN for example. The third column Related State Variable gives an example of how a host that receives the RequestAuthentication message can record the fields by using a state variable within in the host s implementation. The exemplary ASD identifier ASDID is a sufficiently unique identifier associated with the requesting client device. When an ASD host receives the ASDID it can remember it by updating a state variable ClientASDID .

Other protocol fields included in the exemplary message format include i the ASDPEK field which contains the password encryption key PEK used by the client device ii the ASDPSK field which contains the pre shared key PSK for the ASD services iii the HostID field which contains sufficiently unique identification of the host device to which the message is being sent iv the HostPEK field which contains the PEK that is specific to the device issuing the request message the HostPEK is the password encryption key of the requesting device v the HostPSK which is the PSK of the requesting device.

If the ASD server process is able to authenticate the ASD client process based on the RequestAuthentication message the server may be configured to store the basic device information and ASD credentials so that they do not have to be transferred to the device again. The server keeps the contents of Table 1 fresh by tracking the Simple Service Description Protocol SSDP device status messages on the network although it will be appreciated that other approaches may be used.

In response to the message the server sends back an AuthenticationResponse message to the client renderer . If the server has been able to authenticate the requesting client this message includes a field indicating that the client device has been authorized for further interaction with the server. If the ASD server cannot authenticate the requesting device it can send back a message indicating that the authentication request was denied. The ASD server can convey the reason by including an error code in the response message or via an error log which is later sent or accessed.

It is noted that the RequestAuthentication message of the exemplary embodiment is configured to have no effect on the authenticating device s current state it is only intended to submit information to the server from the client or renderer. As used in the present context the term state refers generally and without limitation to the operating condition or status of the device. For example the aforementioned RequestAuthentication message would not change or interfere with current machine operations in progress thereby maintaining transparency and continuity. This is also true of the exemplary RequestPSP message described below. Unlike other UPnP services the exemplary ASD service described herein is largely action based. All of the variables exist to support the service actions. The directory is only published or exposed through actions invoked by the client devices.

Table 2 shows examples of various error codes that an ASD server can send to an ASD client in response to a RequestAuthentication message. The column headed Error Code lists various error codes sent by the exemplary ASD server. The short description column provides a description of each of the error code and the Explanation column provides a more detailed description for each of the errors.

The exemplary embodiment of the service ASDService for use in a cable network such as that of comprises a UPnP service that allows renderers and servers to participate in the ASD. The ASDService defines a service that runs on a server device e.g. CPE and is invoked by a client or renderer device . The ASDService process in defined for exchanging and authenticating security credentials to different devices in the PLAN. The illustrated embodiment of the ASDService advantageously abides by the UPnP AV Architecture for browsing content setting up connections transporting content and controlling the flow of the content between devices. The ASDService is a typically a precursor to the UPNP general playback process. The ASDService is executed before the device can browse the ASD content directory or allow playback. A denial by the ASDService prevents the client CPE from rendering ASD protected content.

The exemplary ASDService depends on the UPnP defined Content Directory Service to find advertise browse and control content directories on the server. The ASDService causes the server restrict the presentation or availability of content assets that are ASD protected until a device has been authenticated by the ASDservice. All ASD protected content can be stored in an ASD directory on the server or its storage proxy e.g. another connected device within the ASD or TD which the server CPE controls or for which it acts as a gatekeeper for content browsing or access. The Content Directory Services running on the server purposely will not expose the content located in the ASD directory or other secure facility over a general Browse or Browse All command. Rather the Content Directory Service only exposes the content in response to direct queries of that directory after proper authentication authorization . All other aspects of the Content Service Directory function of UPnP are maintained.

The submission of the security package is required each time a renderer accesses content in order for the server to maintain CCI counters to comply with copy once and copy never classified content.

The exemplary ASD service type enables a number of functions on the PLAN including inter alia i allows an ASD capable device to request ASD authentication from the server ii allows an ASD capable device to access the ASD content directory and iii allows an ASD capable rendering device to request security packages for specific content listed in a content directory service by contentID and parentID see discussion of these state variables below .

If the client is authorized authenticated the server sends back a message that returns the data from the local content directory which may or may not physically reside on the server device . If the ASD client is not authorized the server sends a message back indicating an error condition and refuses access by the ASD client to content within the ASD. The ASD server can use error codes e.g. those shown in Table or other means to indicate the reason why the content browsing request was rejected.

Table 3 shows an exemplary format of fields that the client renderer may include in the aforementioned content viewing request. The first column Argument shows two arguments included in the message AssetContentID and AssetParentlD. These state variables allow an ASD capable rendering device to request security packages for specific content listed in a content directory service using two variables e.g. defined by UPnP. The second column Direction shows the device that both these arguments are generated by i.e. the renderer. The third column Related State Variable shows an example state variable that a server receiving the request can assign to each of these arguments listed in the first column.

The content security package is sent from the server to the renderer if the request is accepted. If the server rejects the renderer s request it will send a message to this effect and it may decide to include an error code such as for example one of those shown in Table and also may indicate a specific reason why it did not grant digital rights to the renderer to access the content. For example the server may indicate that access was not allowed because renderer exceeded the count of viewings allowed for the content.

Appendix I hereto provides exemplary code rendered in extensible markup language XML implementing portions of the foregoing message functions according to the invention.

In another aspect of the invention an operational or business rules engine can be implemented consistent with the invention as a higher layer or supervisory process that imposes particular rules on the previously described server and client processes in order to effect desired business or operations goals. The rules engine can be considered an overlay of sorts to the more fundamental processes used to accomplish required device advertising discovery security package negotiation browsing etc.

In one embodiment this rules engine is implemented a computer programs or programs running on one or more of the CPE that are party to a renderer server transaction. As previously discussed the server and renderer can implement logic to exchange messages and negotiate a common security framework that can be used for communication. This allows for mixing and matching of different vendor s equipment and overcomes the single source economic inefficiency introduced by proprietary conditional access and DRM solutions. The selection and utilization of the particular aspect of this common security framework as well as other features such as the communication channels that may be used to effectuate scanning authentication browsing and content transfer may be governed by the higher layer rules processes as well.

The supervisory rules may comprise a separate entity or process which is substantially autonomous of the network operator and may be fully integrated within other processing entities such as the aforementioned client or server processes . Alternatively the rules engine may be controlled via e.g. a remote MSO user interface such as a GUI on a PC connected to the relevant device via a network interface so as to allow the MSO to adjust or reprogram aspects of the rules engine reload it with updates etc.

Included within these rules are the implementation of security management policies that can increase or enhance i content security or protection ii network optimization and reliability iii subscriber or user satisfaction iv profit or revenue and so forth.

For example one rule implemented by the rules engine may comprise only providing certain types or program recording and or distribution features to certain subscribers or classes of subscribers. The subscriber server CPE may possess UPNP capability for interfacing with and transmitting content to a connected device for example but the ability to transfer such protected content out of the server CPE s not be made available to such subscribers unless they met certain criteria e.g. premium subscription etc. .

Moreover premium subscribers might be given a greater scope of options and choices e.g. the ability to use a wider range of CPE e.g. new DSTBs introduced in the retail market while more basic subscribers are limited as to the type of device they may use as part of their subscription.

The present invention also contemplates the partial disclosure of content by a server CPE based on the level of authentication achieved by a renderer device. These levels of authentication may be controlled by the network operator such as where higher levels of access or authentication are provided to subscribers or users with greater privileges. For example when a renderer is not authenticated at all the server CPE may be configured to not give the renderer any access to browsing protected material of any kind. At a higher tier of authentication or permission the server may give access to the renderer to only a subset of titles or alternatively all titles but without access to the substantive content itself other than perhaps a trailer or preview .

Similarly a server CPE may be configured by the rules engine to only provide access to content that originated from a cable WAN e.g. HFC for renderer devices that authenticate themselves as a cable operator authorized renderer or provide some other indicia of trust for that particular type or origin of content.

Similarly different rules or grades of access can be provided to different types of content e.g. content that is more mature or has been in distribution for a longer period of time may be viewed as less risky from a theft or unauthorized copying standpoint and hence the authentication level or permissions required to browse and even transfer that content may be relaxed somewhat as compared to new release content.

The server CPE may also segregate content based e.g. on AssetContentID or a similar variable and apply different access and transfer rules based on such segregation. For example all content with an AssetContentID of a certain form might require extended permissions e.g. parental control and authentication before that content can be previewed or transferred.

The server may also be advantageously used as an advertisement platform to provide occasional browsing access to showcased content to attract a user to purchase additional titles or a subscription or membership.

The business rules engine previously described or another functional entity within the network may also be used to implement and enforce so called copy once rules or protection mechanisms of the type well known in the content reproduction and distribution arts. Similar rules such as e.g. never copy and no more copying can also be implemented as desired. For example the Philips Video Content Protection System VCPS which enables content delivered over a cable network to be marked as copy once meaning it can be burned onto VCPS enabled DVD R and DVD RW disks although many other types of systems and rules are envisaged for use within the current invention.

It will be recognized that while certain aspects of the invention are described in terms of a specific sequence of steps of a method these descriptions are only illustrative of the broader methods of the invention and may be modified as required by the particular application. Certain steps may be rendered unnecessary or optional under certain circumstances. Additionally certain steps or functionality may be added to the disclosed embodiments or the order of performance of two or more steps permuted. All such variations are considered to be encompassed within the invention disclosed and claimed herein.

While the above detailed description has shown described and pointed out novel features of the invention as applied to various embodiments it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form and details of the device or process illustrated may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. The foregoing description is of the best mode presently contemplated of carrying out the invention. This description is in no way meant to be limiting but rather should be taken as illustrative of the general principles of the invention. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the claims.

