---

title: System and method for handling payment errors with respect to delivery services
abstract: Systems and methods which provide processing of payment errors with respect to delivery services in accordance with user preferences are disclosed herein. According to embodiments, a delivery service user provides information with respect to how payment errors with respect to delivery services provided to the user are to be handled to facilitate electronic and/or automated processing of such payment errors. A user may authorize payment shortages on the user's behalf, may request notification for an ad hoc determination as to how the shortage is to be handled, or may elect to have postal items returned in the case of payment shortage. Various levels of payment error handling services may be provided with respect to users. Detailed information, such as statistics with respect to users' payment errors, the numbers and types of payment errors, user's preferences in handling payment errors, etcetera, may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08612361&OS=08612361&RS=08612361
owner: Stamps.com Inc.
number: 08612361
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061227
---
The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 353 690 entitled System and Method for Validating Postage filed Feb. 14 2006 09 491 949 entitled System and Method for Printing Multiple Postage Indicia filed Jan. 26 2000 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 343 357 on Mar. 11 2008 and 10 862 058 entitled Virtual Security Device filed Jun. 4 2004 published as US 2005 0256811 on Nov. 15 2005 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed generally to providing payment for postal and shipping services and more particularly to handling payment errors with respect to postal and shipping services.

Many postal and shipping services referred to collectively herein as delivery services require prepayment for such services as may be shown through some form of value indicia placed on a letter or parcel. For example postal services such as the United States Postal Service USPS require a stamp meter stamp or postage indicia to be affixed to letters and parcels upon their entry into the mail stream in order to show that a requisite amount of value has been paid for their handling and delivery.

Often either through error or malfeasance a user of a delivery service may purchase and thus apply an incorrect amount of postage to an item for which delivery services are desired. Such errors in postage typically result in a payment shortage. Allowing such payment shortages to pass unchecked can result in significant losses in revenues for a delivery service such as the USPS. Accordingly delivery services often have some procedure in place typically manual for identifying and handling payment shortages.

The USPS for example has implemented a manual procedure for identifying and handling payment shortages. Although the processing of mail and parcels by the USPS is highly automated payment shortages are primarily identified through manual intervention. For example as a letter or parcel passes through the mail stream a postal employee may notice that a container appears unusually large or excessively heavy for the amount of postage applied. This postal item will be physically removed from the mail stream and placed in a bin for providing to a payment shortage processing department for manual processing. The payment shortage processing department will typically weigh and possibly measure the postal item to determine the correct amount of postage for the delivery services.

If it is determined that the amount of postage applied constitutes an underpayment the payment shortage processing department may handle the mail in one of two ways. If the amount of underpayment is not excessive e.g. less than one half the proper amount and the postal item is not part of a mailing from a same sender in which a large number e.g. ten or more of postal items have an improper postage amount affixed thereto the postal item may be marked postage due and the requested delivery services performed. In such a situation it falls upon the recipient to either pay the amount of the underpayment or to refuse delivery of the postal item in which case the postal item will be returned to the sender where possible. If the amount of underpayment is excessive e.g. more than one half the proper amount the postal item is part of a mailing from the same sender in which a large number e.g. ten or more of postal items have an improper postage amount affixed thereto or there is another reason for refusing to deliver the postal item e.g. the postal item involves international delivery the postal item may be returned to the sender or delivery by the delivery service may otherwise be refused.

It can be appreciated from the foregoing that underpayment for delivery services can result in appreciable increased costs for a delivery service provider. For example manual identification and processing of postal items results in significant per item costs over the typical automated processing provided by such delivery services as the USPS. Moreover providing for the collection and accounting of postage due payments adds a significant burden to the delivery service s processes. Returning items to a sender incurs appreciable costs by the delivery service provider perhaps as much as delivering the item to the intended recipient . Moreover the foregoing processing results in delays in delivery of the item thereby causing dissatisfaction with senders and receivers alike. However such processing of payment shortages for delivery services is considered necessary by delivery services in order to discourage chronic or systematic underpayment which would have significant revenue losses associated therewith.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods which provide processing of payment errors e.g. underpayments and or overpayments with respect to delivery services in accordance with user preferences. According to embodiments of the invention a delivery service user e.g. senders and or recipients of letters or parcels provides information with respect to how payment errors with respect to delivery services provided to the user are to be handled to facilitate electronic and or automated processing of such payment errors. For example a user may authorize payment shortages to be deducted from a postage meter balance associated with the user may authorize payment of such shortages on the user s behalf for later billing to the user e.g. monthly post billing may request notification of such payment shortage for an ad hoc determination by the user as to how the shortage is to be handled may elect to have postal items returned to the user in the case of payment shortage. One or more of the foregoing user preferences with respect to handling payment errors may be based upon one or more criteria such as payment shortages under a particular amount e.g. payment is authorized for any payment shortage under 1.00 payment overages over a particular amount e.g. crediting an account is authorized for any payment overage over 1.00 payment shortages totaling less than a particular number per period e.g. payment is authorized for up to 10 payment shortages per month payment shortages for particular delivery services e.g. payment is authorized for first class mail delivery payment shortages for particular recipients e.g. payment is authorized for delivery to any address on a list of addresses provided by the user etcetera.

According to an embodiment of the invention a user for which processing of payment errors is provided is a user of an information based indicia IBI postage indicia system. For example the user may have a postage account with Stamps.com the assignee of the present application for generating and printing postage indicia using a computer based system. Such IBI may be utilized for identifying the user a postage account associated with the user a meter number associated with the user an amount of postage paid a particular delivery service requested the type of item to be delivered any discounts or special pricing applicable to the requested delivery service address information with respect to the user address information with respect to the intended recipient and or the like. In operation according to an embodiment of the invention an item bearing the foregoing IBI may be identified as having an error in the payment amount for the particular delivery service requested. The IBI may be scanned or otherwise read to obtain various desired information. For example user identification information e.g. user name user address unique meter number etcetera and or user account information e.g. unique user account number service provider providing the user metering services etcetera may be obtained for electronic processing of the payment error. Scanning of the IBI may take place upon initial acceptance of an item into the mail stream e.g. acceptance by a postal clerk during processing of the item for delivery e.g. during sorting or at any other time deemed appropriate according to an embodiment of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention operate to determine a user s preferences with respect to handling the payment error. For example user identification information and or user account information obtained from an IBI may be associated with a particular service provider such as Stamps.com providing payment error handling services for the user. An application programming interface API or any other appropriate interface e.g. web application interface may be used by the delivery service provider to interact with a payment error handling services provider and or metering services provider in order to determine the user s preferences in handling the payment error and perhaps to receive payment for the requested services in order to prevent delay or return of the item.

For example where the user s preferences indicate payment for an underpayment should be provided the metering services provider may cause an appropriate amount to be deducted from a metering account associated with the user. Similarly where the user s preference indicate payment for an underpayment should be provided the payment error handling services provider may advance an appropriate amount on behalf of the user for later billing to the user. The foregoing may be provided electronically such that the delivery service provider is provided indication of payment in real time and thus delay in delivery of the item as well as processing of the item by the delivery service provider is minimized. Such payment may include generation of an indicia such as a supplemental postage indicia at the delivery service provider s location for application to the item to facilitate further processing of the item.

Where the user s preference is not to pay an underpayment the metering services provider may notify the user of the underpayment to allow an ad hoc decision as to how to handle the underpayment which may result in more rapid payment for an appreciable number of items. Additionally or alternatively where the user s preference is not to pay an underpayment the metering services provider may notify the delivery service provider to return the item to the user may request that the delivery service provider deliver the item postage due where possible etcetera.

Handling of payment errors need not involve a metering services provider according to embodiments of the invention. For example although a metering services provider may be a preferred provider for such payment error handling services where underpayments are to be funded using a user s metering account payment services may be provided according to embodiments of the invention by other service providers particularly where payment advances and post billing is used. Moreover payment error handling service providers may additionally or alternatively interface with one or more metering services providers in order to facilitate debiting a user s metering account where desired. Similarly a metering services provider may provide payment error handling services with respect to users of another metering services provider if desired.

The foregoing payment services may be provided to users with a surcharge. For example in order to avoid delays in delivery of items possibly including return of the item to the sender and repackaging of the item for a subsequent delivery attempt users may agree to a fee per item or per service period in order to take advantage of the benefits of embodiments of the present invention.

Various levels of payment error handling services may be provided with respect to users. For example users agreeing to the aforementioned surcharge may be provided a full complement of payment error handling services including payment of underpayment amounts in order to avoid delays in delivering items. Whereas other users may be provided only more basic services such as providing notification that a payment error has been detected notification that an item is being returned for a payment error and or the like.

Embodiments of the invention provide advantages in addition to the aforementioned minimizing delays in delivering and time for processing items having a payment error associated therewith. For example detailed information such as statistics with respect to users payment errors the numbers and types of payment errors user s preferences in handling payment errors etcetera may be provided to delivery service providers and or users according to embodiments of the invention. Using such information a delivery service provider may deny further services to a user who chronically under pays for delivery services for example.

It should be appreciated that payment error handling services provided according to embodiments of the invention may not only address underpayment but may additionally or alternatively address overpayment. For example although overpayment errors today typically result in the user forfeiting the overpayment amount efficiencies of operation according to embodiments of the invention with respect to handling underpayment errors may facilitate a quid pro quo wherein amounts of overpayment errors or some portion thereof are refunded to a user e.g. through credit to a meter account through offsetting a post payment amount etcetera .

Payment error handling services may be provided not only with respect to a sender of an item but such services may additionally or alternatively be provided with respect to a recipient of an item. For example a recipient may establish preferences with respect to situations in which the recipient would like to authorize payment for an underpayment for delivery of an item to the recipient. Such payment might be debited from the recipient s meter account balance be billed to the recipient etcetera. In such an embodiment the recipient may facilitate delivery of items without delay due to payment errors even where a sender of the item has not elected to participate in a payment error handling service.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.

Directing attention to system adapted to provide handling of payment errors for delivery services according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In the illustrated embodiment user system provides for generation of delivery service indicia such as may comprise an information based indicia used by the United States Postal Service USPS for delivery of mail and parcels. For example processor based system such as may comprise a personal computer or other suitable processing platform is used by a user to generate a delivery service indicia. The delivery service indicia perhaps in combination with a shipping label or document forming all or part of an item to be delivered may be printed by printer such as may comprise a laser printer an ink jet printer etcetera. Processor based system may operate independently or in combination with other systems to generate and print the foregoing indicia. For example processor based system may communicate via network such as may comprise a local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN an extranet an intranet the Internet and or the like to communicate with an indicia generation platform such as indicia generation processor . Details with respect to systems providing generation and printing of indicia for use in authorizing delivery of items is provided in the above referenced patent applications entitled System and Method for Validating Postage System and Method for Printing Multiple Postage Indicia and Virtual Security Device. 

In the illustrated embodiment an item bearing the indicia is introduced into mail stream . Mail stream shown as comprised of items may include items introduced into the mail stream by a variety of different senders and may be bound for any number of different intended recipients. The foregoing items may be of various types items of different sizes items of different weights items for which various services are to be provided etcetera. Accordingly various amounts for delivery services may be associated with ones of items . For example parcel may incur a delivery service charge which is higher than that associated with flat which is higher than that associated with letter . Such delivery service charges may be affected by any or all of the weight of the item the size of the item the particular delivery service requested the location of the sender the location of the recipient the contents of the item the number of items introduced into the mail stream by the sender etcetera. Accordingly a user may easily provide an erroneous amount with respect to a delivery service indicia for any particular item. Therefore the delivery service provider of the illustrated embodiment implements a process for identifying and handling payment errors.

Directing attention to an exemplary process for identifying and handling payment errors with respect to delivery services through operation of system of is shown. At block of the exemplary process the delivery service provider determines that a payment error has been made with respect to a particular item. For example flat may be determined to have an insufficient amount of postage affixed thereto. Processing items to determine if an error in payment has been made may occur at various points in the handling of the item. For example such processing may take place upon initial acceptance of an item into the mail stream e.g. acceptance by a postal clerk during processing of the item for delivery e.g. during sorting and or other points in the handling of the item.

A determination that a payment error has been made may be made in a number of ways according to embodiments of the present invention. For example mail stream may pass through automated mail handling equipment of delivery service provider system in which scale and scanner are disposed. Scanner may comprise an optical scanner adapted to obtain an image of human readable information and convert that information to a form for processing by a processor based system e.g. optical character recognition functionality and or adapted to more directly read data e.g. barcode reader magnetic ink code reader radio frequency identification reader etcetera . Thus scanner may read a value represented by an indicia affixed to flat a type of delivery service requested information with respect to a location of the sender and or intended recipient of flat information with respect to the contents of flat etcetera. Correspondingly scale may determine a weight of flat . Information with respect to an item s size may additionally or alternatively be collected. For example scanner may provide optical processing in order to determine a length width and or height of flat . Any or all of the foregoing information may be provided to a processor based system such as payment error processor for analysis to determine if a payment error has been made.

Payment error processor of embodiments may comprise a computer system e.g. an Intel PENTIUM based computer platform operating under control of an instruction set setting forth operation as described herein. Payment error processor of preferred embodiments analyzes information with respect to an item to determine if a payment error has been made. For example information with respect to a type of delivery service requested the weight of item and the size of item may be used to calculate an appropriate amount of payment. This calculated appropriate amount of payment may be compared to the value represented by the indicia affixed to flat to determine if a payment error has occurred.

Although the foregoing embodiment has been described with reference to automated mail handling equipment it should be appreciated that the concepts of the present invention may be applied to more traditional underpayment detection techniques. For example flat may be manually separated from mail stream by an employee of the delivery service provider as putatively having a payment error. Flat may later be placed on scale and an indicia thereon scanned using scanner by underpayment processing personnel. Relevant information with respect to flat as discussed above may be provided to payment error processor for a determination as to whether a payment error has been made.

At block of the illustrated embodiment a payment error amount is determined. For example payment error processor may subtract the value represented by the indicia affixed to flat from the calculated appropriate amount of payment to determine a payment error amount.

Although not shown in the illustrated embodiment a determination may be made with respect to whether the payment error amount is sufficiently large e.g. meets one or more predetermined threshold value to warrant further payment error handling processing. For example if an underpayment is less than a first threshold amount e.g. 0.01 it may be decided that further payment error handling is undesirable. Similarly if an overpayment is less than a second threshold amount e.g. 0.25 it may be decided that further payment error handling is undesirable. According to embodiments of the invention the foregoing threshold values may be the same the first threshold may be greater than the second threshold different threshold amounts may be used with respect to different users types of services types of items etcetera. Moreover thresholds used for such determinations may not be a predetermined amount but rather a percentage of an amount e.g. percentage of the indicia value percentage of the proper value or percentage of the payment error . Preferred embodiments of the invention however proceed to process all underpayments using the efficiencies of electronic processing as described herein to make such processing practicable.

Information with respect to the payment error is provided to a payment error handling service provider at block of the illustrated embodiment. For example payment error processor provides information to identify a user or user account and the payment error amount to payment error services processor of metering services provider payment error handling service provider system via network according to an embodiment of the invention.

Payment error services processor of embodiments may comprise a computer system e.g. an Intel PENTIUM based computer platform operating under control of an instruction set setting forth operation as described herein. Payment error services processor of preferred embodiments processes payment error information with respect to an item to determine how the payment error is to be handled and to provide information to payment error processor to facilitate handling of the payment error and associated item by the delivery service provider.

At block a determination is made as to whether a user associated with the item having a payment error has payment error handling services and or what level of payment error handling services are to be provided. For example a user of an Internet postage service such as that available from Stamps.com may elect to be provided payment error handling services. Accordingly information provided by payment error processor may be used to identify a user and or an account and to determine if that user or account has payment error handling services associated therewith. According to embodiments of the invention database may store information with respect to particular users accounts meter numbers etcetera for which payment error handling services are are not to be provided. Moreover the information in database may include a level of payment error handling services to be not to be provided with respect to such users accounts meter numbers etcetera.

If it is determined at block that payment error handling services are not to be provided processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein information is provided to the delivery service provider that payment error handling services are not being provided. For example payment error services processor may provide data to payment error processor that no payment error handling with respect to the particular item is being provided by the payment error handling services provider and that the delivery service provider should handle the item according to an alternate process e.g. deliver postage due or return to sender .

Embodiments of the present invention operate to provide a minimum level of payment error handling services even where a user has not elected to receive such services. For example in addition to providing information to delivery service provider at block embodiments of the invention provide notification to a user of the payment error block if it is determined at block that payment error handling services are not to be provided.

If however it is determined at block that payment error handling services are to be provided processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein payment error handling parameters for the appropriate user account meter number etcetera are obtained. For example database may store information with respect to how payment errors associated with particular users accounts meter numbers etcetera are to be handled. A user may interact with processor based system to establish desired payment error handling parameters for use by payment error services processor such as through interaction with indicia generation processor and or payment error services processor to cause appropriate information to be stored in database .

Such information may include whether payment for an underpayment is authorized whether credit for an overpayment is authorized a maximum amount of payment for an underpayment which is authorized a maximum number of payments per period for underpayment that are authorized a total amount of payments per period for underpayment that is authorized the types of delivery services for which payment for underpayment is authorized the intended recipients for which payment for underpayment is authorized the types of items for which payment for underpayment is authorized etcetera. The information stored in database may additionally or alternatively include whether payment for underpayment or credit for overpayment is to be debited credited to a particular prepaid account or is to be advanced for post billing to the user and whether the user is to decide ad hoc for some or all payment error handling services how a payment error is to be handled. Such parameters may be utilized by a user to for example control a delivery services budget to avoid depleting an account unexpectedly or to facilitate completion of particular delivery services without delay while allowing less important delivery services to be handled in a more traditional manner.

At block a determination is made as to whether the user is to make an ad hoc decision with respect to handling the payment error. For example information with respect to the amount of the payment error the type of delivery service requested the intended recipient the contents of the item etcetera may be utilized with respect to the foregoing parameters stored in database to determine that the user wishes to make an ad hoc decision for handing the payment error.

If it is determined at block that the user is to make an ad hoc decision for handling the payment error processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein a decision is solicited from the user. For example one or more messages such as an electronic mail communication a short message service SMS message an instant message IM an interactive voice response IVR message and or the like may be directed to the user in an effort to solicit a decision. Preferably a user is given some limited amount of time e.g. 24 hours for a decision before a default payment error handling process is implemented. Accordingly embodiments of the invention operate to utilize real time messaging where available. Various information with respect to the item for which a payment error has been made such as the amount of the payment error the type of delivery service requested the intended recipient the contents of the item etcetera may be provided to the user in order to facilitate the ad hoc decision.

A user may for example decide that a meter account associated with the user is to be debited for an underpayment that the payment error handling services provider should advance an underpayment amount and post bill the user that no payment of an underpayment is to be made and thus the delivery service provider is to handle the payment error by another process that an overpayment amount is to be credited to a meter account associated with the user etcetera. Information indicating the user s ad hoc decision with respect to handing the payment error is preferably provided to payment error services processor such as via an electronic mail communication a SMS message an IM an IVR response and or the like. For example a user may interact with processor based system to provide information with respect to a payment error handling decision to payment error services processor via network .

If however it is determined at block that the user is not to make an ad hoc decision for handling the payment error or after solicitation of an ad hoc decision from the user at block processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein it is determined as to whether a payment credit for the payment error is to be made. For example as mentioned above a user may decide ad hoc that an underpayment is to be paid whether by debiting an account associated with the user or by advancing payment by the payment error handling services provider. Similarly the user s payment error handling preferences as stored in database may indicate for the circumstances associated with this particular item that an underpayment is to paid by the payment error handling services provider. Accordingly if it is determined that a payment credit for the payment error is to be made at block processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein the payment credit is made.

If however it is determined at block that a payment credit for the payment error is not to be made at block processing according to the illustrated embodiment proceeds to block wherein the user is notified of the payment error. For example as mentioned above a user may decide ad hoc that an underpayment is to be handled by means other than payment facilitated through the payment error handling services provider. Similarly the user s payment error handling preferences as stored in database may indicate for the circumstances associated with this particular item that an underpayment is to be handled by means other than payment facilitated through the payment error handling services provider. Accordingly a payment credit may not be made in response to there being a payment error.

Notification of the payment error and or how the payment error is being handled is provided to a user at block of the illustrated embodiment. For example an electronic mail communication a SMS message an IM an IVR message and or the like may be provided to the user to provide information with respect to the payment error and how that payment error is being handled by the payment error handling services provider and or delivery service provider.

At block of the illustrated embodiment information for facilitating the delivery service provider handling the payment error in accordance with the user s preferences is provided to the delivery service provider. For example payment error services processor may provide information representing a value transfer in the amount of an underpayment to payment error processor via network on behalf of the user in order to facilitate delivery of flat without further delay. Alternatively payment error services processor may provide information instructing payment error processor to process flat according to a default payment error handling process via network where the user prefers not to have the payment error handling services provider make payment on behalf of the user.

According to embodiments of the invention payment error services processor interacts with indicia generation processor to cause a supplemental value indicia in an amount of an underpayment for delivery services to be generated and transmitted to payment error processor . Payment error processor may cause the supplemental value indicia to be applied to flat such as by printing the indicia at printer . Accordingly further processing of flat by the delivery service provider may be without additional delay due to the previous payment error.

Additionally or alternatively payment error processor may provide information to other systems of the delivery service provider in order to avoid subsequent processing of item due to the previously identified payment error.

Although not shown in the exemplary process of embodiments of the invention may operate to compile statistical information with respect to payment errors. For example information with respect to users payment errors the numbers and types of payment errors user s preferences in handling payment errors etcetera may be compiled for providing to delivery service providers and or users according to embodiments of the invention. A delivery service provider may use such information to deny further services to a user who chronically under pays for delivery services until such user has taken steps to address the situation.

Although the embodiment illustrated in shows a same service provider providing both metering services and payment error handling services it should be appreciated that such services may be separately provided according to embodiments of the invention. For example a payment error services provider may provide payment error services with respect to payment errors associated with users of various different metering services whether or not the payment error services provider itself also provides metering services.

Payment error handling services may be provided not only with respect to a sender of an item but such services may additionally or alternatively be provided with respect to a recipient of an item. For example steps of the process of may be performed with respect to a sender to determine if payment error handling services are to be provided with respect to a sender of the item. If such services are not to be provided with respect to the sender steps of the process may be performed with respect to an intended recipient to determine if payment error handling services are to be provided with respect to a recipient of the item. Similar to a sender a recipient may establish preferences with respect to situations in which the recipient would like to authorize payment for an underpayment for delivery of an item to the recipient. Such payment might be debited from the recipient s meter account balance be billed to the recipient etcetera. In such an embodiment the recipient may facilitate delivery of items without delay due to payment errors even where a sender of the item has not elected to participate in a payment error handling service.

A service surcharge may be assessed by a payment error handling services provider providing payment error handling services according to embodiments of the invention. For example in addition to the amount of an underpayment the payment error handling services provider may collect an additional amount e.g. a predetermined amount an amount based upon the type of delivery service an amount based upon the charges for the delivery service an amount based upon a level of payment error handling services provided etcetera from users for the payment error handling service. According to embodiments of the invention such surcharges may be deducted from a meter account along with an underpayment amount. Similarly such surcharges may be deducted from a credit to be made to a meter account in association with an overpayment. Of course various techniques for collecting such surcharges may be implemented such as prepayment post payment billing separate from debiting crediting amounts to a metering account etcetera.

It should be appreciated that although embodiments have been described herein with reference to handling payment errors embodiments of the present invention may be utilized to provide for handling payment for services which are not associated with a payment error. For example the systems and methods described herein may be utilized to facilitate a postage metering process which deducts or otherwise commits postage value only with respect to postal items actually processed by the postal authority. Accordingly refunds for misprinted postage indicia may be avoided. Likewise postage indicia which is generated but never used does not result in forfeiture of postage value according to embodiments of the invention.

In operation according to an embodiment of the invention a non funded or partially funded postage indicium referred to herein as an unfunded postage indicium is generated by a user. This unfunded funded postage indicium preferably appears to be a typical postage indicium such as the aforementioned IBI but the full value of postage value for payment of delivery services has not been committed e.g. a meter descending register has not been decremented in the full amount of postage to be used for delivery of an item at generation of the unfunded postage indicium. The unfunded postage indicium preferably includes information identifying a user a meter an account etcetera for identifying an appropriate user or account from which payment for postage is to be obtained as described above. Thereafter when the item associated with the unfunded postage indicium is handled the unfunded postage indicium may be scanned or otherwise read such as by scanner a payment processor such as that of payment error processor described above may operate to provide for payment or full payment for the postage.

The foregoing embodiment providing for payment of postage when an associated item is handled ensures that only postage for items which are actually handled for delivery is paid by a user. Accordingly if a unfunded postage indicium fails to print properly or otherwise remains unused the user need not take any steps for obtaining a refund. Moreover users may pay only for postage actually needed at the time of use rather than pre paying for an amount of postage which is expected to be used in the future as is the case with typical postage metering paradigms.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

