---

title: Treatment of the vertebral column
abstract: A method is provided for treating a spinal condition. The method includes introducing a biological treatment into an area of a vertebral column, and mechanically unloading the treated area by applying a load-bearing device to the anterior region, the anterior column region, the posterior region, or the spinous process region of the vertebral column.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08163018&OS=08163018&RS=08163018
owner: Warsaw Orthopedic, Inc.
number: 08163018
owner_city: Warsaw
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
The present application relates generally to treatment of the vertebral column for example repairing or regenerating an area of the vertebral column or reducing or preventing degeneration of an area of the vertebral column.

Disease degradation and trauma of the spine can lead to various conditions that require treatment to maintain stabilize or reconstruct the vertebral column. For example degeneration of the facet joints and or the intervertebral discs due to aging and or trauma can lead to pain neurological deficit and or loss of motions that require treatment to maintain stabilize reconstruct and or regenerate the degenerated levels. Repair regeneration of such levels via a biological approach is technically challenging at least in part because of the high loading environment present in such levels. Reducing or preventing degeneration of an area of the vertebral column can be similarly challenging.

The present application relates generally to treatment of the vertebral column for example repairing or regenerating an area of the vertebral column or reducing or preventing degeneration of an area of the vertebral column.

In one embodiment a method of treating a vertebral column includes introducing a biological treatment into an area of a vertebral column and at least partially mechanically unloading the treated area. In one aspect the treated area is mechanically unloaded by applying a load bearing device to at least one region of the vertebral column. In certain aspects the load bearing device is applied to an anterior region an anterior column region a posterior region or a spinous process region of the vertebral column.

In another embodiment a method of treating a vertebral column includes introducing a biological treatment into a facet joint in a vertebral column and at least partially mechanically unloading the treated facet joint. In one aspect the treated facet joint is at least partially mechanically unloaded by applying a load bearing device to a posterior region or a spinous process region of the vertebral column adjacent to the treated area.

In another embodiment a method of treating a vertebral column includes introducing a biological treatment into a disc space in a vertebral column and at least partially mechanically unloading the treated disc space. In one aspect the treated disc space is unloaded by applying a load bearing device to a posterior region or a spinous process region of the vertebral column adjacent to the treated area.

In another embodiment a method for treating a motion segment of a vertebral column includes accessing a portion of the patient s spinal column implanting a load bearing device into the motion segment and injecting a biological treatment into the motion segment. The load bearing device at least partially mechanically unloads the motion segment. In one such embodiment the motion segment of the vertebral column is intact.

The present disclosure relates generally to treatment of the vertebral column for example repairing or regenerating an area of the vertebral column or reducing or preventing degeneration of an area of the vertebral column.

Certain embodiments describe methods for treating motion segments of the spinal column and components thereof. Such embodiments include but are not limited to treating facet joints intervertebral discs vertebral bodies and endplates using a biological approach in combination with a mechanical unloading device that is at least partially load bearing with respect to the treated area such that it at least partially unloads the treated area.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to the embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the invention as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

Referring now to the reference numeral refers to a motion segment of a vertebral column. Motion segment comprises an intervertebral disc and a facet joint . Motion segment may be considered as having several regions extending from anterior to posterior. These regions include an anterior region an anterior column region a posterior region and a spinous process region . The anterior column region may be further considered to have several regions extending longitudinally along the column. These regions include a vertebral body region an endplate region and a disc space region . Disc space region includes the nucleus and annulus forming intervertebral disc .

Any of the regions illustrated in may benefit from a biological treatment as described herein. In certain embodiments the biological treatment is non load bearing. In certain aspects a non load bearing biological treatment comprises a composition that is applied without an associated support or structure. Treatment treating of the vertebral column includes repair and or regeneration of a degenerated area of the vertebral column and or reduction or prevention of degeneration of an area of the vertebral column. Methods for treating the vertebral column with a biological treatment and a device that is at least partially load bearing with respect to the treated area such that the device at least partially mechanically unloads the treated area are described herein.

As used herein a biological treatment includes but is not limited to a biologically active component with or without a biological additive .

A biologically active component includes but is not limited to anti cytokines cytokines anti interleukin 1 components anti IL 1 anti TNF alpha growth factors LIM mineralization proteins stem cell material autogenic chondrocytes allogenic chondrocytes such as those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0196387 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference autogenic chondrocytes with retroviral viral vector or plasmid viral vector allogenic chondrocytes with retroviral viral vector or plasmid viral vector and fibroblasts. The acronym LIM is derived from the three genes in which the LIM domain was first described. The LIM domain is a cysteine rich motif defined by 50 60 amino acids with the consensus sequence CXCXHXCXCXCXCX C H D which contains two closely associated zinc binding modules. LIM mineralization proteins include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0180266 A1 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Growth factors include but are not limited to transforming growth factor TGF beta 1 TGF beta 2 TGF beta 3 bone morphogenetic protein BMP 2 BMP 3 BMP 4 BMP 6 BMP 7 BMP 9 fibroblast growth factor FGF platelet derived growth factor PDGF insulin like growth factor ILGF human endothelial cell growth factor ECGF epidermal growth factor EGF nerve growth factor NGF and vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF . Anti IL 1 components include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0220283 and 2005 0260159 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. Stem cell material includes but is not limited to dedifferentiated stem cells undifferentiated stem cells and mesenchymal stem cells. Stem cell material also includes but is not limited to stem cells extracted from marrow which may include lipo derived stem cell material and adipose derived stem cell material such as described in U.S. Publication Nos. 2004 0193274 and 2005 0118228 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Stem cell material also includes but is not limited to stem cells derived from adipose tissue as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0161816 2004 0097867 and 2004 0106196 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A biologically active component also includes but is not limited to cartilage derived morphogenetic protein CDMP cartilage inducing factor CIP proteoglycans hormones and matrix metalloproteinases MMP inhibitors which act to inhibit the activity of MMPs to prevent the MMPs from degrading the extracellular matrix ECM produced by cells within the nucleus pulposus of the disc. Exemplary MMP inhibitors include but are not limited to tissue inhibitors such as TIMP 1 and TIMP 2. Certain MMP inhibitors are also described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0228853 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A biologically active component also includes but is not limited to allogenic or xenogenic disc annulus material such as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0043801 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference biologic tissues such as those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0004574 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference an activated tissue graft such as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0136042 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference an engineered cell comprising a nucleic acid for encoding a protein or variant thereof such as a BMP a LIM mineralization protein or an SMAD protein as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0219423 and 2003 0228292 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference and a recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein such as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0024081 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

As used herein a biological additive includes but is not limited to biomaterial carriers therapeutic agents liquids and lubricants. 

 Biomaterial carriers include but are not limited to collagen gelatin hyaluronic acid fibrin albumin keratin silk elastin glycosaminoglycans GAGs polyethylene glycol PEG polyethylene oxide PEO polyvinyl alcohol PVA hydrogel polyvinyl pyrrolidone PVP co polymers of PVA and PVP other polysaccharides platelet gel peptides carboxymethyl cellulose and other modified starches and celluloses. Collagen includes but is not limited to collagen based material which may be autogenic allogenic xenogenic or of human recombinant origin such as the collagen based material described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0054414 and 2004 0228901 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

 Therapeutic agents include but are not limited to nutrients analgesics antibiotics anti inflammatories steroids antiviricides vitamins amino acids and peptides. Nutrients include but are not limited to substances that promote disc cell survival such as glucose and pH buffers wherein the pH buffer provides a basic environment in the disc space which preferably will be a pH of about 7.4. Analgesics include but are not limited to hydrophilic opoids such as codeine prodrugs morphine hydromorphone propoxyphene hydrocodone oxycodone meperidine and methadone and lipophilic opoids such as fentanyl. Antibiotics include but are not limited to erythromycin bacitracin neomycin penicillin polymyxin B tetracyclines viomycin chloromycetin and streptomycins cefazolin ampicillin azactam tobramycin clindamycin and gentamycin.

 Liquids include but are not limited to water saline and radio contrast media. Radio contrast media includes but is not limited to barium sulfate or a radio contrast dye such as sodium diatrizoate HYPAQUE .

 Lubricants include but are not limited to hyaluronic acid a salt of hyaluronic acid sodium hyaluronate glucosaminoglycan dermatan sulfate heparin sulfate chondroitin sulfate keratin sulfate synovial fluid a component of synovial fluid vitronectin and rooster comb hyaluronate.

A biological treatment may be introduced to an area of a vertebral column such as a motion segment by any method and in any form appropriate for such introduction. For example the biological treatment can be injected deposited or applied as a solution a suspension emulsion paste a particulate material a fibrous material a plug a solid porous woven or non woven material or in a dehydrated or rehydrated state. Suitable forms for a biological treatment and suitable methods for injecting a biological treatment include those described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0267577 2005 0031666 2004 0054414 and 2004 0228901 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

For example referring now to a biological treatment may be injected into the joint capsule of a facet joint through a hypodermic needle attached to a syringe . The syringe is inserted into the joint capsule and the syringe plunger is depressed thereby releasing the biological treatment into the joint capsule of the facet joint. As illustrated by the arrows in the needle syringe assembly may be moved around within the joint capsule sweeping from side to side and back and forth to ensure uniform distribution of the biological treatment within the facet joint. It is preferred however that the tip of the needle be maintained near the center of the joint capsule to ensure deposition of the material within the desired area and to minimize potential leakage.

Referring now to another method for injecting a biological treatment into a facet joint is illustrated. According to the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment is provided in the form of microspheres powders particulates pellets granules a plug a solid porous woven or non woven material. Biological treatment may be compressed into a size suitable for delivery through a cannula by pressure and or heat and or insertion through a small diameter tube. The delivery cannula is attached to a dilator . The biological treatment is inserted into a facet joint by penetrating the capsule of the facet joint with a guide needle . Dilator preferably with delivery cannula already attached is inserted over guide needle . A plunger may be used to push the biological treatment from the cannula into the facet joint. The form of the biological treatment may expand upon exiting the dilator and may further expand as it hydrates or rehydrates in the facet joint.

Referring now to a method for injecting a biological treatment into a disc space is illustrated. According to the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment may be injected into the nucleus pulposus contained within a disc annulus in an intervertebral disc space . Biological treatment is injected through a hypodermic needle attached to a syringe . The syringe is inserted into the nucleus pulposus and the syringe plunger is depressed thereby releasing the biological treatment into the disc space . As illustrated by the arrows in the needle syringe assembly may be moved around sweeping from side to side and back and forth to ensure uniform distribution of the biological treatment within the disc space. It is preferred however that the tip of the needle be maintained near the center of the disc space to ensure deposition of the material within the nucleus of the disc and to minimize potential leakage.

Referring now to another method for injecting a biological treatment into a disc space is illustrated. According to the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment is provided in the form of granules a plug a solid porous woven or non woven material. Biological treatment may be compressed into a size suitable for delivery through a cannula by pressure and or heat and or insertion through a small diameter tube. The delivery cannula is attached to a dilator . The biological treatment is inserted into the nucleus pulposus by penetrating the annulus of the disc with a guide needle . Dilator preferably with delivery cannula already attached is inserted over guide needle . A plunger may be used to push the biological treatment from the cannula into the nucleus pulposus. The form of the biological treatment may expand upon exiting the dilator and may further expand as it hydrates or rehydrates.

Referring now to a method of injecting a biological treatment into a vertebral body and or an endplate is illustrated.

With reference now to a channel can be created in vertebral body through the pedicle using a suitable bone penetrating implement such as a trocar needle . A sheath can be inserted into channel through which various procedures can be implemented. shows a subsequent step in which a flexible or otherwise steerable device such as a needle or drill is positioned through sheath to access regions nearing the endplate of vertebral body . Although illustrates positioning sheath to access regions near the endplate of vertebral body sheath could also be positioned so as to access regions more central to the vertebral body itself as opposed to the endplate.

Referring still to several directional passes of the steerable device may be used in order to create access to a broader volume of bone. The tip of steerable device can be designed so as to be steerable for instance by rotation of steerable device . As illustrated in after accessing near the endplate or to the vertebral body itself in other embodiments the steerable device can be withdrawn and a delivery device can be inserted through sheath . Delivery device can have delivery tip which is curved or otherwise steerable. Delivery device can also include a reservoir and a plunger allowing for the delivery of a biological treatment out of delivery tip . shows an intermediate stage of the delivery process in which additional amounts of the biological treatment are delivered as the sheath and the delivery device are withdrawn from the access channel . In this manner the access channel can be backfilled with the biological treatment as the implements are withdrawn. Finally shown in is the biological treatment occupying a volume overlying an endplate of the vertebral body and also backfilled into the access channel .

Referring now to another method of injecting a biological treatment into a vertebral body and or an endplate is illustrated.

With reference now to an access channel is created in vertebral body just above the endplate using a bone penetrating implement for example a needle. After this access a sheath is provided into channel . A delivery device is then inserted through the lumen of sheath and is used to deliver a biological treatment into the vertebral body in a volume overlying the endplate. If desired or needed a steerable needle or drill can be used to create access to a broader volume of bone generally as described in conjunction with above. As well a backfilling procedure can be used to fill the access channel as the delivery device and sheath are removed. As shown in ultimately a volume of the biological treatment is delivered into the vertebral body overlying the endplate.

In other embodiments a biological treatment may be introduced into an area of a vertebral column such as a motion segment through a needle trocar assembly as described in the above referenced U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0031666. In still other embodiments a biological treatment may be introduced into an area of a vertebral column by extrusion through a dilated annular opening infusion through a catheter insertion through an opening created by trauma or surgical incision or by other means of invasive or minimally invasive deposition of materials into the area receiving the biological treatment.

According to certain embodiments described herein when treating a vertebral column with a biological treatment the load to be imposed on the treated area and or on surrounding areas is also considered. For example it can be noted whether the load imposed on a motion segment being treated would adversely affect the success of a biological treatment applied to the motion segment in achieving the desired repair regeneration reduction or prevention. By reducing the load imposed on the treated motion segment the biological treatment is provided an opportunity to perform its function in an area that is less stressed and therefore more receptive to the intended function of the biological treatment.

Thus to achieve an improved clinical outcome and a stable result biological treatments are applied in one or more of the anterior region anterior column region posterior region and spinous process region of a vertebral column while load bearing devices and systems for treatment of one or more of the anterior region anterior column region posterior region and spinous process region are also applied to provide a mechanical unloading of the region receiving the biological treatment.

Referring now to a combined treatment of a vertebral motion segment with a biological treatment and a load bearing device for treatment of the anterior region of the spine is illustrated.

A biological treatment has been applied to facet joint by injection with an appropriately sized syringe hypodermic needle assembly . Selection of an appropriately sized syringe hypodermic needle assembly for injection into the facet joints of a spine is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the facet joint are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

In the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment has also been applied to disc space which could include treatment of either or both of the nucleus pulposus and the annulus with an appropriately sized hypodermic needle . Selection of an appropriately sized hypodermic needle for injection into the disc space of a spine is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the disc space are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

Although two biological treatments and are illustrated the present disclosure contemplates and includes application of just one biological treatment or of two or more biological treatments. Moreover biological treatments can be applied in one or more of the anterior longitudinal ligament the vertebral bodies and the endplates of the vertebral bodies.

According to the embodiment illustrated in the treatment of facet joint and the disc space with biological treatments and is combined with an anterior device designed for treatment of the anterior region of the vertebral motion segment . The anterior device is represented in by anterior device however the appearance of anterior device is illustrative only and it is understood that a wide variety of anterior devices could be used with the present embodiments. Further it is contemplated that separately or in combination with biological treatment an interbody spacer not shown may be placed in the disc space to at least partially mechanically unload the facet and or a portion of the disc space.

Anterior device may be an elastic anterior tension band attachable to the adjacent vertebral bodies with bone screws . In other embodiments anterior device could comprise any synthetic or natural tissue based prostheses for replacing or supplementing the anterior longitudinal ligament. In still other embodiments anterior device could comprise anterior bone fixation plates for the cervical thoracic or lumbar vertebral regions. Such plates may include those offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. under brand names such as the ATLANTIS plate PREMIER plate ZEPHIR plate MYSTIC plate PYRAMID plate or DYNALOK CLASSIC plate CD HORIZON ECLIPSE.

Suitable anterior devices may be formed from a biocompatible material selected from metals polymers ceramics and tissue and combinations thereof. A suitable configuration could be a metal plate such as a titanium titanium alloy nickel titanium tantalum or stainless steel plate. Alternatively anterior devices may be formed of elastomer based devices or polymeric composite based devices that connect with two or more vertebrae. Anterior devices may also be formed of less rigid or more flexible materials such as polyaryletherketone PAEK based materials which includes polyetheretherketone PEEK polyetherketoneketone PEKK PEEK carbon composite polyetherimide polyimide polysulfone polyethylene polyester polylactide copolymers of poly L lactide and poly D lactide polyorthoester tyrosine polycarbonate polypolyurethane silicone polyolefin rubber etc. and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the anterior device may be bioresorbable or partially resorbable.

Anterior devices may also be formed of inelastic material such as braided tethers or woven textiles for example polyester or polyethylene or of elastic material such as rubber banding or plates sheets rods or tubing made of silicone or polyurethane. In still another alternative an anterior device may include annulus repair or replacement devices for the anterior portion of the annulus.

The selected anterior device may be connected to two or more vertebral bodies or vertebral endplates through the use of any connection mechanism such as bone screws staples sutures or adhesives or other applicable devices. The anterior device may be loaded in compression or tension depending upon the patient s indication or the performance of biological treatments such as biological treatments and or . For example an anterior plate may be installed in tension to be load bearing with respect to facet joint thereby reducing the load on facet joint where the biological treatment was introduced. Such a technique can be further enhanced with the use of an interbody spacer.

According to one embodiment a procedure for performing the methods described herein includes surgically accessing at least a portion of a patient s spine and implanting a load bearing device in the patient s spine. In one aspect the load bearing device is implanted into an area of the spine that is intact for example a motion segment where the anatomy has not been surgically disrupted. In another aspect the anatomy of the area of the spine in which the load bearing device is being implanted has been surgically disrupted for example a resection of the facet or the spinous process or even a discectomy has been performed.

Whether the spinal anatomy is intact or has been disrupted the load bearing device is implanted in a spine in a position so as to be at least partially load bearing with respect to the area that is to receive a biological treatment so that the device mechanically unloads all or a portion of the area to receive the biological treatment. For example a rigid anterior device may be placed on the anterior portion of the spine to transfer load away from the disc space and or the facets. In one aspect the facet joints and or the adjacent vertebral bodies surrounding the disc space are mechanically moved by placement of the mechanical unloading device to align the facet joint and or increase the distance between the adjacent vertebral bodies. After application of the mechanical unloading device a biological treatment is applied to at least one facet and or the disc space. In another aspect the above described steps may be reversed such that the biological treatment of the facet joint and or the disc space occurs first and the mechanical unloading occurs later.

Biological Treatment of Facet Joint and or Vertebral Body and or Endplate Combined with Anterior Column Systems

Referring now to a combined treatment of a vertebral motion segment with a biological treatment and a load bearing device for treatment of the anterior column region of the spine is illustrated.

A biological treatment has been introduced into facet joint by injection with an appropriately sized hypodermic needle . Selection of an appropriately sized hypodermic needle for injection into the facet joints of a spine is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for introducing biological treatment into the facet joint are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

In the embodiment illustrated in biological treatments and have also been applied to the vertebral bodies and endplates respectively. Suitable methods for introducing biological treatments and into the vertebral bodies and endplates are described above with respect to and A C. Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

Although three biological treatments and are illustrated the present disclosure contemplates and includes application of just one biological treatment or of two or more biological treatments. Moreover biological treatments can be applied in other areas of the spine for example biological treatments can be applied to the disc space including the nucleus and or the annulus of the disc and the anterior longitudinal ligament.

According to the embodiment illustrated in the treatment of facet joint the endplates and the vertebral bodies with biological treatments is combined with an anterior column device designed for treatment of the anterior column region of the vertebral motion segment . The anterior column device is represented in by an anterior column device designed for treatment of disc space however the appearance of anterior column device is illustrative only and it is understood that a wide variety of anterior column devices could be used with the present embodiments.

Anterior column device may be a prosthetic motion preserving disc such as those offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. under brand names such as MAVERICK BRYAN PRESTIGE or PRESTIGE LP. Single articulating surface motion preserving discs may be disclosed more fully in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 740 118 6 113 637 or 6 540 785 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. Double articulating surface motion preserving discs may be disclosed more fully in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 674 296 6 156 067 or 5 865 846 each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In some embodiments anterior column device may be a motion preserving interbody device that extends posteriorly from the interbody space and includes features for providing posterior motion. These types of bridged systems may be disclosed in U.S. Pub. Pat. App. Nos. 2005 0171610 2005 0171609 2005 0171608 2005 0154467 2005 0154466 2005 0154465 2005 0154464 2005 0154461 each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

According to other embodiments anterior column device may include rigid fusion devices such as those offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. under brand names such as INTERFIX cage INTERFIX RP cage LT cage CORNERSTONE spacer TELAMON spacer MDII and MDIII threaded bone dowels PRECISION GRAFT and PERIMETER ring spacers etc.

According to still other embodiments anterior column device may include a spherical ellipsoidal or similarly shaped disc replacement device which may be installed in the interbody space. Such devices may include the SATELLITE system offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. This type of device may be described in detail for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 478 822 which is incorporated by reference herein.

In still another embodiment anterior column device may be an elastically deformable device comprising a resilient or an elastomeric material such as silicone polyurethane polyolefin rubber or a resilient polymer and or may comprise a mechanical spring component. Such elastically deformable devices include those with an elastomeric core disposed between rigid outer plates as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 669 732 6 592 664 and 6 162 252 each of which is incorporated by reference. Such devices may also include the ACROFLEX lumber disc offered by or developed by Depuy Acromed Inc. In some embodiments the anterior column device may be bioresorbable or partially resorbable.

In still other embodiments anterior column device may include interbody motion preserving devices such as nucleus replacement implants that work in conjunction with all or portions of the natural annulus. Such nucleus replacement implants may include those offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc under a brand name such as NAUTILUS or offered by or developed by Raymedica Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. under brand names such as PDN SOLO and PDN SOLO XL . These types of nucleus replacement implants may be described in detail in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 620 196 and 5 674 295 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. Injectable nucleus replacement material including a polymer based system such as DASCOR by Disc Dynamics of Eden Prairie Minn. or a protein polymer system such as NuCore Injectable Nucleus by Spine Wave Inc. of Shelton Conn. may be alternatives for preserving interbody motion.

In still other embodiments anterior column device comprises a device for treating a vertebral body in the anterior column region of the spine. Devices for treating a vertebral body that are suitable for combination with the methods described herein include void creation devices and vertebral compression fracture realignment devices for vertebral body repair such as balloon expansion systems offered by or developed by Kyphon Inc. of Glendale Calif. Examples of such balloon expansion systems are disclosed in U.S. Pub. Nos. 2004 0102774 and 20040133280 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 969 888 and 5 108 404 all of which are incorporated by reference herein. Other void creation devices that utilize expandable cages or displacement systems may also be used for vertebral body repair. Such additional void creation systems may be disclosed in U.S. Published Pat. App. No. 2004 0153064 and 2005 0182417 and are incorporated by reference herein. In still another alternative vertebral body replacement devices or corpectomy devices may be used to replace an entire vertebrae or series of vertebrae. Such corpectomy systems may be of the type disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 702 453 5 776 197 5 5776 198 or 6 344 057 each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In still further embodiments anterior column device comprises a device for treating an endplate of a vertebral body in the anterior column region of the spine. Devices for treating an endplate that are suitable for combination with the methods described herein include but are not limited to endplate supplementation systems that use rigid or flexible devices such as metal plates with spikes or other attachment mechanisms to anchor the plates to existing bony tissue.

Any of the foregoing anterior column devices may be combined with any biological treatment. For example in certain embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable collagen containing stem cells and BMP 6 is applied to a facet joint in a vertebral column. A nucleus replacement implant such as a NAUTILUS brand implant Medtronic Inc. is inserted into the nucleus of a disc adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel containing chondrocytes and TGF beta 2 is applied to a facet joint. A prosthetic motion preserving disc such as a MAVERICK brand implant Medtronic Inc. is inserted into the disc space adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In still other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable polyethylene glycol gel containing fibroblasts and TGF beta is applied to a facet joint. An injectable collagen is inserted into the disc space adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In yet other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable porcine based collagen containing anti TNF alpha and ILGF is applied to a facet joint. An injectable nucleus replacement material such as the polymer based system DASCOR Disc Dynamics is applied to the disc space adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

Anterior column device may be loaded in compression or tension depending upon the patient s indication or the performance of other implanted systems or treatments. These interbody systems may provide a desired level of intervertebral disc space distraction depending upon the patient s indication. For example an interbody device or system may be sized or filled to reduce the load on the facet joint where the biological treatment was introduced.

According to one embodiment a procedure for performing the methods described herein includes surgically accessing at least a portion of a patient s spine and implanting a load bearing device in the patient s spine. In one aspect the load bearing device is implanted so as to mechanically unload all or a portion of the facet joint and or the disc space which receives a biological treatment. In another aspect the load bearing device is implanted into an area of the spine that is intact for example a motion segment where the anatomy has not been surgically disrupted. In another aspect the anatomy of the area of the spine in which the load bearing device is being implanted has been surgically disrupted for example a resection of the facet or the spinous process or even a discectomy has been performed.

Whether the spinal anatomy is intact or has been disrupted the load bearing device is device is implanted in to the spine in a position so as to be at least partially load bearing with respect to the area that is to receive a biological treatment. The device thus mechanically unloads all or a portion of the area to receive the biological treatment. For example a motion preserving device may be placed in the disc space located in the anterior column portion of the spine to transfer load away from the disc space and or the facets. In one aspect the facet joints and or the adjacent vertebral bodies surrounding the disc space are mechanically moved by placement of the mechanical unloading device to align the facet joint and or increase the distance between the adjacent vertebral bodies. After application of the mechanical unloading device a biological treatment is applied to at least one facet and or the disc space. In another aspect the above described steps may be reversed such that the biological treatment of the facet joint and or the disc space occurs first and the mechanical unloading occurs later.

Referring now to a combined treatment of a vertebral motion segment with a biological treatment and a load bearing device for treatment of the posterior region of the spine is illustrated.

A biological treatment has been applied to facet joint by injection with an appropriately sized hypodermic needle . Selection of an appropriately sized hypodermic needle for injection into the facet joints of a spine is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the facet joint are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

In the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment has also been applied to disc space which could include treatment of either or both of the nucleus and the annulus of the disc with an appropriately sized hypodermic needle . Selection of an appropriately sized hypodermic needle for injection into the disc space is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the disc space are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

Although two biological treatments and are illustrated the present disclosure contemplates and includes application of just one biological treatment or of two or more biological treatments. Moreover biological treatments can be applied in other areas of the spine for example biological treatments can be applied to the anterior longitudinal ligament the endplates and the vertebral bodies.

According to the embodiment illustrated in the treatment of facet joint and the disc space with biological treatments and is combined with a posterior device designed for treatment of the posterior region of the vertebral motion segment . The posterior device is represented in by posterior device however the appearance of posterior device is illustrative only and it is understood that a wide variety of posterior devices could be used with the present embodiments.

According to some embodiments a posterior device may extend along the posterior or posterolateral side of the vertebral column and may span one or more vertebral motion segments.

In other embodiments a posterior device may be a rigid fixation system such as a hook rod or screw system which are offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. under brands such as CD HORIZON CD HORIZON SEXTANT CD HORIZON M8 CD HORIZON LEGACY CD HORIZON ANTARES COLORADO 2 EQUATION VERTEX TSRH and TSRH 3D.

In yet other embodiments a posterior device may be a semi rigid or flexible system offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. under brand names such as FLEXTANT or AGILE or offered by or developed by Zimmer Inc. of Warsaw Ind. such as the Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System. These types of flexible systems may be disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Pub. Nos. 2005 0171540 and 2005 0131405. These particular systems may replace or supplement natural facet joints and may attach to the posterior features of adjacent vertebrae using bone screws.

Still other embodiments of a posterior device include Archus Othopedics Inc. s TOTAL FACET ARTHROPLASTY SYSTEM TFAS or similar devices performing facet functions. Still other embodiments of a posterior device include facet repair devices such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 949 123 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

According to still other embodiments a posterior device may be a dampener system such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 375 823 5 540 688 5 480 401 or U.S. Pat. App. Pub. Nos. 2003 0055427 and 2004 0116927 each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In still another embodiment posterior device may include annulus repair or replacement devices for the posterior portion of the annulus. Additionally posterior device may also be a rod and screw system that uses flexible PEEK rods.

In still other embodiments posterior device may be made of flexible materials such as woven or braided textile based devices that connect with two or more vertebrae. These flexible materials may be formed of natural graft material or synthetic alternatives. Posterior device may also be formed of inelastic material such as braided tethers or woven fabric of polyester or polyethylene or of elastic material such as rubber banding or plates sheets rods or tubing made of silicone or polyurethane.

Posterior device may also be formed from rigid materials such as titanium titanium alloys nickel titanium tantalum stainless steel and combinations thereof. Alternatively posterior device may be formed of less rigid or more flexible materials such as polyaryletherketone PAEK based materials which includes polyetheretherketone PEEK polyetherketoneketone PEKK PEEK carbon composite etc. polyetherimide polyimide polysulfone polyethylene polyester polylactide copolymers of poly L lactide and poly D lactide polyorthoester tyronsine polycarbonate polypolyurethane silicone etc. In some embodiments the posterior device may be bioresorbable or partially resorbable.

Any of the foregoing posterior devices may be combined with any biological treatment. For example in certain embodiments a facet joint in a vertebral column receives a biological treatment. In one such embodiment a biological treatment comprising injectable collagen containing stem cells and BMP 6 is applied to a facet joint in a vertebral column. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as an AGILE brand system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel containing chondrocytes and TGF beta 2 is applied to a facet joint. A rod and screw system that uses flexible PEEK rods is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In still other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable polyethylene glycol gel containing fibroblasts and TGF beta is applied to a facet joint. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as an AGILE brand system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In yet other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable porcine based collagen containing anti TNF alpha and ILGF is applied to a facet joint. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as a Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System Zimmer Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

According to still other embodiments an intervertebral disc space receives a biological treatment. In one such embodiment a biological treatment comprising injectable allogenic collagen containing stem cells BMP 2 and BMP 6 is applied to an intervertebral disc. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as an AGILE brand system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the disc receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc space.

In other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel containing stem cells and BMP 7 OP 1 is applied to a disc space. A rod and screw system that uses flexible PEEK rods is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the disc space receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc space.

In still other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable polyethylene glycol gel containing chondrocytes and TGF beta 3 is applied to a disc space. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as an AGILE brand system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the disc space receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc space.

In yet other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable porcine based collagen containing chondrocytes TGF beta 1 and PDGF is applied to a disc space. A posterior device comprising a flexible system such as a Dynesys Dynamic Stabilization System Zimmer Inc. is applied to the posterior column region adjacent to the disc space receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc space.

Posterior device may be connected to two or more vertebral bodies or vertebral endplates through the use of any connection mechanism such as bone screws staples sutures or adhesives. The posterior device may be loaded in compression or tension depending upon the patient s indication or the performance of other implanted systems or treatments. For example a flexible posterior device attached to adjacent vertebrae with bone screws may be installed in compression to reduce the load on the disc space or facet joint where a biological treatment was applied.

According to one embodiment a procedure for performing the methods described herein includes surgically accessing at least a portion of a patient s spine and implanting a load bearing device in the patient s spine. In one aspect the load bearing device is implanted so as to mechanically unload all or a portion of the facet joint and or the disc space which receives a biological treatment. In another aspect the load bearing device is implanted into an area of the spine that is intact for example a motion segment where the anatomy has not been surgically disrupted. In another aspect the anatomy of the area of the spine in which the load bearing device is being implanted has been surgically disrupted for example a resection of the facet or the spinous process or even a discectomy has been performed.

Whether the spinal anatomy is intact or has been disrupted the load bearing device is implanted in to the spine in a position so as to be at least partially load bearing with respect to the area that is to receive a biological treatment. The device thus mechanically unloads all or a portion of the area to receive the biological treatment. For example a rigid fixation system may be placed on the posterior portion of the spine to transfer load away from the disc space and or the facets. In one aspect the facet joints and or the adjacent vertebral bodies defining the disc space are mechanically moved by placement of the mechanical unloading device to align the facet joint and or increase the distance between the adjacent vertebral bodies. After application of the mechanical unloading device a biological treatment is performed on at least one facet and or the disc space. In another aspect the above described steps may be reversed such that the biological treatment of the facet joint and or the disc space occurs first and the mechanical unloading occurs later.

Referring now to a combined treatment of a vertebral motion segment with a biological treatment and a load bearing device for treatment of the spinous process region of the spine is illustrated.

A biological treatment has been applied to facet joint by injection with an appropriately sized hypodermic needle . Selection of an appropriately sized hypodermic needle for injection into the facet joints of a spine is within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the facet joint are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

In the embodiment illustrated in a biological treatment has also been applied to disc space which could include treatment of either or both of the nucleus and the annulus of the disc. Suitable methods for injecting the biological treatment into the disc space are described above with respect to . Other methods as described herein and as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may also be used.

Although two biological treatments and are illustrated the present disclosure contemplates and includes application of just one biological treatment or of two or more biological treatments. Moreover biological treatments can be applied in other areas of the spine for example biological treatments can be applied to the anterior longitudinal ligament the endplates and the vertebral bodies.

According to the embodiment illustrated in the treatment of the facet joint and disc space with biological treatments and respectively is combined with a spinous process device designed for treatment of the spinous process region of the vertebral motion segment . The spinous process device is represented in by spinous process device however the appearance of spinous process device is illustrative only and it is understood that a wide variety of spinous process devices could be used with the present embodiments.

For example a spinous process device for treating spinous process region may extend between adjacent spinous processes and or extend around or through adjacent spinous processes. As one example spinous process devices may include rigid interspinous process systems such as the Spire Plate system offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. or the X Stop system offered by or developed by St. Francis Medical Technologies of Alameda Calif. Such systems may be disclosed in U.S. Published App. No. 2003 0216736 or in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 836 948 5 860 977 or 5 876 404 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. Spinous process devices may also include semi rigid spacer systems having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible ligaments or tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes. Such devices may include the DIAM system offered by or developed by Medtronic Inc. or the Wallis system offered by or developed by Abbott Laboratories of Abbott Park Ill. Semi rigid spacer systems may be disclosed in greater detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 626 944 and 6 761 720 each of which is incorporated by reference herein. Alternatively semi rigid spacer systems may have rigid interspinous process sections formed of materials such as titanium but incorporating flexible ligament or tethering devices that permit a limited amount of flexion extension motion at the vertebral joint.

In still another alternative spinous process devices may include artificial ligaments for connecting two or more spinous processes. In another alternative spinous process devices may be made of flexible materials such as woven or braided textile based tethers that connect with two or more vertebrae. Elastic or rubber like materials may also be used in the spinous process region. Suitable spinous process devices may be formed from a variety of materials such as biocompatible metals polymers ceramics and tissue and combinations thereof. Suitable biocompatible metals include but are not limited to titanium titanium alloys nickel titanium tantalum stainless steel and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the spinous process device may be bioresorbable or partially resorbable.

Any of the foregoing spinous process devices may be combined with any biological treatment. For example in certain embodiments a facet joint in a vertebral column receives a biological treatment. In one such embodiment a biological treatment comprising injectable collagen containing stem cells and TGF beta 2 is applied to a facet joint in a vertebral column. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a DIAM system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel containing chondrocytes and BMP 7 OP 1 is applied to a facet joint. A spinous process device comprising a rigid interspinous process system such as the X Stop system St. Francis Medical Technologies is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In still other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable polyethylene glycol gel containing fibroblasts and TGF beta 1 is applied to a facet joint. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a Wallis system Abbott Laboratories is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

In yet other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable GAG containing chondrocytes and PDGF is applied to a facet joint. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a DIAM system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the facet joint receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated facet joint.

According to still other embodiments an intervertebral disc space receives a biological treatment. In one such embodiment a biological treatment comprising injectable allogenic collagen containing stem cells and PDGF is applied to an intervertebral disc. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a DIAM system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the disc receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc.

In other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel containing chondrocytes TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 is applied to an intervertebral disc. A spinous process device comprising a rigid interspinous process system such as the X Stop system St. Francis Medical Technologies is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the disc space receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc.

In still other embodiments a biological treatment comprising injectable polyethylene glycol gel containing fibroblasts and PDGF is applied to an intervertebral disc. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a Wallis system Abbott Laboratories is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the disc space receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc space.

In yet other embodiments a biological treatment comprising an injectable porcine based collagen containing chondrocytes and BMP 12 is applied to a disc space. A spinous process device comprising a semi rigid spacer system having flexible interspinous process sections and flexible tethers for attaching around or through spinous processes such as a DIAM system Medtronic Inc. is applied to the spinous process region adjacent to the disc receiving the biological treatment to provide a mechanical unloading to the treated disc.

Depending upon the device chosen the spinous process device may be installed through open surgical procedures minimally invasive procedures injection or other methods known in the art. The spinous process device may be loaded in compression or tension depending upon the patient s indication or the performance of other implanted systems or biological treatments. For example a spinous process device may be installed in compression to reduce the load on the facet joint or other area where a biological treatment was applied.

According to one embodiment a procedure for performing the methods described herein includes surgically accessing at least a portion of a patient s spine and implanting a load bearing device in the patient s spine. In one aspect the load bearing device is implanted so as to mechanically unload all or a portion of the facet joint and or the disc space which receives a biological treatment. In another aspect the load bearing device is implanted into an area of the spine that is intact for example a motion segment where the anatomy has not been surgically disrupted. In yet another aspect the anatomy of the area of the spine in which the load bearing device is being implanted has been surgically disrupted for example a resection of the facet or the spinous process or even a discectomy has been performed.

Whether the spinal anatomy is intact or has been disrupted the load bearing device is implanted in to the spine in a position so as to be at least partially load bearing with respect to the area that is to receive a biological treatment. The device thus mechanically unloads all or a portion of the area to receive the biological treatment. For example a rigid interspinous process system may be placed on the spinous process region of the spine to transfer load away from the disc space and or the facets. In one aspect the facet joints and or the adjacent vertebral bodies surrounding the disc space are mechanically moved by placement of the mechanical unloading device to align the facet joint and or increase the distance between the adjacent vertebral bodies. After application of the mechanical unloading device a biological treatment is applied to at least one facet and or the disc space. In another aspect the above described steps may be reversed such that the biological treatment of the facet joint and or the disc space occurs first and the mechanical unloading occurs later.

Although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail above those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of this disclosure. Accordingly all such modifications and alternative are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such modifications and equivalent constructions or methods do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

For example each of the following patent applications are incorporated herein by reference as each describes spinal devices that can be applied to the anterior anterior column posterior or spinous process regions of the vertebral column and that can be used to unload an area treated with a biological treatment as described herein.

In addition each of the following applications describes suitable biological treatments that can be applied to an area of the vertebral column and spinal devices that can be applied to the anterior anterior column posterior or spinous process regions of the vertebral column to unload the treated area. Each of the following applications was filed concurrently with the present application assigned to the same assignee and each is hereby incorporated by reference.

It is understood that all spatial references such as horizontal vertical top inner outer bottom left right anterior posterior superior inferior upper and lower are for illustrative purposes only and can be varied within the scope of the disclosure. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the elements described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent elements.

