---

title: Firezone fumetight seal
abstract: A method and apparatus for fireproofing a doorway, more particularly, the present invention relates to a gasket structure capable of sealing a doorway in the event of a fire. The gasket structure includes an outer silicon rubber core having a substantially D-shaped cross-section for mounting to a gasket retainer with a substantially U-shaped channel to a door frame. The gasket also includes an inner core of intumescent material within the outer core. The gasket is designed so that if the outer silicone rubber deteriorates because of fire, the intumescent material undergoes voluminous expansion to fill up voids left by the deterioration of the outer silicone rubber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225553&OS=08225553&RS=08225553
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08225553
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for fireproofing a doorway more particularly the present invention relates to a gasket structure capable of sealing a doorway in the event of a fire.

U.S. Navy fire zone doors are utilized in fire zone boundaries where egress through bulkheads is needed but watertight integrity is not required. These doors must be as close to fume tight as possible. Typically the doors are formed from a hollow panel filled with a heat insulating material that reduces heat transfer from one side of the door panel to the other during a fire. Gaskets are typically used around the opening of the door in order to approach a fume tight status.

Current methods used to prevent the spread of fire and the passage of smoke through doorways include the use of gaskets that have a core made of silicone rubber covered with a stainless steel wire reinforced fiberglass yarn that is over coated with silicone rubber. The gasket is attached to a gasket retainer. This prior art gasket tends to be very rigid and difficult to install due to irregularities that typically exist in the bulkhead in which the frame is installed. Often it is difficult to obtain a continuous seal around the perimeter of the door opening thus defeating the purpose of obtaining a fume tight seal.

A softer less rigid gasket would improve the ability to seal the doorway compensating for any irregularities in the bulkhead in which the fire zone doors are installed. As outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 5 553 871 a softer rubber the type ZZ R 765 gasket was developed for providing a watertight seal. Softer rubber based products as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 5 553 871 would allow for easier installation however softer rubber based products are not suited to withstand the temperature requirements in working conditions for prolonged periods of time. Consequently there is a need for a more pliable gasket arrangement that could withstand the rigors associated with a fire.

The present invention addresses aspects of problems outlined above. Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide a method and apparatus for sealing a doorway.

In one aspect the invention is a fumetight gasket for use in a doorway. In this aspect the gasket comprises an elongated member having a substantially D shaped cross section for mounting to a substantially U shaped gasket retainer in a door frame. The elongated member has a substantially D shaped outer core that comprises silicone rubber. The fumetight gasket also includes an inner core within the substantially D shaped outer core. In this aspect the inner core comprises an intumescent material for filling doorway voids during fires when the inner core is exposed by the deterioration of the outer core.

In another aspect the invention is a fire zone doorway arrangement. The arrangement includes a door frame and a gasket retainer attached to the door frame. In this aspect the gasket retainer has a substantially U shaped channel with a back wall and two oppositely situated side walls. The arrangement further includes a gasket having an elongated member having a substantially D shaped cross section for mounting to the substantially U shaped channel. The elongated member has a silicone rubber outer core having a substantially D shaped cross section and an inner core within the outer substantially D shaped outer core. The inner core includes an intumescent material. In this aspect the gasket is mounted in the retainer channel. The arrangement also includes a fireproofed door with a door panel mounted to the door frame with the gasket contacting the door panel thereby sealing the doorway when the door is in a closed position.

In another aspect the invention is method of sealing a doorway. The method includes the steps of providing a door frame and attaching a fireproofed door on the door frame. In this aspect the method also includes the step of attaching a gasket retainer with a substantially U shaped groove to the door frame and mounting a gasket in the substantially U shaped groove of the retainer. The gasket comprises an elongated member having a substantially D shaped cross section for mounting to the gasket retainer in the door frame. The elongated member has an outer core having a substantially D shaped cross section. The outer core includes a flat back side two side portions and a front side. In this aspect the gasket is provided with an inner core within the substantially D shaped outer core. The inner core comprises an intumescent material for filling doorway voids during fires. The gasket is inserted into the U shaped groove with the flat back side of the gasket contacting a back wall of the substantially U shaped groove and the front side of the gasket contacting the fireproofed door thereby sealing the doorway when the door is in a closed position.

The outer core may be a silicone rubber material preferably of a Commercial Item Description A A 59588 type. The A A 59588 is preferably class 3B grade 30 but may also be of other A A 59588 silicone rubber classes and grades. The silicone rubber used for the gasket is more easily manipulated as compared with other silicone rubbers with higher durometer values. The A A 59588 silicone rubber also has a longer life expectancy and requires less maintenance than most conventionally used silicone rubbers.

The inner core of the present embodiment comprises an intumescent material which expands upon exposure to escalated temperatures. The intumescent material may comprise any known intumescent chemical such as intercalated graphite mica perlite vermiculite hydrated sodium silicate a phosphorus compound and combinations thereof. An intumescent material may be chosen depending on the operating conditions and the required amount of expansion.

As shown in a fireproofed door is hinged at to the door frame with the door frame surrounding the outer circumference of the door . The door may comprise a hollow panel filled with a heat insulating material that reduces heat transfer from one side of the door panel to the other during a fire. The entire arrangement is sealed or fireproofed by introducing the gasket into the gasket retainer . As shown in the gasket is placed in the U shaped channel of the retainer so that the flat back side of the gasket is inserted into the U shaped channel. Consequently the flat back side of the gasket contacts the back wall of the U shaped channel. When in this working position the front portion of the gasket contacts the door forming a sealed relationship.

The method and apparatus as outlined above is geared towards preventing the spread of fire and smoke through doorways. The overall shape including the protruding front ends the dimensions and material characteristics such as compressibility of the gaskets improve the ability to seal. As outlined above the gaskets are positioned with the front sides pressed against the door to provide a sealed airtight relationship with the door . When there is a fire the gaskets are able to withstand tremendous heat for shortened periods of time. This is mainly due to the outer layer which is formed of A A 59588 silicone rubber Class 3B Grade 30. However if the gasket is exposed to fire for a prolonged period the outer core may eventually char and expose the inner to higher temperatures. The inherent properties of the intumescent inner core will result in the expansion of the inner core of about twenty to about forty times its original volume. This voluminous expansion of the inner core will fill up any voids left by the deterioration of the silicone rubber outer core retaining the fumetight seal.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

