---

title: Rail synthetic vision system
abstract: A synthetic image is produced which will be viewed by an operator of a train to provide the operator with important information indicative of the environment to be encountered by the train during subsequent movement of the train. This information includes information about upcoming track and highway crossings. The synthetic image may be utilized during all periods of operation of the train but will be particularly desirable during night and during periods of bad weather, such as rain, snow and fog, when normal vision is limited. The system utilizes accurate measurement of the location of the train, accurate knowledge of the path of the track and accurate knowledge of placement of track and highway crossings. Automated horn soundings, or monitoring of manual operator activations, significantly enhance safety at such track and highway crossings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150568&OS=08150568&RS=08150568
owner: 
number: 08150568
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20061116
---
Generally the invention relates to systems for production of a realistic graphical view of an environment to be encountered during movement of a vehicle. More specifically the invention relates to such systems for use with rail vehicles to provide the operator of locomotives with useful information about conditions to be encountered including information about upcoming track and highway crossings.

Rail based vehicles travel along fixed position rail tracks. Typically such rail tracks have numerous junctures where a selection of divergent rail paths may be taken. Typically rail based vehicles travel along a respective path during a specific trip with various predetermined path options being implemented. Numerous segments of rail tracks exist throughout the world with many of these segments located in the United States of America. Most if not all of such rail tracks have been precisely surveyed with detailed identifying data encoded in computational databases. Applicable identifying data including information sufficient to determine precise coordinates of location and elevation along a path of a respective section of the rail track. Such identifying data may include precise path descriptions track branching descriptions track intersection point descriptions with other tracks land based roads and highways bridge descriptions and tunnel descriptions.

Positive train control PTC systems are integrated command control communications and information systems conventionally known in the art for controlling train movements with safety security precision and efficiency. Positive train control systems improve railroad safety by significantly reducing the probability of collisions between trains casualties to roadway workers and damage to their equipment and over speed accidents.

Positive train control systems may have digital data link communications networks continuous and accurate positioning systems on board computers with digitized maps on locomotives and maintenance of way equipment in cab displays throttle brake interfaces on locomotives wayside interface units at switches and wayside detectors and control center computers and displays.

Various methods are known in the art to determine a location of an object including a moving object. GPS global positioning system devices are well known in the art to determine a position measurement.

Radio frequency identification RFID tags are known to store information which may be retrieved by a receiver. RFID tags may be positioned in fixed locations with the stored information indicative of the location of the respective RFID tag. Radio frequency identification RFID is an identification method relying on storing and remotely retrieving data using devices called radio frequency identification tags or transponders. A radio frequency identification tag can be positioned relative to a location attached to an object or inserted into an object animal or person. Once deployed the radio frequency identification tag may be identified using radio waves. Chip based radio frequency identification tags contain silicon chips and antennas. Passive radio frequency identification tags require no internal power source whereas active radio frequency identification tags require a power source.

Passive radio frequency identification tags have no internal power supply. The minute electrical current induced in the antenna by an incoming radio frequency signal provides just enough power for the complementary symmetry metal oxide semiconductor CMOS integrated circuit in the tag to power up and transmit a response. Most passive tags signal by backscattering the carrier signal from the reader. This means that the aerial or antenna has to be designed to both collect power from the incoming signal and also to transmit the outbound backscatter signal. The response of a passive radio frequency identification tag does not have to be just a simple identification number but can contain nonvolatile storing data.

Active radio frequency identification tags have their own internal power source. Active radio frequency signal tags are typically much more reliable than passive tags due to the ability of active tags to conduct a session with a reader. Active radio frequency signal tags due to their onboard power supply also transmit at higher power levels than passive radio frequency signal tags allowing them to be more effective in radio frequency challenged environments like water metal or at longer distances. Many active radio frequency signal tags have practical ranges of hundreds of feet with a battery life of up to 10 years. Active tags typically have much larger memories than passive radio frequency signal tags. Additionally active radio frequency signal may have the ability to store information sent by the transceiver.

Numerous methods exist to improve rail based vehicle safety. Various systems and methods have been proposed to inform the operator of a location of the train along the track including orientation to rail track and highway crossings and speed of the train. Various systems and methods have been proposed to increase safety at rail track and highway crossings. Many of these systems and methods involve notifying or otherwise alerting the operators of highway vehicles and pedestrians of the approach of the train.

Traditionally the operator of a rail based vehicle activates the audible horn sound approximately one quarter mile from a rail track and highway crossing. The horn warns motorists and pedestrians approaching the intersection that the rail based vehicle is approaching. To be heard over this distance the audible horn sound must be very loud. This combination of loud horns and the length along the tracks that the horn is sounded creates a large area adversely impacted by the horn noise. In urban areas this area likely includes many nearby residential dwellings.

An innovation in rail track and highway crossing warning involves providing a similar audible warning to motorists and pedestrians by using two stationary horns mounted at the crossing. Each horn directs its sound toward the approaching roadway. The land based horn system typically is activated using the same track signal circuitry as the gate arms and bells located at the crossing. Once the land based horns are activated a strobe light begins flashing to inform the rail based vehicle operator that the horns has been activated and are working. Horn volume data collected near the crossings clearly demonstrate the significant reduction of land area negatively impacted by using the land based horn system. Residents overwhelmingly accepted the land based horn systems and noted a significant improvement in their quality of life. Motorists also prefer the land based horn systems. The rail based vehicle operators rated these crossings slightly safer compared to the same crossings before the change to the land based horn system.

Various automated crossing guards deployment with audio and visual alerting having been proposed. Many crossings particularly in rural areas lack crossing arms which are lowered to block traffic while trains pass. Various train mounted horn soundings are mandated when approaching crossings to warn highway vehicle operators of the approach of the train. Typically such train mounted horn soundings are manually activated by the operator of the train although automated activation systems are known in the art. Due to the extremely long stopping distance of typical trains depending upon various factors including speed of the train and weight of the train it typically falls to the highway vehicle operators to remain out of the path of the train. Therefore it is of paramount importance to provide proper audio warning of the approach of trains. This is complicated due to a strong desire of train operators not to unduly disturb persons residing near rail track and highway crossings with premature activation of horn sounding when approaching the crossing. Further complicating such horn soundings is that trains travel at various speeds depending upon many factors when passing respective crossings. Additionally trains operate around the clock including at night when visibility is limited to the operator of the train. Trains also operate in all weather conditions including during heavy rain during snow storms including white out conditions and during periods when dense fog is present. These conditions often cause the operator to come upon a crossing without the desired time interval to properly activate the horn soundings. Various systems and methods have been proposed to notify the operator of the train to manually activate the horn soundings or to automatically activate the horn soundings. In the field of automated activation of the horn soundings when approaching crossings conventionally known systems typically rely upon a fixed point along the track which when arrived at activates the horn soundings. These systems typically do not afford the capacity to factor in other relevant information such as the speed of the train the weight or length of the train and conditions affecting visibility such as the time of day or night.

As can be seen various attempts have been made to improve safety of the operation of trains including such operation at track and highway crossings. These attempts have been less efficient than desired. As such it may be appreciated that there continues to be a need for a system which provides relevant data to the operator of the train in a visual format which the operator can readily understand and utilize in any operating condition including at night and during periods of adverse weather conditions. The present invention substantially fulfills these needs.

In view of the foregoing disadvantages inherent in the known types of safety systems for rail based vehicles your applicant has devised a rail synthetic vision system for an operator of a rail based vehicle. The rail synthetic vision system presents a produced image indicative of the environment to be encountered by the rail based vehicle during subsequent movement of the rail based vehicle for use by the operator. The rail synthetic vision system has production and display means and presentation means. The production and display means provides the operator with a produced realistic graphical view indicative of the rail track and at least select surroundings to be encountered during movement of the rail based vehicle. The operator views a synthetic image indicative of the environment to be encountered by the rail based vehicle during subsequent movement of the rail based vehicle. The presentation means provides the operator with information about upcoming rail track and highway crossings prior to the rail based vehicle arriving at a respective rail track and highway crossing.

My invention resides not in any one of these features per se but rather in the particular combinations of them herein disclosed and it is distinguished from the prior art in these particular combinations of these structures for the functions specified.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are of course additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important therefore that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

It is therefore a primary object of the present invention to provide an operator of a rail based vehicle with a produced graphical view of the rail track ahead.

a to provide for the produced image to be available to the operator of the train during night when ordinary vision is limited.

b to provide for the produced image to be available to the operator of the train during adverse weather conditions when ordinary vision is limited.

c to provide for a rail synthetic vision system which will ensure that proper horn soundings occur at track and highway crossings to significantly enhance safety of land based vehicles and pedestrians at the crossings during passage of trains.

d to provide for the system to activate the horn soundings at precise locations and times during approach of the train to the crossing during passage by the crossing and subsequent to the passage of the train beyond the crossing.

e to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to ensure that horn blowing sequencing according to the established railway standards on approaching railway crossings occurs either automatically or by prompting the operator to perform the soundings.

f to provide for a rail synthetic vision system which can accurately determine a real time position of the train during operation of the train to permit accurate production of the produced image for use by the operator of the train.

i to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to utilize a database containing precise locations of the rail track and the crossings during production of the synthetic image.

j to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to utilize a radio frequency identification RFID tag system having RFID tags distributed along the path of the track at precisely identified locations and a receiver positioned on the train to provide for determining the real time position of the train during operation of the train including in tunnels.

k to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to provide precision millimeter accuracy determination of location utilizing GPS Global Positioning System components and or RFID Radio Frequency Identification components.

l to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to notify the operator of the train about required operator performed actions which have not been performed at the required occasion including horn soundings at track and highway crossings.

m to provide for the graphical view of the rail track ahead to display information about upcoming railway crossings.

n to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to display information about the distance and or estimated time to the next crossing.

o to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to display precision information regarding the rail based vehicle including speed of the vehicle.

p to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to provide excellent information to the rail based vehicle operators in rural areas where track and highway crossing information routinely available to the operator is minimal.

q to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to reduce train and highway vehicle collision accidents due to train operator negligence and reduce litigation costs for the railroad companies.

r to provide for the rail synthetic vision system to support modern positive train control PTC systems by providing pin point accuracy position solutions regarding train track and crossing.

These together with other objects of the invention along with the various features of novelty which characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a better understanding of the invention its operating advantages and the specific objects attained by its uses reference should be had to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter in which there is illustrated the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Many different systems having features of the present invention are possible. The following description describes the preferred embodiment of select features of those systems and various combinations thereof. These features may be deployed in various combinations to arrive at various desired working configurations of systems.

Reference is hereafter made to the drawings where like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the various views.

A computer based rail synthetic vision system R SVS of the present invention provides an operator of a rail based vehicle with a very realistic graphical view of the rail track to be encountered in a two dimensional view or a three dimensional view or various combinations thereof. Preferably the operator display will present the operator of the rail based vehicle with a three dimensional graphical representation of a perspective view from the vehicle in the direction of travel. The point of view of the perspective view may have any desired elevational height relative to the vehicle desired including significantly above the actual height of the vehicle. Two dimensional views may overlay the primary three dimensional view with relevant information which will assist the operator during operation of the vehicle. Of course such information may be presented on as many operator displays as desired.

The system may provide the operator with many types of information including information about upcoming crossings. If desired the system may automatically activate rail crossing horn soundings with great precision. Alternatively the system may notify the operator when such actions are to be manually performed. The system may also monitor for manual performance of required task by the operator. If the operator fails to manually perform those tasks including the rail crossing horn soundings the system may notify the operator of the task to be performed or the system may implement activation of the task.

The system will operate irrespective of the weather conditions location on earth or time of the day. The system is indispensable at night and in harsh weather conditions that limit naked eye visibility. This is particularly desirable when the rail based vehicle approaches a rail track and highway crossing where a government mandated horn sounding sequence is required to be performed by the operator. The system is also quite precise enough for usage in remote control operation rail vehicles where the operator is in a remote operating location.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention contain the following major components a track database a mathematical track model a navigation system graphical display program display means and optionally a rail axial speed sensor.

A rail synthetic vision system provides for presenting information to an operator of a rail based vehicle . The information presented to the operator of rail based vehicle will be based at least in part on accurate determinations of position estimates of rail based vehicle during travel along a rail track . The information presented to the operator of rail based vehicle will include a produced image indicative of the environment to be encountered by rail based vehicle during subsequent movement of rail based vehicle along rail track . Produced images will be presented in a continuous manner presenting visual information in real time to the operator of rail based vehicle . Rail synthetic vision system may provide additional information to the operator of rail based vehicle as desired.

Rail synthetic vision system in the preferred embodiment depicted contains a track database a navigation system a mathematical track model program graphical display program an operator display and a rail axial speed sensor .

It is a requirement of the present invention that data be available to the system indicative of a location and a path of rail tracks upon which the rail based vehicle will travel and indicative of at least locational positions of track and highway crossings. The provided information will be stored in a track database. Additional information may be provided within the track database indicative of other locational positions of associated objects and events such as routine stopping points bridges and tunnels. The term track database is not intended to be limited to a single storage file but may extend to a series of associated storage files. Certain of the data contained in the track database may be generally stable and not be updated after initial creation. Certain of the data contained in the track database may be routinely or even constantly updated and changed depending upon changing conditions.

Many computational arrangements are known in the art to provide for storage and retrieval of information and many of these may be utilized with the present invention. The track database will be accessible by the system during operation of the rail based vehicle. Storage of the data may occur within equipment carried by the rail based vehicle within equipment at a remote location or locations or a combination thereof.

Track database see contains a multiplicity of records such as and each containing information indicative of a physical location and respectively along rail track see . Track database is built from track survey data using method conventionally known in the art. Using record as an example a longitudinal reference a latitude reference and an elevational reference identify each location in each record. Additionally a condition reference indicates a general physical condition of rail track for each respective record. As an example condition reference indicates that rail track at physical location is along a generally flat rural area. Other references for respective points may indicate that rail track is within a tunnel on a bridge over water on a bridge over a highway under a highway overpass at a highway crossing or any other definable condition. Additionally each record will have a unique reference for identification purpose. A multiplicity of records such as those depicted in defines a path see of rail track utilized by rail based vehicle .

It is a requirement of the present invention that an estimate of a current position of the rail based vehicle on the rail track be determined by the system. Many location determining systems are known in the art to provide an estimate of the current position of an object and many of these systems may be utilized with the present invention. The term position measurement refers to an initial determination of a position as made by a component of a navigation system.

In a very preferred embodiment of the system two 2 unique position determining methods are employed. This provides for a position determination if either method fails or is unavailable for various reasons. More importantly it provides for a computational comparison of the distinct results of the two 2 position determining methods to arrive at finding a best estimate of the current position of the rail based vehicle.

Various system are known in the art to permit a ground based mobile unit to determine within various ranges of accuracy data corresponding to the current location of the ground based mobile unit and many of these may be employed with the present invention.

Satellite navigation systems provide for a receiver to determine the location of the receiver to within a few yards. Generally this location will be represented as longitude latitude and altitude. These systems utilize signals which are continually transmitted by radio from satellites of the system in orbit. The transmitted signals each contain a reference to the position of the satellite and a reference to the precise time. The receiver performs computational processes upon these signals to arrive at the data indicative of the location of the receiver. The global positioning system as conventionally known in the art is an operational example of a fully functional satellite navigation system which may be utilized with the present invention.

Satellite navigation systems as conventionally known in the art provide for tracking moving objects and which continuously refresh on a predetermined cycle. Typically such systems cycle many times a minute with a new positional determination made during each cycle. Such systems are examples of continuous determination navigation systems. A minor problem in utilizing satellite navigation systems for the present invention is that trains travel through tunnels which may interfere with full function of the system.

A RFID Radio Frequency Identification track tag navigation system is herein disclosed wherein a multiplicity of RFID tags are distributed along a rail track segment at precisely defined locations. A receiver is positioned on the rail based vehicle where the information stored by a respective tag may be determined during passage of the tag by the receiver during movement of the rail based vehicle. The information stored by each respective tag may directly identify the location of the respective tag such as longitude latitude and altitude or may provide a reference which permits the system to determine such information such as from within a database. The RFID track tag navigation system disclosed is an example of a sampling determination navigation system.

Placement of the RFID tags will depend upon the configuration of the RFID track tag navigation system selected and deployed. A spacing will exist between each adjacent pair of RFID tags deployed. This spacing may be uniform or may be variable depending upon track conditions and the deployment configuration selected. The RFID tags may be positioned corresponding to a center line of the tracks on either side of the center line of the tracks or a combination thereof. The spacing of deployed RFID tags from the center line of the tracks does not have to be uniform. Very directional specific receivers are possible which broadcast signals and receive return signals from RFID tags along a narrowly defined linear path or along a narrowly defined planar path. A particularly desirable placement location for the RFID tags is on the ties which are bars generally of wood concrete or steel which reside under the rails and support them. While a generally tie level placement is preferred the RFID tags may be positioned on objects where the RFID tags are elevated above tie level or may be positioned where the RFID tags are below tie level. While it is possible to deploy the RFID tags in a clearly visible fashion it is preferred to hide or otherwise conceal the RFID tags to prevent tampering. Additionally it is preferred to have a sequence reference of RFID tags known to the system to prevent unauthorized redeployment of the RFID tags along the rail track segment.

In an example of uniform spacing each RFID tag deployed may be positioned along the track corresponding to precisely six feet apart for measurement of a center line of the tracks. In curves along the track this would result in a greater actual spacing of tags positioned on the outside of the center line of the tracks and a lesser actual spacing of tags positioned on the inside of the center line of the tracks.

In an example of variable spacing of RFID tags the spacing may significantly decrease during alterations in path of the center line of the tracks. An example of this spacing may have more RFID tags positioned in close proximity to each other when translating from linearly straight section of track to a curved section and when translating from a curved section of track to a straight section. Similarly when a prolonged section of straight track is encountered the spacing between RFID tags may significantly increase.

Navigation system comprises a first position measurement system and a second position measurement system . First position measurement system utilizes a global positioning system GPS receiver . Second position measurement system utilizes a radio frequency identification RFID tag navigation system .

First position measurement system utilizes satellites and of global positioning system as conventionally known in the art. Global positioning system receiver utilizing signals transmitted by satellites and determines a first position measurement indicative of a location of global positioning system receiver . Global positioning system receiver will update a determination of respective locations based upon a frequency defined for navigation system . In practice global positioning system receiver will be positioned on rail base vehicle to move with rail based vehicle along path of rail track .

Second position measurement system utilizes a multiplicity of radio frequency identification RFID tags distributed at precisely defined locations and a radio frequency transmitting and receiving unit see . Radio frequency identification RFID tag navigation system utilizing signals from radio frequency identification RFID tags determines a second position measurement indicative of a location of radio frequency transmitting and receiving unit . Radio frequency transmitting and receiving unit will be positioned on rail based vehicle to move with rail based vehicle along path of rail track . depicts a series of radio frequency identification RFID tags and which contain data to define path of rail track .

Each radio frequency identification RFID tag will have a unique characteristic which may be determined by radio frequency transmitting and receiving unit . The unique characteristic in the form of data of a respective radio frequency identification RFID tag will permit production of a position measurement indication of a locational position associated with the respective radio frequency identification RFID tag .

The term position estimate refers to a final use determination of a position as arrived at by the mathematical track model utilizing at least the track database and one 1 position measurement. It is a requirement of the present invention that a relatively continuous determination be made of accurate position estimates for the rail based vehicle with which the system is operating. These positional locations will correspond to positions along the rail path defined in the track database. These position estimates will be constantly updated at intervals as required by the system. Various computational processes conventionally known in the art may be employed to arrive at each position estimate.

Various information available to the system will be utilized to arrive at a respective position estimate utilizing a mathematical track model. The structural configuration of the system will determine what information is available to the system for use with the mathematical track model. The mathematical track model will utilize the track database and a determination of an estimate of the position measurement of the rail based vehicle provided by the deployed navigation system or systems.

A continuous determination navigation system such as a global positioning system GPS provides rapid cycling to provide each position measurement. In this configuration without secondary position estimating or speed determination incorporation it is necessary for the mathematical track model to incorporate the position measurement relative to the data within the track database indicative of the location and the path of rail tracks upon which the rail based vehicle is traveling to arrive at the position estimates.

A sampling determination navigation system such as the RFID track tag navigation system will operate with other information such as speed of the rail based vehicle to provide each position measurement. In this configuration it is necessary for the mathematical track model to incorporate three 3 distinct data sources. The first is the initial position measurement from an encountered RFID tag. The second is a travel distance of the rail based vehicle based upon speed and time. The third is the data within the track database indicative of the location and the path of rail tracks upon which the rail based vehicle is traveling. The mathematical track model utilized these three 3 distinct data sources to arrive at the position estimates.

It is possible and desirable to provide the deployed navigation system to utilize a continuous determination method in combination with a sampling determination method to arrive at extremely precise position estimates.

A computer contains mathematical track model program which relatively continuously processes data from track database and data from the deployed position measurement system s and or . Mathematical track model program arrives at respective position estimates such as a position estimate shown in each indicative of a final use determination of rail based vehicle on rail track at a given moment of time.

Various methods of accurately determining a speed of a rail based vehicle are conventionally known in the art. Many of these methods may be utilized with the present invention when this feature is desired. A reliable method of determining the speed of the rail based vehicle involves use of a rail axial speed sensor which measures a rotational speed of an axle of the rail based vehicle. The determination of speed of the rail based vehicle may be used for several purposes by the system. One example of such a use involves accurately determining location subsequent to a separate determination by the position determining method of the navigation system. This is particularly desirable when a sampling determination navigation system such as the RFID track tag navigation system is deployed. This permits an accurate position measurement to be taken by the system from a respective RFID tag then factor in speed and time from the location of the RFID tag to arrive at relatively continuous position measurements.

Various methods conventionally known in the art may be utilized to incorporate the measured speed of the rail based vehicle. A Kalman filter is an efficient recursive filter which estimates the state of a dynamic system from a series of incomplete and noisy measurements. When a moving object is being tracked information about the location speed and acceleration of the moving object is measured with a great deal of corruption by noise at any time instant. The Kalman filter exploits the dynamics of the moving object which govern its time evolution to remove the effects of the noise and get a good estimate of the location. The estimate of the location of the moving object may be the present time at a future time or at a time in the past.

Mathematical track model program may utilize various additional provided data to arrive at the respective position estimates. Rail axial speed sensor provides for a determination of a speed of rail based vehicle along rail track such as speed measurement shown in . Mathematical track model program when provided with this additional speed data utilizes such data during production of the position estimates for increased accuracy.

Various computational processes are conventionally known in the art to produce a computer created image from data made available to the computational process. These methods can rapidly produce still images which can be displayed at a desired frame rate to produce a continuous moving image. Such technology is commonly used in video games where the produced moving image changes depending upon input from a player or players. It is possible to utilize many of these processes for the production means of the present invention.

Binary space partitioning BSP may be utilized with the present invention. It is a method for recursively subdividing a space into convex sets by hyperplanes. This subdivision gives rise to a representation of the scene by means of a tree data structure known as a BSP tree.

Originally this approach was proposed in three dimensional computer graphics to increase the rendering efficiency. Among other applications are performing geometrical operations with shapes in computer assisted design CAD software collision detection in robotics three dimensional computer games and other computer applications that involve handling of complex spatial scenes.

In computer graphics it is desirable that the drawing of a scene be both correct and quick. A simple way to draw a scene correctly is the painter s algorithm. This means draw it from back to front painting the background over with each closer object. However that approach is quite limited since time is wasted drawing objects that will be overdrawn later and not all objects will necessarily be drawn correctly.

Z buffering is the management of image depth coordinates in three dimensional graphics done in hardware or in software. It is one solution to the visibility problem which is the problem of deciding which elements of a rendered scene are visible and which are hidden. Z buffering is also known as depth buffering.

Z buffering can ensure that scenes are drawn correctly and eliminate the ordering step of the painter s algorithm but it is expensive in terms of memory use. BSP trees will split up objects so that the painter s algorithm will draw them correctly without need of a Z buffer and eliminate the need to sort the objects as a simple tree traversal will yield them in the correct order. It also serves as base for other algorithms such as visibility lists which seek to reduce overdraw.

The downside of binary space partitioning is the requirement for a time consuming pre processing of the scene which makes it difficult and inefficient to directly implement moving objects into a BSP tree. This is often overcome by using the BSP tree together with a Z buffer and using the Z buffer to correctly merge movable objects onto the background scene.

OpenGL Open Graphics Library is a standard specification which is preferred for use with the present invention. OpenGL defines a cross language cross platform application programming interface API for writing applications that produce three dimensional computer graphics and two dimensional computer graphics. The interface consists of over 250 different function calls which can be used to draw complex three dimensional scenes from simple primitives. OpenGL was developed by Silicon Graphics and is popular in the video games industry. OpenGL is widely used in CAD virtual reality scientific visualization information visualization flight simulation and video game development.

Computer contains graphical display program which produces a series of computer created images from various data including that produced by mathematical track model program . Computer created images provide the operator of rail based vehicle with a produced realistic graphical view indicative of rail track and at least select surroundings to be encountered during movement of rail based vehicle . This provides for the operator of rail based vehicle to view in any operating condition a synthetic image indicative of the environment to be encountered by rail based vehicle during subsequent movement of rail based vehicle .

Graphical display program produces for display to the operator of rail based vehicle information about upcoming rail track and highway crossings . Such information preferably will include a visual depiction of a typical crossing having similar characteristics to the crossing to be encountered.

Graphical view depicts a perspective view of a produced realistic graphical view. Graphical view also depicts various overlay views providing various information for the operator of rail based vehicle . These overlays include a top view of a produced realistic graphical view showing rail track a highway and an intersection a text panel providing various text information regarding operation of rail based vehicle a speedometer a compass and status warnings and to provide warning to the operator of dangerous operating conditions.

Many methods of displaying an image are conventionally known in the art and many of these may be used with the present invention. Two of these methods involve projection onto a surface and display on a monitor. In the most preferred embodiment of the present invention a flat screen monitor or monitors are provided for the operator of the rail based vehicle to view information provided by the system.

Operator display is a visual device capable of presenting visual information to the operator of rail based vehicle . Operator display is one form of presentation means to provide the operator with information about conditions to be encountered by rail based vehicle including information about upcoming rail track and highway crossings prior to rail based vehicle arriving at the respective rail track and highway crossing . Rail synthetic vision system continuously updates operator display to ensure that accurate information is being depicted and presented to the operator of rail based vehicle .

Production and display means refers to the combination of producing a real time realistic graphical view indicative of the rail track and at least select surroundings to be encountered during movement of the rail based vehicle and presenting that view to the operator of the rail based vehicle.

Referring now specifically to an overview of a preferred embodiment of the present invention is provided. First position measurement system in the form of global positioning system GPS receiver produces first position measurement . First position measurement is passed to navigation system of rail synthetic vision system . Second position measurement system in the form of radio frequency identification RFID tag navigation system produces second position measurement . Second position measurement is passed to navigation system of rail synthetic vision system . Rail axial speed sensor produces a speed measurement . Speed measurement is passed to navigation system of rail synthetic vision system . Track database contains at least track survey data . Mathematical track model program accepts various measurements and from navigation system and information from track database . Mathematical track model program outputs a position estimate . Graphical display program utilizes position estimate to determine what information from track database to utilized to render computer created image . Computer created image is then sent to operator display . Depending upon the cycle rate desired at least some of these operations are repetitively performed to provide operator display with a real time produced image indicative of current conditions in the path of the rail based vehicle and the conditions to be encounter during continued travel of the rail based vehicle.

Horn activation means provides for an activation of a pre determined audible horn sound from a horn at a pre determined orientation of at least a select portion of rail based vehicle and intersection of rail track with highway at rail track and highway crossing . Horn of the rail crossing horn sounding is carried on rail based vehicle . Horns of the rail crossing horn sounding is positioned in a fixed locations and relative to rail track and highway crossing .

Computer of rail synthetic vision system has location finding means to provide for determining if rail based vehicle has arrived at a pre determined orientation of at least a select portion of rail based vehicle and intersection of rail track with highway at rail track and highway crossing . Based upon this location finding means manual horn sounding testing means provide for determining if the operator has manually activated an audible horn sound of horn . If the manual horn sounding testing means determines that the operator has not properly activated the audible horn sound of horn operator notification means provides for notifying the operator that the manual activation of the audible horn sound of horn has not occurred subsequent to the location finding means determining that rail based vehicle has arrived at the pre determined orientation relative to the respective rail track and highway crossing . A buzzer see is depicted as providing the notification to the operator of rail based vehicle . Horn activation means provides for rail synthetic vision system to activate a pre determined audible horn sound at a pre determined orientation of at least a select portion of rail based vehicle and intersection of rail track with highway at a respective rail track and highway crossing .

With respect to the above description then it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention to include variations in size material shape form function and manner of operation assembly and use are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.

Therefore the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope of the invention.

