---

title: Anti-glare film
abstract: The present invention provides a Fresnel lens sheet capable of successfully avoiding the “collapse”, “abrasion” and “moiré” problems. A Fresnel lens sheet constitutes, together with a lenticular lens sheet, a rear projection screen, which is mounted in the frame of a rear projection type display. The Fresnel lens sheet includes, on one surface of its substrate, a Fresnel lens part containing a plurality of lenses concentrically formed on one plane. The apexes of the lenses situated in the area between the center and the outer edge of the Fresnel lens part are flattened to give flat faces, and the widths of the flat faces of the lenses on the outer edge side are made greater than the widths of the flat faces of the lenses on the center side. The widths of the flat faces of the lenses are from 0 to 30 μm.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07149032&OS=07149032&RS=07149032
owner: Tomoegawa Paper Co., Ltd.
number: 07149032
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060327
---
The present invention relates to an anti glare film which is formed on the surface of a display such as an LCD PDP etc. and in particular relates to an anti glare film which can be provided by coating at low cost.

In recent years displays such as LCDs PDPs etc. have made progress and products of various sizes which are used for a variety of purposes such as portable telephones large screen TVs etc. have been produced and sold. In general a layer having an anti reflection function is provided on the surface of these displays in order to further improve visibility. The anti reflection technology includes an anti glare film to prevent ambient light from being reflected and an anti reflection coating for reducing the reflectivity thereof by using interference effects of light.

In conventional anti glare techniques as a method for roughening the surface of an anti glare film a method in which the surface of a substrate is directly roughened by a sandblasting method an embossment method etc. a method in which a hard coat layer containing fillers is formed on the surface of a substrate and a method in which a porous film is formed on the surface of a substrate by using a sea island structure etc. can be mainly used. Additionally in a conventional anti reflection technique a method in which an anti reflection film is formed by sputtering etc. can be mainly used. However a vacuum film forming method such as the latter sputtering etc. is expensive and has insufficient adhesion with a plastic film and it is difficult to form a film in which large areas are uniform and therefore recently a method in which multiple layers having different refractive indexes respectively are laminated by a wet coating is used. Reflectivity of an antireflection film produced by the sputtering is usually 0.3 or less however reflectivity of a film produced by the wet coating is higher than that by the wet coating and most may be about 1.0 and this is called a low reflection to distinguish it from the anti reflection.

A low reflection film produced by the wet coating has a standard structure in which a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer are laminated in this order on a substrate and some optional layers may be added between the substrate and the high refractive index layer between the high refractive index layer and the low refractive index layer or on the low refractive index layer as necessary. Here the high refractive index and the low refractive index do not express absolute refractive indexes and express higher or lower in refractive index in the case in which refractive indexes of two layers are relatively compared and the reflectivity is lowest when both refractive indexes have the relationship in the following equation 1. equation 1 

 nis the refractive index of a high refractive index layer and nis the refractive index of a low refractive index layer. 

In general in material for a high refractive index layer of the low reflection film produced by the wet coating the refractive index is increased by using an organic polymer which contains the elements chlorine bromine sulfur etc. or by dispersing ultrafine particles of metal oxide having high refractive index such as those of titania zirconium oxide zinc oxide etc. in the layer. In addition in the low refractive index layer the refractive index is reduced by using fluorine containing organic polymers or silica magnesium fluoride etc. having low refractive index or by forming holes using fine particles so as to mix.

In recent years displays used in large screen TVs are in great demand and as a result low reflection films produced by the wet coating are also in great demand. As a low reflection film a two layer type structure in which a hard coat layer combining a function as a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer are provided on a transparent film made of polyethylene terephthalate PET triacetylcellulose TAC etc. and a three layer type structure in which a hard coat layer a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer are provided on the transparent film are produced and have been sold. In the low reflection film high abrasion resistance chemical resistance and contamination resistance are required in addition to low reflectivity and recently antistatic property is also required on the surface thereof. The antistatic property is required by a demand of the market to prevent dust from adhering due to electrostatic charge and moreover improves wiping property of adhered dust and surface electric resistance is required to be 10to 10 sq. The sq is a unit of surface resistance.

In order to give the antistatic property on the surface of an anti glare film it is necessary to give the antistatic property in any one layer or some layers of a hard coat layer a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer as well as the case of the above low reflection film. As a material for giving the antistatic property surfactants electroconductive polymers electroconductive inorganic fine particles etc. are used and in particular a method in which electroconductive inorganic fine particles are dispersed into a coating film is mainly utilized since it is effective for reducing electrical resistance.

It is preferable that the electroconductive inorganic fine particles be disposed nearest the surface from the viewpoint of the antistatic property however since these materials generally have a high refractive index it is preferable that the materials be contained in a layer which is provided under the low refractive index layer and conductivity and high refractive index be given considering the anti reflection.

As an example of the above anti reflection Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2003 294904 discloses anti reflection structures having a two layer type structure electroconductive layer low refractive index layer or a three layer type structure electroconductive layer high refractive index layer low refractive index layer and it is described that transparent conductive ultrafine particles of metal oxide are dispersed in the electroconductive layer and that the particles include needle shaped or globular fine particles of antimony doped tin oxide and aluminum doped zinc oxide. In addition Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2002 167576 discloses an electroconductive material composition having high refractive index which includes electroconductive fine particles A component dielectric fine particles B component having a refractive index of 2.0 or more and binder C component and in which the contents of the B component and C component are 5 to 100 weight parts to 100 weight parts of the A component respectively. It is described that the electroconductive fine particle is chosen from indium tin oxide tin oxide antimony tin oxide and zinc aluminum oxide. Furthermore Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2001 302945 discloses a UV curable transparent conductive coating material composition that includes tetragonal tin oxide fine particles produced by a plasma method acrylate compound and alcohols.

Other patent applications disclose antistatic and high refractive index of anti glare films however an anti glare film in which low reflectivity antistatic properties abrasion resistance chemical resistance contamination resistance etc. are balanced has still not been realized.

In addition as a method for giving simultaneously these functions such as low reflectivity antistatic abrasion resistance chemical resistance and contamination resistance films in which layers are laminated have been developed however formation of multiple layers requires a process for coating on a substrate any number of times and production cost is increased. Furthermore it is difficult to adjust the balance between each layer by the formation of multiple layers and in practice some of these functions is merely chosen depending on the intended use.

The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances and it is an object thereof to provide an anti glare film which is superior in low reflectivity and economy and which balances conductivity abrasion resistance and contamination resistance by providing a hard coat layer and another layer or a hard coat layer a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer on a transparent substrate.

A first embodiment of an anti glare film according to the present invention includes a transparent substrate and at least a hard coat layer a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer provided on the transparent substrate in which the high refractive index layer contains radiation curable resin composition containing electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles and has a refractive index after curing of 1.6 to 1.8 the low refractive index layer contains fluorine containing polysiloxane and has a refractive index after curing of 1.36 to 1.42 and the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle is at least one selected from tin oxide indium tin oxide ITO and zinc oxide and is contained at 75 or more by weight ratio in the high refractive index layer.

A second embodiment of an anti glare film according to the present invention includes a transparent substrate and at least a hard coat layer and a low refractive index layer provided on the transparent substrate wherein the hard coat layer contains a radiation curable resin composition containing electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles has a thickness of 1.0 to 5.0 m and has a refractive index after curing of 1.6 to 1.8 the low refractive index layer contains fluorine containing polysiloxane and has a refractive index after curing of 1.36 to 1.42 and the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle is at least one selected from tin oxide indium tin oxide ITO and zinc oxide and is contained at 75 or more by weight ratio in the hard coat layer.

Here a hard coat layer in the present invention means a layer having a hardness of H or more according to a pencil hardness test Japanese Industrial Standard K5400 . In additional the high refractive index and the low refractive index express higher or lower in refractive index in the case in which refractive indexes of adjacent layers are relatively compared.

Furthermore in the anti glare film of the present invention surface resistance measured on the surface of the low refractive index layer is preferably less than 10 sq.

Additionally in the anti glare film of the present invention average reflectivity is preferably 1 or less and total light transmittance is preferably 90 or more and the HAZE value is preferably 2 or less.

Furthermore in the anti glare film of the present invention the change in the amount of the HAZE value during abrasion resistance testing using steel wool is preferably 0.5 or less.

In addition in the anti glare film of the present invention it is preferable that the hard coat layer contain transparent resin fine particles and have a rough surface on the surface thereof.

Furthermore in the first embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention the hard coat layer preferably has a refractive index after curing of 1.45 to 1.55.

In the following each component in the anti glare film of the present invention will be explained in the first embodiment and the second embodiment respectively.

The first embodiment of the anti glare film according to the present invention includes a transparent substrate and at least a hard coat layer a high refractive index layer and a low refractive index layer provided on the transparent substrate in which the high refractive index layer contains a radiation curable resin composition containing electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles and has a refractive index after curing of 1.6 to 1.8 the low refractive index layer contains fluorine containing polysiloxane and has a refractive index after curing of 1.36 to 1.42 and the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle is at least one selected from tin oxide indium tin oxide ITO and zinc oxide and is contained at 75 or more by weight ratio in the high refractive index layer.

According to such a composition the first embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention has an effect that low reflectivity conductivity abrasion resistance and contamination resistance are balanced.

As a transparent substrate used in the anti glare film of the present invention glass such as fused silica soda glass etc. can be used and moreover various resin films such as PET TAC polyethylene naphthalate PEN polymethyl methacrylate PMMA polycarbonate PC polyimide PI polyethylene PE polypropylene PP polyvinyl alcohol PVA polyvinyl chloride PVC cycloolefin copolymer COC norbornene containing resin polyether sulfone cellophane aromatic polyamide etc. can be preferably used. In the case in which the anti glare film is used for a plasma display and a liquid crystal display PET or TAC film can be preferably used.

The higher the transparency of the transparent substrate the better the transparent substrate. The light transmittance Japanese Industrial Standard K7361 1 is preferably 80 or more and is more preferably 90 or more. The transparent substrate is preferably thin from the viewpoint of illumination and furthermore it is preferably 1 to 700 m and is more preferably 25 to 250 m in consideration of productivity and handling.

In addition the adhesion between the transparent substrate and the hard coat layer can be improved by surface treatment of the transparent substrate such as an alkaline treatment corona treatment plasma treatment sputtering treatment etc. a coating of a surface active agent a silane coupling agent etc. or a surface modification treatment such as a Si deposition etc. on the transparent substrate.

As resin for forming the hard coat layer in the first embodiment of the anti glare layer of the present invention a resin cured by means of radiation or heat or a combination thereof can be used. As a radiation curable resin compounds appropriately mixed with monomers oligomers or prepolymers having polymeric unsaturated bonds such as for an acryloyl group methacryloyl group acryloyloxy group methacryloyloxy group etc. can be employed. As a monomer styrene methyl acrylate methyl methacrylate methoxy polyethylene methacrylate cyclohexyl methacrylate phenoxy ethyl methacrylate ethylene glycol dimethacrylate dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate etc. can be mentioned. As an oligomer or prepolymer an acrylate such as polyester acrylate polyurethane acrylate epoxy acrylate polyether acrylate alkyd acrylate melamine acrylate silicone acrylate etc. an unsaturated polyester an epoxy type compound etc. can be mentioned. These can be employed alone or in combination. In the case in which flexibility of the curing film is required the amount of monomer employed is reduced. Furthermore in order to reduce cross linking density it is preferable that an acrylic monomer having a mono functional or bi functional acrylate be employed. Whereas in the case in which superior durability such as thermal resistance abrasion resistance solvent resistance etc. is required in the curing film it is preferable that the amount of the monomer be increased or that an acrylic monomer having a tri functional or greater acrylate be employed.

In order to cure the radiation curable resin as described above for example it is necessary that radiation such as UV electron beams X rays etc. be irradiated on the resin and a polymerization initiator can be appropriately added to the resin as necessary. As a polymerization initiator any compounds in which activated radicals or cations are generated by heating or irradiation of an energy ray such as visible light ultraviolet light etc. can be used without specific limitation. As a polymerization initiator in which activated radicals are generated by heating azo compounds such as 2 2 azobis 2 4 dimethyl valeronitrile etc. and organic peroxides such as benzoyl peroxide lauroyl peroxide etc. can be mentioned. As a polymerization initiator in which activated radicals are generated by irradiation of energy rays an acetophenone such as diethoxy acetophenone 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one benzyl dimethyl ketal 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenylketone 2 methyl 2 monophorino 4 thiomethylphenyl propan 1 one or the like a benzoin ether such as benzoin methylether benzoin ethylether benzoin isopropylether benzoin isobutylether or the like a benzophenone such as benzophenone o benzoyl methyl benzoate 4 phenyl benzophenone 4 benzoyl 4 methyl diphenylsulfide 4 benzoyl N N dimethyl N 2 1 oxo 2 propenyloxy ethyl benzene methanaminium bromide 4 benzoylbenzyl trimethyl ammonium chloride or the like a thioxanthone such as 2 4 diethyl thioxanthone 1 chloro 4 dichloro thioxanthone or the like 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenylbenzoyl oxide or the like can be mentioned. Additionally as a polymerization initiator in which a cation is generated triphenylsulfonium hexafluorophosphate antimonate tris 4 methoxyphenyl sulfonium hexafluorophosphate etc. can be used.

These can be employed alone or in combination. In addition as an accelerator sensitizer an amine type compound such as N N dimethyl paratoluidine 4 4 diethylamino benzophenone or the like can be employed in combination. The content of the polymerization initiator is preferably in an amount of 0.1 to 10.0 by weight and is more preferably in an amount of 3 to 7 by weight to the radiation curable resin. In the case in which the content of the polymerization initiator is excessive unreacted polymerization initiator is decomposed and decomposed fragments cause a reduction in strength of the layer and coloring of the resin. In contrast in the case in which the content is too low it is difficult to cure the resin. In the polymerization initiator in which activated radicals are generated by irradiation of energy rays such as visible light ultraviolet light etc. it is necessary to increase the content of the polymerization initiator when filler having an absorption in the irradiation wavelength region of the energy ray is used.

The volumetric shrinkage ratio associated with the curing of the hard coat layer employing the above radiation curable resin calculated by the following method is preferably 20 or less. With a volumetric shrinkage ratio of 20 or more in the case of a film shaped transparent substrate the film will curl severely and in the case of a rigid substrate such as a glass or the like the adhesion between the substrate and the hard coat layer will be reduced. Volumetric shrinkage ratio 100 equation 2 

 Specific gravity is measured by the B method picnometer method of Japanese Industrial Standard K 7112. 

In the hard coat layer in the first embodiment a stabilizer a thermal polymerization inhibitor for the radiation curable resin such as hydroquinone p benzoquinone t butylhydroquinone etc. may be added. It is preferred that the stabilizer be employed in a range of 0.1 to 5.0 by weight relative to that of the radiation curable resin.

As a thermosetting resin which can be used in the hard coat layer phenol resin furan resin xylene formaldehyde resin ketone formaldehyde resin urea resin melamine resin aniline resin alkyd resin unsaturated polyester resin epoxy resin etc. can be employed. These may be employed alone or in combination. In the case in which a transparent substrate consists of plastics the heat curing temperature cannot be set at a high temperature. In particular in the case in which PET or TAC is employed a thermosetting resin which can be cured at 100 C. or less is desirably employed.

It is preferable that the curable resin which is employed in the hard coat layer have a higher transparency. The light permeability Japanese Industrial Standard K 7361 1 is preferably 80 or more and more preferably 90 or more similarly to the case of the transparent substrate. The refractive index of the hard coat layer is preferably in a range of 1.45 to 1.55. When it deviates from the above range suitable anti reflection property cannot be obtained.

In the present invention as a method for forming a hard coat layer directly or via another layer on one surface or both surfaces of the transparent substrate there can be mentioned a method consisting of the steps of mixing fillers water or organic solvent in the resin for forming a hard coat layer described above as necessary dispersing the mixture using a paint shaker sand mill pearl mill ball mill attritor roll mill high speed impeller disperser jet mill high speed impact mill ultrasonic disperser or the like to form a coating material or an ink providing one layer or the same layers on one surface or both surfaces of the transparent substrate by means of a printing method such as a letterpress printing method such as a flexographic printing method or the like an intaglio printing method such as a direct gravure printing method offset gravure printing method or the like a planographic printing method such as an offset printing method or the like a stencil printing method such as a screen process printing method or the like or a coating method such as an air doctor coating method blade coating method knife coating method reverse coating method transfer roll coating method gravure roll coating method kiss coating method cast coating method spray coating method slot orifice coating method calender coating method electrodeposition coating method dip coating method die coating method or the like thermal drying the coating or printing layers in the case where a solvent is included and curing the coating or printing layers by means of radiation in the case of UV radiation a photo polymerization initiator is necessary . In the case in which the radiation is an electron beam an electron beam having an energy of 50 KeV to 1000 KeV emitted from various electron beam accelerators such as a Cockroft Walton apparatus Van de Graff apparatus resonance transformer apparatus insulating core transformer apparatus linear type apparatus dynamitron type apparatus high frequency type apparatus or the like may be employed. In the case where the radiation is UV radiation the UV radiation emitted from the light of an extra high pressure mercury vapor lamp high pressure mercury vapor lamp low pressure mercury vapor lamp carbon arc lamp xenon arc lamp metal halide lamp or the like can be employed.

In order to improve the coating aptitude or printing aptitude of a coating material or an ink a levelling agent such as silicone oil or the like fats and oils such as polyethylene wax carnauba wax higher alcohols bisamide higher fatty acids or the like a curing agent such as isocyanate or the like an additive such as ultra microparticles having a particle size of 0.1 m or less such as those of calcium carbonate silica sol synthetic mica or the like can be employed as necessary.

The thickness of the hard coat layer is preferably in a range of 1.0 to 10.0 m and more preferably in a range of 1 to 5 m. In the case in which the thickness of the hard coat layer is less than 1.0 m abrasion resistance of the hard coat layer is degraded or in the case of a UV curable resin being employed in the hard coat layer the resin fails to cure due to oxidation inhibition. In contrast in the case in which the thickness of the hard coat layer is more than 10 m curling occurs due to curing shrinkage of the resin microcracking occurs in the hard coat layer or the adhesion between the transparent substrate and the hard coat layer is decreased.

In the present invention a fine rough surface is formed on the surface of the hard coat layer by dispersing and containing transparent resin fine particles in the hard coat layer and anti glare properties are thereby produced. As a transparent resin fine particle used here organic transparent particles made of acrylic resin polystyrene resin styrene acrylic copolymer polyethylene resin epoxy resin silicone resin polyvinylidene fluoride polyethylene fluoride resin etc. can be used. The refractive index of the transparent resin fine particle is preferably 1.40 to 1.75 and in the case in which the refractive index is less than 1.40 or more than 1.75 difference of refractive indexes between the transparent resin fine particle and the hard coat layer or the transparent base substance is too large and light permeability is reduced. The particle diameter of the transparent particle is preferably 0.3 to 10 m and is more preferably 1 to 5 m. In the case in which the particle diameter is less than 0.3 m anti glare properties are reduced and in contrast in the case in which it is more than 10 m glare is generated and the surface of the layer appears to be fogged by increasing roughness of the surface.

In order to further improve the anti reflection effect a high refractive index layer can be provided between the hard coat layer and the low refractive index layer. Here the refractive index of the high refractive index layer is higher than those of the hard coat layer and the low refractive index layer.

The high refractive index layer in the first embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention must have a higher refractive index than the low refractive index layer formed over the layer and the refractive index is preferably 1.60 to 1.80. In the case in which the refractive index is less than 1.60 it is difficult to obtain sufficient low reflection effect and in contrast in the case in which it is more than 1.80 it is difficult to form a film.

The thickness of the high refractive index layer is preferably equal to or less than the wavelength of visible light. For example in the case in which antireflection effect is given in visible light the thickness of the high refractive index layer is designed so that nd is satisfied 500 4nd nm 750. Here n is refractive index of the high refractive index layer and d is thickness of the layer. In the present invention since the high refractive index layer is thin as described above sufficient hard coat property cannot be obtained. Therefore it is necessary to provide the hard coat layer between the high refractive index layer and the transparent base substance.

As an electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle contained in the high refractive index layer tin oxide phosphorus doped tin oxide antimony doped tin oxide ATO indium tin oxide ITO indium oxide zinc oxide aluminum doped zinc oxide and antimony pentoxide can be used and among them tin oxide ITO and zinc oxide are preferable. These compounds not only give conductivity but also increase refractive index of the high refractive index layer which contains these compounds since these compounds have high refractive indexes of about 2.0.

Particle diameter of these electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles is preferably 1 to 300 nm is more preferably 5 to 100 nm and is most preferably 5 to 50 nm. In the case in which the particle diameter is less than 1 nm it is difficult to uniformly disperse and in contrast in the case in which it is more than 300 nm transparency is reduced.

As a radiation curable resin component used in the high refractive index layer compounds appropriately mixed with monomers oligomers or prepolymers having radical polymeric functional groups such as an acryloyl group methacryloyl group acryloyloxy group methacryloyloxy group etc. or having cationic polymeric functional groups such as epoxy group vinyl ether group oxetane group etc. can be employed. As a monomer methyl acrylate methyl methacrylate methoxy polyethylene methacrylate cyclohexyl methacrylate phenoxyethyl methacrylate ethylene glycol dimethacrylate dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate trimethylolpropane triacrylate etc. can be used. As an oligomer or prepolymer acrylate compounds such as polyester acrylate polyurethane acrylate epoxy acrylate polyether acrylate alkyd acrylate melamine acrylate silicone acrylate etc. unsaturated polyester tetramethylene glycol diglycidyl ether propylene glycol diglycidyl ether neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether bisphenol A diglycidyl ether epoxy type compounds such as various alicyclic epoxies etc. oxetane compounds such as 3 ethyl 3 hydroxymethyl oxetane 1 4 bis 3 ethyl 3 oxetanyl methoxy methylbenzene di 1 ethyl 3 oxetanyl methyl ether etc. can be used. These can be employed alone or in combination.

The above radiation curable resin components can be cured by simply irradiation of electron beam however a photopolymerization initiator must be added in the case of curing by irradiation by ultraviolet light. As a photopolymerization initiator a radical polymerization initiator such as acetophenones benzophenones thioxanthones benzoin benzoin methyl ether etc. cationic polymerization initiator such as aromatic diazonium salts aromatic sulfonium salts aromatic iodonium salts metallocene compounds etc. can be used alone or in combination.

In the present invention polymeric resins can be added to the above radiation curable resin component unless polymerized curing is not prevented. The polymeric resins are thermoplastic resins which are soluble in organic solvent used in a hard coat layer coating material as described below and specifically acrylic resin alkyd resin polyester resin etc. can be used and it is preferable to have an acidic functional group such as a carboxyl group phosphate group sulfonate group etc. so as to increase affinity with the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles.

In addition in the present invention the surface of the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle can be modified by various coupling agents as necessary so as to stably disperse the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle into the above radiation curable resin component. As a coupling agent silane coupling agent metalalkoxide such as aluminum titanium zirconium etc. organic acid such as fatty acid etc. and salt thereof and phosphates or the like can be used.

The content of the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle in the high refractive index layer is preferably 75 by weight or more is more preferably 75 to 95 by weight and is most preferably 80 to 90 by weight. In the case in which the content is less than 75 by weight it is difficult to obtain superior conductivity and in contrast in the case in which it is more than 95 by weight the HAZE value is increased and abrasion resistance of the high refractive index layer is reduced.

The high refractive index layer is constituted by curing mainly the above electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles and the radiation curable resin component and a method for forming the layer includes coating coating material including electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles radiation curable resin component and organic solvent and curing the material by irradiation with an electron beam or ultraviolet light after evaporating the organic solvent. The organic solvent used here must dissolve suitably the radiation curable resin component and disperse suitably the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles. Specifically it is possible to use alcohols esters ketones ethers and aromatic hydrocarbons can be used alone or in combination considering coating properties such as wettability on a substrate viscosity and drying rate.

Surface resistance of a laminate from the substrate to the high refractive index layer in the first embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention is preferably 10to 10 sq. In order to have superior antistatic properties surface resistance must be 10 sq or more and in contrast in the case in which the surface resistance is more than 10 sq surface resistance on the surfacemost of an anti glare film in which a low refractive index layer is provided on the laminate is 10 sq or more and therefore sufficient antistatic properties cannot be exhibited. In addition surface hardness of the high refractive index layer is preferably hardness H or more measured by a pencil hardness test Japanese Industrial Standard K5600 5 4 and is more preferably hardness 2H or more.

A low refractive index layer provided on the high refractive index layer in the first embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention is composed of fluorine containing polysiloxane. The fluorine containing polysiloxane is mixture of at least a hydrolyzable silicon compound and or hydrolyzate thereof with a curing accelerator. As a hydrolyzable silicon compound a mixture of at least one of the silicon compounds shown in the following chemical formulas 1 to 3 with at least one of the fluorine containing polysiloxanes shown in the chemical formulas 4 and 5 can be used.

Chemical Formulas R SiX0 2 chemical formula 1 XSi R SiX chemical formula 2 Y Si OR O Y chemical formula 3 R SiX1 2 chemical formula 4 XSi R SiX chemical formula 5 

 X is any of Cl Br NCO OR. Y is H or an organic group having a carbon number of 1 to 20. R R Ror Ris an organic group having a carbon number of 1 to 20. Ror Ris an organic group including at least one fluorine atom. n is integer of 1 to 30. 

As a specific example of a hydrolyzable silicon compound silicon compounds in which a silicon atom has four hydrolyzable groups can be used. Specifically tetramethoxy silane tetraethoxy silane tetra 1 propoxy silane tetra 2 propoxy silane tetra 1 butoxy silane tetrachloro silane tetrabromo silane tetraisocyanate silane dimethoxy siloxane oligomer diethoxy siloxane oligomer etc. can be used however the present invention is not limited to these compounds. In addition as a fluorine containing silicon compound 3 3 3 trifluoroprolyl trimethoxy silane 3 3 3 trifluoroprolyl triethoxy silane 3 3 3 trifluoroprolyl tripropoxy silane 3 3 3 trifluoroprolyl trichloro silane 3 3 3 trifluoroprolyl triisocyanate 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorohexyl trimethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorohexyl triethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorohexyl tripropoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorohexyl trichlorosilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorohexyl triisocyanatesilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorononyl trimethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorononyl triethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorononyl tripropoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorononyl trichlorosilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorononyl triisocyanatesilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl trimethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl triethoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl tripropoxysilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl trichlorosilane 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl triisocyanatesilane 1 heptafluoro isopropoxy propyl trimethoxysilane 1 heptafluoroisopropoxypropyl triethoxysilane 1 heptafluoroisopropoxypropyl tripropoxysilane 1 heptafluoroisopropoxypropyl trichlorosilane 1 heptafluoroisopropoxypropyl triisocyanatesilane 1 4 bis trimethoxysilyl 2 2 3 3 tetrafluorobutane 1 5 bis trimethoxysilyl 2 2 3 3 4 4 hexafluoropentane etc. can be used. Of these 1H 1H 2H 2H tetrahydro perfluorodecyl triethoxysilane is preferable from the viewpoint of refractive index reactivity and solvent solubility.

In addition as a hydrolyzable silicon compound in the present invention cation modified silicon compounds which function as a film coating agent and a antistatic agent can be added in addition to the above compounds. Specifically as a cation modified silicon compound octadecyl dimethyl 3 trimethoxysilyl propyl ammonium chloride N 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl N methyl N N diallyl ammonium chloride N N didecyl N methyl N 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl ammonium chloride octadecyl dimethyl 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl ammonium chloride tetradecyl dimethyl 3 trimethoxysilylpropyl ammonium chloride N trimethoxysilylpropyl N N N tri n butyl ammonium chloride N trimethoxysilylpropyl N N N trimethyl ammonium chloride trimethoxysilylpropyl polyethyleneimine dimethoxymethylsilylpropyl modified polyethyleneimine etc. can be mentioned.

In order to balance refractive index and coating film strength of the low refractive index layer of the above hydrolyzable silicon compounds silicon compounds in which silicon atom has four hydrolyzable groups compounds in which is 0 in the chemical formula 1 and fluorine containing hydrolyzable silicon compounds can be preferably used in combination appropriately. In this case although the mixing ratio is different depending on type of silicon compound the fluorine containing hydrolyzable silicon compound is contained at preferably 1 to 500 weight parts and more preferably 20 to 300 weight parts to 100 weight parts of the silicon compound in which a silicon atom has four hydrolyzable groups.

Usually the above hydrolyzable silicon compound is partially hydrolyzed and polycondensed by dissolving in alcohol solvent and after coating it is further polycondensed by heating so as to form a cured film. In order to promote these hydrolyses and polycondensation reactions curing accelerators can be added at 1 to 30 weight parts to 100 weight parts of the hydrolyzable silicon compound analogue and or hydrolyzate thereof. As a curing accelerator mineral acids such as nitric acid hydrochloric acid etc. organic acids such as oxalic acid acetic acid etc. acidic catalysts such as orthophosphoric acid benzenesulfonic acid p toluene sulfonic acid etc. and basic catalysts such as ammonia etc. can be used.

These curing accelerators can be directly coated after mixing with the silicon compound so as to form a film. Additionally the silicon compound is previously hydrolyzed by adding water and then after mixing with the hydrolyzed silicon compound the curing accelerators may be coated so as to form a film. In this case a mixture of silicon compound water and solvent or a mixture into which is added a small amount of a strong acid hydrochloric acid etc. thereto is prepared and after being allowed to stand at room temperature for several hours or a few days it is diluted to a concentration for coating and is added with the curing accelerator and it is coated so as to form a film. In addition after the silicon compound is polymerized to be an oligomer in the absence of water using a silane polymerization catalyst such as oxalic acid etc. the oligomer may be added with the curing accelerator and be coated applied so as to form a film. In this case a mixture of silicon compound solvent and carboxylic acid catalyst is heated from room temperature to 100 C. and in the same manner as that in other cases it is diluted to a concentration for coating and is added with the curing accelerator and it is coated so as to form a film.

The low refractive index layer is produced by the following processes coating material preparation coating drying polymerization and curing. Coating material for forming the low refractive index layer can be prepared by dissolving the above silicon compound in an optional solvent hydrolyzing and polymerizing to be oligomer as necessary and mixing the above curing accelerator. In this case in order to obtain a desired thickness of coating film the content of the silicon compound is usually prepared at 0.1 to 50 weight and preferably 0.5 to 30 weight . As a solvent it is necessary to contain polar solvent which can dissolve at least the hydrolyzed silicon compound. Additionally it is preferable that the boiling point of the solvent be 50 to 150 C. from the viewpoint of evaporation during drying. As such solvents alcohols such as methanol ethanol 1 propanol 2 propanol butanol etc. glycols such as ethylene glycol propylene glycol hexylene glycol etc. glycol ethers such as ethylcellosolve butylcellosolve ethyl carbitol butyl carbitol diethyl cellosolve diethyl carbitol etc. ketones such as acetone methyl ethyl ketone methyl isobutyl ketone etc. esters such as methyl acetate ethyl acetate propyl acetate butyl acetate etc. aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene etc. nitrogen containing compounds such as N methylpyrrolidone dimethyl formamide etc. and halogenated hydrocarbons such of chloroform dichloromethane trichloroethylene etc. can be used and the present invention is not limited to these. In addition the solvent can be used alone or in combination.

The low refractive index layer can be provided on one surface or both surfaces of the transparent substrate by coating or printing methods using the coating material prepared as above. Specifically coating methods such as an air doctor coating method blade coating method wire doctor coating method knife coating method reverse coating method transfer roll coating method gravure roll coating method microgravure coating method kiss coating method cast coating method spray coating method slot orifice coating method calender coating method electrodeposition coating method dip coating method die coating method etc. and printing methods such as letterpress printing methods such as flexographic printing method etc. intaglio printing methods such as direct gravure printing method offset gravure printing method etc. planographic printing methods such as offset printing method etc. stencil printing methods such as screen process printing method etc. can be used. Here thickness of the low refractive index layer formed as above may be properly decided considering the relationship between refractive index and wavelength of light it is not particularly limited and it is preferably 70 to 120 nm. In the case in which the thickness is in the above range surface resistance of the low refractive index layer can be less than 10 sq since it is one figure larger than that of the hard coat layer that is disposed at the lower side.

In the processes of drying polymerization and curing of a coating film for the low refractive index layer it is necessary that the solvent be evaporated by heating and that the coating film be cured by further heating. Heating temperature is preferably 40 C. or more and is more preferably 80 to 120 C. The upper limit of the heating temperature differs depending on the substance used however in the case in which a general transparent film is used the transparent firm becomes soft at more than 120 C. and cannot be used in practice.

The surface resistance of the low refractive index layer is preferably less than 10 sq and is more preferably 10 sq or less. In the case in which it is 10 sq or more sufficient antistatic properties cannot be exhibited.

With respect to refractive indexes among the hard coat layer the high refractive index layer and the low refractive index layer in the anti glare film of the present invention it is preferable that the refractive index of the hard coat layer after curing be 1.45 to 1.55 the refractive index of the high refractive index layer after curing be 1.6 to 1.8 and the refractive index of the low refractive index layer after curing be 1.36 to 1.42. In the case in which these refractive indexes deviate from the above range the anti reflection property is reduced.

In the anti glare film of the present invention by optimizing the above material and combination thereof average reflectivity can be 1 or less total light transmittance can be 90 or more and the HAZE value can be 2 or less. In addition the amount of change in the HAZE value on the surface thereof measured by an abrasion resistance test using steel wool can be 0.5 or less.

The second embodiment of the anti glare film according to the present invention includes a transparent substrate and at least a hard coat layer and a low refractive index layer provided on the transparent substrate wherein the hard coat layer contains a radiation curable resin composition containing electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particles has a thickness of 1.0 to 5.0 m and has a refractive index after curing of 1.6 to 1.8 the low refractive index layer contains fluorine containing polysiloxane and has a refractive index after curing of 1.36 to 1.42 and the electroconductive inorganic ultrafine particle is at least one selected from tin oxide indium tin oxide ITO and zinc oxide and is contained at 75 or more by weight ratio in the hard coat layer.

According to such a composition the second embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention has an effect in which not only are low reflectivity conductivity abrasion resistance and contamination resistance balanced but also production costs are reduced by decreasing coating processes.

Each component in the second embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention is similar to that in the first embodiment except that the hard coat layer and the high refractive index layer in the first embodiment are replaced with a hard coat layer in the second embodiment which has both functions of the high refractive index layer in the first embodiment. Therefore in the following only the hard coat layer in the second embodiment will be explained.

The hard coat layer in the second embodiment of the anti glare film of the present invention is a layer having a hardness of H or more according to a pencil hardness test Japanese Industrial Standard K5400 and the same structure and material as those of the above high refractive index layer in the first embodiment. However the following points are different.

The thickness of the hard coat layer in the second embodiment is preferably in a range of 1.0 to 5.0 m and more preferably in a range of 2.0 to 4.0 m. In the case in which the thickness of the hard coat layer is less than 1.0 m the abrasion resistance of the hard coat layer is degraded or in the case of a UV curable resin being employed in the hard coat layer the resin fails to cure due to oxidation inhibition. In contrast in the case in which the thickness of the hard coat layer is more than 5.0 m curling occurs due to curing shrinkage of the resin microcracking occurs in the hard coat layer the adhesion between the transparent substrate and the hard coat layer is decreased or optical transparency is reduced. Furthermore production costs are increased by increasing the coating amount of the coating material with increasing thickness of the film.

In addition the refractive index after curing of the hard coat layer in the second embodiment is preferably 1.6 to 1.8. In the case in which it is less than 1.6 sufficient anti reflectivity cannot be achieved even if a low refractive index layer is provided at upper side thereof. In contrast in the case in which it is more than 1.8 the difference of refractive indexes between the hard coat layer and the transparent substrate is excessively increased and interference unevenness is thereby increased when a low refractive index layer is provided.

In the second embodiment a fine rough surface is formed on the surface of the hard coat layer by dispersing and containing transparent resin fine particles in the hard coat layer and anti glare properties are thereby produced. As a transparent resin fine particle used here organic transparent particles made of acrylic resin polystyrene resin styrene acrylic copolymer polyethylene resin epoxy resin silicone resin polyvinylidene fluoride polyethylene fluoride resin etc. can be used. Refractive index of the transparent resin fine particle is preferably 1.40 to 1.75 and in the case in which the refractive index is less than 1.40 or more than 1.75 differences in refractive indexes between the transparent resin fine particle and the hard coat layer or the transparent base substance are too large and permeability is reduced. Particle diameter of the transparent particle is preferably 0.3 to 10 m and is more preferably 1 to 5 m. In the case in which the particle diameter is less than 0.3 m anti glare properties are reduced and in contrast in the case in which it is more than 10 m glare is generated and the surface of the layer appears to be fogged by increasing roughness of the surface.

In the following the present invention will be explained by Examples. Hereinbelow part means weight part .

The following hard coat coating material was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

38 parts of UV curable urethane acrylate oligomer trade name UV 7600 B solid concentration 100 produced by The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. 

The following high refractive index coating material was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured by irradiation in a nitrogen gas atmosphere with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a high refractive index layer having a thickness of 0.1 m and a refractive index of 1.64 was produced.

7 parts of a polyester resin having an average molecular weight of 65000 an acid value of 7 mg KOH g and non volatile components of 60 which was produced by reacting neopentylglycol and polybasic acid consisting of isophthalic acid and adipic acid 

34 parts of ITO powder having an average primary particle diameter of 0.05 m and content of Sn to In of 5 mol and

The above material and 50 cc of glass beads were put into a 250 cc container and were mixed for 5 hours by a paint shaker. After the mixing 0.2 parts of photoinitiator trade name IRGACURE 907 produced by Ciba Geigy Co. Ltd. was dissolved and a high refractive index coating material was produced.

The following low refractive index coating material was applied to the above high refractive index layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

7.9 parts of fluorine containing polysiloxane trade name LR 204 1 solid concentration 6.46 produced by Nissan Chemical Industries Ltd. and

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film of the present invention having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.57 was produced.

The same hard coat coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

As a high refractive index coating material zirconia oxide containing UV curable resin trade name KZ7391 solid concentration 42 ZrO content in solid component 68.0 produced by JSR Corporation was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a high refractive index layer having a thickness of 0.1 m and a refractive index of 1.64 was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to the above high refractive index layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.62 was produced.

The same hard coat coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 2.13 was produced.

The same hard coat coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

The same high refractive index coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a high refractive index layer having a thickness of 0.1 m and a refractive index of 1.64 was produced.

The following low refractive index coating material was applied to the above high refractive index layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

10 parts of silica sol ethanol dispersion which contains silica ultrafine particles having particle diameter of 15 nm and content of SiOof 30 weight 

15 parts of film forming agent hydrolyzate of tetraethoxysilane having solid concentration calculated as SiOof 6 and

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.68 was produced.

The same hard coat coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

The following high refractive index coating material was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a high refractive index layer having a thickness of 0.1 m and a refractive index of 1.61 was produced.

14 parts of polyester resin having an average molecular weight of 65000 an acid value of 7 mg KOH g and non volatile components of 60 which were produced by reacting neopentylglycol and polybasic acid consisting of isophthalic acid and adipic acid 

28 parts of ITO powder having average primary particle diameter of 0.05 m and content of Sn to In of 5 mol and

The above material and 50 cc of glass beads were put into a 250 cc container and were mixed for 5 hours by a paint shaker. After the dispersion 0.2 parts of a photoinitiator trade name IRGACURE 907 produced by Ciba Geigy Co. Ltd. was dissolved and a high refractive index coating material was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 1 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.95 was produced.

With regard to the anti glare films of Samples 1 to 5 as obtained above total light transmittance HAZE value reflectivity surface electric resistance abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were measured and evaluated by the following methods.

The total light transmittance and the HAZE value were measured using a HAZE meter trade name NDH 2000 produced by Japan Electric Color Co. Ltd. .

5 degree specular reflection was measured at wavelengths of 400 to 700 nm using a spectrophotometer trade name UV 3100 produced by Shimadzu Corporation and was luminosity corrected in accordance with Japanese Industrial Standard Z 8701 and the reflectivity is shown by a Y value. Here after the non measured surface of the film was completely painted with black magic ink the measurements were carried out.

Surface electric resistance was measured using a surface resistivity meter trade name HIRESTA UP produced by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation .

Steel wool 0000 produced by Nippon Steel Wool Co. Ltd. was mounted on a paperboard abrasion resistance test machine produced by Kumagai Riki Kogyo Co. Ltd. and was rubbed on the surface of the low refractive index layer of the anti glare film 10 times with a 250 g load. Then the change H of the HAZE value on the rubbed portion as calculated by the following equation 3 was measured by a HAZE meter. Here the larger the measured value the inferior the abrasion resistance. HAZE value after test HAZE value before test equation 3 

After a drop of rapeseed oil was dropped on the surface of the low refractive index layer the rapeseed oil was rubbed 20 times using a wiper trade name Clean Wiper SF30C produced by Kuraray Co. Ltd. containing ligroin. Subsequently an SEM photograph was taken of the wiped surface and adhesion of the rapeseed oil was observed. The contamination resistance was evaluated by criteria as follows a case in which the rapeseed oil was extremely adhered Low and a case in which the rapeseed oil was not adhered at all High.

As is apparent from Table 1 in the anti glare film of Sample 1 which was in accordance with the first embodiment of the present invention superior low reflective properties conductivity abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were obtained by using electroconductive inorganic fine particles containing radiation curable resin in the high refractive index layer and using fluorine containing polysiloxane in the low refractive index layer. In contrast in the anti glare film of Sample 2 for comparison conductivity and abrasion resistance were inferior in the anti glare film of Sample 3 for comparison low reflective properties and conductivity were inferior and in the anti glare film of Sample 4 for comparison abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were inferior and therefore the anti glare films could not be used in practice. Furthermore in the anti glare film of Sample 5 for comparison when the content of the electroconductive inorganic fine particles was below 75 conductivity were inferior and therefore the anti glare film could not be used in practice.

The following hard coat coating material was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.64 was produced.

7 parts of polyester resin having an average molecular weight of 65000 an acid value of 7 mg KOH g and non volatile components of 60 which was produced by reacting neopentylglycol and polybasic acid consisting of isophthalic acid and adipic acid 

34 parts of ITO powder having average primary particle diameter of 0.05 m and content of Sn to In of 5 mol and

The above material and 50 cc of glass beads were put into a 250 cc container and were mixed for 5 hours by a paint shaker. After the mixing 0.2 parts of a photoinitiator trade name IRGACURE 907 produced by Ciba Geigy Co. Ltd. was dissolved and a hard coat coating material was produced.

The following low refractive index coating material was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

7.9 parts of fluorine containing polysiloxane trade name LR 204 1 solid concentration 6.46 produced by Nissan Chemical Industries Ltd. and

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film of the present invention having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.81 was produced.

The following hard coat coating material was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.61 was produced.

8.4 parts of polyester resin having an average molecular weight of 65000 an acid value of 7 mg KOH g and non volatile components of 60 which was produced by reacting neopentylglycol and polybasic acid consisting of isophthalic acid and adipic acid 

The above material and 50 cc of glass beads were put into a 250 cc container and were mixed for 5 hours by a paint shaker. After the mixing 0.2 parts of a photoinitiator trade name IRGACURE 907 produced by Ciba Geigy Co. Ltd. was dissolved and a hard coat coating material was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film of the present invention having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.79 was produced.

As a hard coat coating material tin oxide containing UV curable resin trade name ESB 3 solid concentration 29.7 SnO content in solid component 82.0 produced by Dai Nippon Toryo Co. Ltd. was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.60 was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film of the present invention having a thickness of 0.1 m refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.82 was produced.

As a hard coat coating material zirconia oxide containing a UV curable resin trade name KZ7391 solid concentration 42 ZrO content in solid component 68.0 produced by JSR Corporation was applied to a PET film trade name A4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.69 was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.85 was produced.

The following hard coat coating material was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.52 was produced.

38 parts of UV curable urethane acrylate oligomer trade name UV 7600 B solid concentration 100 produced by The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. 

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 2.13 was produced.

The same hard coat coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to a PET film trade name A 4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.64 was produced.

The following low refractive index coating material was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

10 parts of silica sol ethanol dispersion which contains silica ultrafine particles having particle diameter of 15 nm and content of SiOof 30 weight 

15 parts of film forming agent hydrolyzate of tetraethoxysilane having solid concentration calculated as SiOof 6 and

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparing having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.92 was produced.

The following hard coat coating material was applied to a PET film trade name A4300 produced by Toyobo Co. Ltd. having a thickness of 100 m by using a reverse coating method and after drying at 100 C. for 1 minute the coating was cured in a nitrogen gas atmosphere by irradiation with UV light irradiation distance 10 cm irradiation time 30 seconds using a converging type high pressure mercury lamp of 120 W cm. As a result a hard coat layer having a thickness of 2.5 m and a refractive index of 1.61 was produced.

14 parts of polyester resin having an average molecular weight of 65000 an acid value of 7 mg KOH g and non volatile components of 60 which was produced by reacting neopentylglycol and polybasic acid consisting of isophthalic acid and adipic acid 

28 parts of ITO powder having average primary particle diameter of 0.05 m and content of Sn to In of 5 mol and

The above material and 50 cc of glass beads were put into a 250 cc container and were mixed for 5 hours by a paint shaker. After the mixing 0.2 parts of a photoinitiator trade name IRGACURE 907 produced by Ciba Geigy Co. Ltd. was dissolved and a hard coat coating material was produced.

The same low refractive index coating material as that of Sample 6 was applied to the above hard coat layer by using a reverse coating method and the coating was cured by drying at 100 C. for 1 minute.

Subsequently the low refractive index layer was cured by heating at 60 C. for 120 hours and therefore an anti glare film for comparison having a thickness of 0.1 m a refractive index of 1.38 and a reflectivity of 0.95 was produced.

With regard to the anti glare films of Samples 6 to 12 as obtained above total light transmittance HAZE value reflectivity surface electric resistance abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were measured and evaluated by the same methods as those of the above first embodiment.

As is apparent from Table 2 in the anti glare films of Samples 6 to 8 which were in accordance with the second embodiment of the present invention superior low reflective properties conductivity abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were obtained by using electroconductive inorganic fine particles containing radiation curable resin in the hard coat layer and using fluorine containing polysiloxane in the low refractive index layer. In contrast in the anti glare film of Sample 9 for comparison conductivity and abrasion resistance were inferior in the anti glare film of Sample 10 for comparison low reflective properties and conductivity were inferior and in the anti glare film of Sample 11 for comparison abrasion resistance and contamination resistance were inferior and therefore the anti glare films could not be used in practice. Furthermore in the anti glare film of Sample 12 for comparison when the content of the electroconductive inorganic fine particles was below 75 conductivity was inferior and therefore the anti glare film could not be used in practice.

