---

title: System and method for updating product pricing and advertising bids
abstract: A system and method maximize profits by determining the optimal combination of sale price for a product and bids for advertising. The system and method address the non-linear relationship between product pricing and advertising through an advertising bidding system. In particular, a seller sells a product at a plurality of sale prices and buys the at least one advertisement by submitting a plurality of bid prices to the at least one advertising venue, resulting in a combination of bid prices for the at least one advertisement at each of the plurality of sale prices. Data from advertising with each of the at least one advertisement is collected. Then, a non-linear model for pricing and bidding is determined from the collected data, and an optimal price for the product and an optimal advertising bid for each of the at least one advertisement is determined from the non-linear model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650066&OS=08650066&RS=08650066
owner: CSN Stores, Inc.
number: 08650066
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060821
---
The present invention generally relates to determining the optimal pricing and advertising expenditure for a seller s goods and services and more particularly to a system and method for determining the optimal prices and optimal advertising bids for a seller s goods and services based on an interdependence between price elasticity of demand and advertising through an advertising bidding system.

Over the course of the past decade the expansion of the Internet has been accompanied by the rise of electronic commerce e commerce . As the number of e commerce websites on the Internet has increased and the popularity of this commercial medium has grown more commonplace the need for sellers to be able to quickly accurately and efficiently acquire and process information about the markets they serve has increased considerably. As used herein a seller may refer to a retailer distributor manufacturer or any individual group or entity selling a product. Moreover a product may refer to any good or service.

Determining an optimal price for a product is one of the most important tasks for a seller because pricing is central to consumer interest and marketing efforts. When pricing products a seller must take into account all of the fixed and variable costs that it incurs while selling the product. These fixed or variable costs may include but are not limited to the wholesale price of the product or the cost of production freight charges and other related direct or indirect business operating costs and overhead. To ensure that the seller garners a profit the seller must price the product at some value higher than the total cost of selling the product. The seller loses money if the product is not priced to cover the total cost of selling the product.

The total cost of selling the product however is usually not the only factor in determining the price of a product. A very important factor is the effect that a change in price has on the demand for the product. This effect is known as price elasticity. A seller must usually consider the number of units of the product that the entire market of buyers is willing to buy at a particular price. This number of units is known as the quantity demanded. In most cases the quantity demanded for a product is inversely related to the price of the product. Thus as the price of a product decreases the quantity demanded usually increases. Conversely as the price of a product increases the quantity demanded usually decreases.

In some cases demand for a product may change significantly with the slightest change in price. In other cases the demand may experience insignificant change with a change in price. This sensitivity of the quantity demanded for a product in response to a change in its price is known as the price elasticity of demand.

A price for a product may be elastic unit elastic or inelastic. If the product price is elastic the quantity demanded is very sensitive to changes in price. In this case the seller must be cautious when adjusting the price as the quantity demanded can fluctuate drastically with even a slight change in price.

If the product s price is unit elastic the quantity demanded changes proportionality with a change in price. In this case as the price changes the quantity demanded changes but in close relation to the price change.

However in some cases the price of a product may be inelastic. In other words the quantity demanded is not sensitive to changes in price and generally speaking consumers demand the same amount of the product at any price. In this case as the price changes the quantity demanded is unlikely to change in a significant way.

Accordingly in order to maximize the total sales for a particular product a seller must take into account the price elasticity of the product and therefore price the product according to the relationship between price and demand. While this allows a seller to maximize the total monetary value of sales it may not allow for the maximization of profit.

In order to develop any significant demand for its product a seller must generally advertise its products and make the public aware of its goods. However the cost of advertising must be deducted from the gross sales along with other direct product costs in order to determine profit. As such a seller must consider the cost of advertising when determining the optimal price at which to sell a product in order to maximize profits. Thus when a seller spends more money on advertising it increases the demand and therefore revenue for a product but the seller s costs also increase as advertisement expenditures increase.

Various advertising venues are available for sellers to promote consumer knowledge about their goods and services. An advertising venue is any medium by which information about goods or services can be communicated. Traditional advertising venues include print media radio television telephone marketing and public displays. However the growth of the Internet as a medium for disseminating information has given sellers new types of advertising venues. Such advertising venues may direct the Internet users to a seller s own Internet website.

Advertising venues on the Internet price advertisements in various ways. The two most common pricing methods are to charge on either a Cost Per Impression CPI basis or a Cost Per Click CPC basis.

Common forms of CPI advertisements are banner ads link exchanges and pop up advertisements. A banner advertisement is a graphic image that appears on an Internet website most frequently at the top of the page designed to persuade users to click on the advertisement which then directs them via a hyperlink to the advertiser s website. A link exchange employs an advertising practice in which a first website features a graphical or text hyperlink to a second website in exchange for money and or an agreement by the second or other website to feature a graphical or text hyperlink to the first website. A pop up advertisement is a window that displays an advertisement within or over a website. People are exposed to these types of advertisements without any special action because they automatically either appear in the body of a webpage as is the case with banner advertisements and link exchanges or on their computer screens as is the case with pop up advertisements. CPI advertisements are billed to the advertiser on a fixed value based on the number of people exposed to the advertisement a system similar to the rate methods used in print media. Some CPI advertisements also have varying pricing schemes based upon the size and prominence of the advertisement e.g. where larger or more prominent advertisements cost more than smaller or less visible advertisements. Although there may be a hyperlink to a seller s own website in the CPI advertisement the advertising cost does not depend on whether the user actually clicks on the hyperlink.

Most CPC advertisements are based upon keyword searches in search engines. A keyword is a word or series of words that when entered into a search engine by a user triggers corresponding advertisements to appear. A seller typically uses a word or words that relate to the products for sale in order to attract potential customers. A search engine searches a database of web pages for the keyword s and typically presents a list of web pages associated with the keyword s . The web pages on the list are ranked or ordered according to relevancy which may vary according to different search engines. In addition to displaying these search results on these pages often advertisements are shown alongside the standard search results. These advertisements are often identified as such by appearing on a certain area of the page or having a textual or graphical indicator. However this may not always be the case and the advertisements may be intermingled with the standard search results with no indicator that they are in fact advertisements. As described below the ranking of the advertisements in some cases can also depend on the amount the advertiser pays for its advertisement to appear in the results. For example a user may enter the keywords TV stand through an online search engine whereby the search engine generates a results page that showcases advertisements that are associated with the keywords TV stand. In order for a seller to have its advertisement appear on the search results page associated with a keyword or keywords it must pay the search engine a predetermined fee every time a user clicks on its advertisement.

In straight auction bidding systems employed by companies like Overture also known as Yahoo Search Solutions a seller wishing to advertise chooses the keyword s on which it wishes to bid and then determines the maximum amount of money it is willing to pay each time someone who searches the keyword s clicks on its advertisement. An advertiser is able to see every bid in the system placed by other advertisers and can bid accordingly. These systems typically charge the advertiser an amount equal to one cent above the next highest bidder s bid for each time the advertiser s advertisement is clicked. Thus the actual cost for each click on the advertisement may be less than the bid.

In addition to straight auction style online advertisement bidding systems there are also more complex systems such as the blind bid style auctions employed by Google AdWords . In the blind bid style system used by Google a web seller wishing to advertise chooses a keyword that relates to the product it is trying to sell and informs Google of the maximum amount of money it is willing to pay each time someone clicks on the direct link to its website. In such blind bid CPC systems an advertiser is not able to see how much other advertisers are paying to have their websites featured. Moreover some CPC systems do not rank advertisers solely on their maximum advertisement bid. For instance Google ranks search results based on a number of factors such as click through rate and the seller s maximum advertisement bid. The click through rate is a percentage calculated by dividing the number of times an advertisement is clicked on by the number of times the advertisement is shown to users. The rank assigned to an advertisement at a search engine is significant because most online advertising systems are designed so that the advertiser who is willing to bid the highest has its advertisement shown the most frequently and or the most prominently. While this increases that advertiser s cost it is often the case that the advertisement that is featured the most frequently and prominently obtains the most prospective buyers and most likely also the most orders.

A seller is not limited to advertising at one advertising venue or one type of venue. In fact it is generally beneficial for the seller to advertise through different types of advertising venues simultaneously. In order to manage a successful advertising strategy the seller must collect data that allows it to assess the effectiveness of its advertisements in each advertising venue. For instance a seller who posts an advertisement through an Internet advertising venue that has a hyperlink to the seller s website is interested in the click through rate and conversion rate for the advertisement. Conversion rate indicates the percentage of consumers who actually make a purchase after accessing the seller s website through the hyperlink. Click through rates and conversion rates are highly important as they provide a gauge by which the seller can determine how effective an advertisement is at generating web traffic and at generating product sales.

As described previously a seller must be able to determine what combination of product price and advertising expense generates the most profit dollars. Product pricing must be higher than the total cost to sell which includes the applicable advertising costs. While advertising expenditures increase total costs they also create demand. Separately demand is also tied to product pricing. Thus finding the optimal profit point is very difficult since the interaction between product pricing and advertising expense can be non linear and often unpredictable.

Optimizing product pricing and advertising expenditures is made complex when using an advertising strategy that employs a variety of advertising venues. Conventional systems do not track and organize advertising data for sellers who have complex advertising strategies that use different advertising venues at the same time.

Moreover optimization is made even more complex when these advertising venues have a non linear effect on the demand they generate. Conventional systems only create models that assume a linear relationship between advertising costs and resulting sales as seen with print media which generally charge standard or fixed fees based on the level of circulation. A linear advertising model expresses advertising expenditures and resulting margin in terms of a proportional relationship. In other words a change in advertising creates a proportional change in the amount of demand generated. For example if a seller spends 10 to advertise a product and it results in 100 in profit a linear advertising model predicts that if the seller doubles advertising expenditures to 20 profit also doubles to 200. Conversely if the seller cuts advertising expenditures in half margin is also expected to decrease by the same percentage.

Linear based demand advertising models are generally sufficient for traditional advertising venues. However they are not sufficient for analyzing data in the complex area of Internet advertising. In particular the bidding systems used in Internet advertising create a non linear relationship between advertising expenditure and the demand and profit that result. These bidding systems are also dynamic and have constantly changing advertising rates associated with them. As a result linear models are insufficient for optimizing price and advertising expenditures when a seller advertises through one or more Internet advertising venues that use bidding systems to set the advertising rates.

In order to address the shortcomings of the conventional systems described above the present invention provides a system and method for maximizing profits by determining the optimal combination of sale price for a product and bids for advertising. In particular the present invention addresses the non linear relationship between product pricing and advertising through an advertising bidding system.

Accordingly exemplary embodiments of the present invention provide a system and method for maximizing profits from the sale of a product by a seller to consumers through a seller venue where the product is advertised with at least one advertisement provided by at least one advertising venue. The seller sells the product at a plurality of sale prices and buys advertisements by submitting a plurality of bid prices to the advertising venues resulting in a combination of bid prices for the advertisements at each of the plurality of sale prices. During a collection period data from advertising with each of the advertisements is collected. A non linear model for pricing and bidding is determined from the collected data. An optimal price for the product and an optimal advertising bid for each of the at least one advertisement is determined from the non linear model.

In particular an embodiment of the system may include a seller venue a logging engine and an optimization engine. The seller venue presents information about a product to consumers who are directed to the seller venue by at least one advertisement. During a collection period the logging engine collects data from advertising with each advertisement. Meanwhile the optimization engine determines from the collected data a non linear model for pricing and bidding. Furthermore the optimization engine determines from the non linear model an optimal price for the product and an optimal advertising bid for each of the advertisements. The logging engine may collect data on all activity whether or not the consumers are traceable to a particular advertisement and as a result the system may further include a data distributor for aggregating the data collected for the untraceable consumers with the data collected for the traceable consumers. Moreover the system may include a product database that stores a current sale price for the product and supplies the current sale price for the sale of the product to consumers where a product repricing trigger updates the product database with the optimal price for the product determined by the optimization engine. In addition the system may include an advertisement database for storing bid prices for buying advertisements an advertisement spending trigger for updating the bid prices in the advertisement database with the optimal bid prices determined by the optimization engine and a bid management engine for submitting the bid prices from the advertisement database to the advertising venues.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide a system and method which iteratively determines an optimal product price for a combination of bid prices for the advertisements. A starting price is set for the product. During a first collection period with the product priced according to the starting price data from advertising with each advertisement is collected. A lower price for the product is set where the lower price is less than the starting price by a decrement amount. During a second period with the product priced according to the lower price data from advertising with each of the advertisements is collected. A higher price for the product is also set where the higher price is greater than the starting price by an increment amount. During a third collection period with the product priced according to the higher price data from advertising with each of the advertisements. From the starting price the lower price and the higher price a profit maximizing price is determined according to the data collected during the first second and third collection periods. If the profit maximizing price is not equal to the starting price the steps above are repeated with the profit maximizing step as a new starting price until the iterations determine the optimal product price for the advertising bids. This iterative approach can be used for each of a plurality of sets of advertising bids to identify the optimal combination of product price and advertising bids. In this way the space mapping the relationship between product price and advertising bids can be determined. Conversely in an alternative embodiment the product price can initially be kept constant as an optimal combination of advertising bids is determined for the particular product price by iteratively evaluating a series of combinations of advertising bids. The optimal combination of advertising bids can than be found for a plurality of product prices.

As used herein the term seller refers to any person organization or entity that sells any good or service. A seller may be but is not limited to a commercial retailer distributor manufacturer or private seller whether or not the sale of goods or services occurs primarily through a website on the Internet. Although the embodiments of the present invention described herein may refer to web sellers in particular the present invention is not limited to sellers who conduct business on the web. For instance it is applicable to any seller who employs any advertising bidding system whether or not the bidding occurs over an electronic network.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description by illustrating a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

It has been discovered that conventional systems are incapable of determining the optimal prices and optimal advertising bids for a seller s goods and services due to the interdependence between price elasticity of demand and advertising through an advertising bidding system. In particular it has been discovered that conventional systems do not address the non linear relationship between product pricing and advertising through an advertising bidding system.

When attempting to maximize profit a seller must take into account the relationship between price elasticity of demand and associated advertising expenditures. Related advertising expenditures must be considered because the amount that a seller spends on advertising directly affects the number of sale prospects delivered and the number of orders generated in a manner which is not generally linear. Advertising at one or more venues increases the seller s sales but it also increases costs. While the increase in sales and the resulting profit may be greater than the related advertising expenditures this may not always be the case. As such one must evaluate various scenarios to determine the optimal combination of price and advertising. Generally speaking the more money a seller spends at an advertising venue the more prominently the seller s advertisements are displayed and consequently the seller experiences an increase in sales. However while spending more money improves the placement of the advertisement and increases sales it also causes an increase in advertisement costs and the resulting profit margin may or may not increase.

Accordingly the present invention provides a system and method for maximizing profits by determining the optimal combination of sale price for a product and bids for advertising. Moreover the present invention determines this optimal combination even when the seller advertises through a plurality of different advertising venues or advertisement providers where different expenditures can be made with different bids at each advertising venue for a given sale price for the product.

The data outlined in the examples described herein is purposefully simplified in order to provide a clear understanding of the present invention.

The system shown in is an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Specifically illustrates an advertising venue with an advertisement and a back end advertisement management interface . The advertising venue may refer to any system or provider that offers the seller an avenue to advertise. Consumers are exposed to advertisements through the advertising venue . The advertisement on the advertising venue is purchased by a seller according to a bidding system such as the CPC or CPI systems described above. Although the description herein may at times refer to a single advertisement it is understood that the exemplary system may employ more than one advertisement at the advertising venue . The back end advertisement management interface may be a software application which adds deletes or updates the seller s advertisement bids at the advertising venue based upon the data it receives from the bid management engine . The back end advertisement management interface may also be used to manage other aspects of advertising through advertisement venue .

The advertisement presents marketing or promotional information about a seller or a seller s products to consumers. The advertisement may include but is not limited to an advertisement on the Internet television radio printed publication or public display. The advertisement may present text pictures graphics or any form of information about a seller or a seller s products. Thus the advertisement may include marketing information and hyperlinks to a seller venue that are presented by an Internet search engine or other medium where consumer can search for or be exposed to advertisements associated with one or more keywords.

A product database stores the marketing information about a seller or a seller s products and the back end advertisement management interface may provide in certain cases this stored information to the advertisement . The product information may include data such as product name product description product weight and dimensions manufacturer or model numbers as well as keywords that can be associated with the product in search engines.

The seller employs a seller venue where consumers are able to obtain detailed information about the seller and the seller s products. The seller venue may also process sales transactions with consumers. By way of example the seller venue may be an Internet website that presents product information and accepts orders for products. If the advertisement of advertising venue is an advertisement on the Internet such as an entry in a search engine listing consumers who click on a hyperlink available through the advertisement are directed to the seller venue . On the other hand if the advertisement is a non Internet advertisement such as a radio or television advertisement consumers must access the seller venue through a manual process without the aid of a hyperlink. The pricing information for each product listed for sale on the seller venue is transmitted from the product database .

As indicated previously the seller venue and or the advertising venue may be accessible through an electronic network. As such one or more interface mechanisms can be used to access the seller venue and or the advertising venue including for example Internet access telecommunications in any suitable form e.g. voice modem and the like wireless communications media and the like. For example employed communications networks or links can include one or more wireless communications networks cellular communications networks G3 communications networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTNs Packet Data Networks PDNs the Internet intranets a combination thereof and the like.

When the seller venue and the advertisement are accessible on the Internet every advertisement has a Uniform Resource Locator URL which is the exact web address of a site on the Internet. In addition the URL for the advertisement contains an embedded tracking code. When a consumer uses a hyperlink on the advertisement to access the seller venue the seller is able to determine that the consumer accessed the seller venue through the advertisement because the tracking code information is transmitted to a logging engine which logs this tracking data.

Although the seller venue may be accessible through the Internet a seller may also choose to employ one or multiple non Internet advertisements separate from or in conjunction with an Internet advertisement. The seller venue is not accessed via hyperlink and correspondingly the non Internet advertisements do not have their own URL s with embedded tracking codes which are automatically transmitted with use of a hyperlink. However each non Internet advertisement can give consumers a URL to access the seller venue that is unique to the particular non Internet advertisement. All such unique URL s direct consumers to the same seller venue but have an embedded code which uniquely identifies the non Internet advertisement that led to a consumer s visit to the seller venue . The logging engine records the data identifying the non Internet advertisement.

In addition to storing data that associates each consumer with a specific advertisement the logging engine stores other data on consumer activity associated with the advertising venue in a log database . In particular for each advertising venue and for each individual advertisement this data may include but is not limited to the advertising venue and advertisement the number of consumers directed by the advertising venue to the seller s site the products purchased by directed consumers the number of units of each product purchased by directed consumers the product price shown to consumers the product profit margin per unit sold the seller s bid at the advertising venue the amount of money the seller was charged per click at the advertising venue and in the case of certain Internet advertising systems the ranking of the seller s advertisement at the advertising venue.

The information sent to the logging engine is stored in a log database . With respect to the databases described herein the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can store information relating to various processes and data described herein. This information can be stored in one or more memories such as a hard disk optical disk magneto optical disk RAM and the like of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments. One or more databases of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can store the information used to implement the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions. The databases can be organized using data structures e.g. records tables arrays fields graphs trees lists and the like included in one or more memories or storage devices listed herein. The processes described with respect to the exemplary embodiments can include appropriate data structures for storing data collected and or generated by the processes of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments in one or more databases thereof.

It is possible that the seller venue may not be able to determine the advertisement that led to a consumer s visit to the seller venue . Such a situation may occur when there is an error in the transmission of data identifying the advertisement or when the consumer accesses the seller venue without the aid of an advertisement. Although an advertisement cannot be associated with a customer s visit data regarding the untraceable customer s visit is still important in sales and profitability analysis as untraceable customers account for a percentage of the seller s total sales. Accordingly as shown in the exemplary embodiment of a data distributor is designed to automatically distribute data from untraceable customers in pro rata fashion to the data from traceable customers so that all sales are accounted for and associated with an advertisement.

More specifically as detailed by the tables in the system uses the data distributor which may be a software application to determine and account for the total number of units purchased by consumers who cannot be associated with a particular directing advertisement. In general the data distributor distributes the sales data from such consumers across the sales data that is attributed to each advertisement. While the example outlined in is illustrative of a method of distributing data based upon the pro rating of units sold it should be noted that the system is also capable of distributing the data by pro rating the sales dollar amounts or profit margins. Moreover the distribution may also employ other distribution techniques such as weighting factors to bias the data toward a particular type of advertisement rather than employing a straight pro rata approach.

Referring now to data set contains information gathered about consumers whose visits to the seller s venue can be traced to a directing advertisement. Also shown in the data set contains information gathered about consumers whose visits to the seller s system cannot be traced to a particular advertisement.

The data set contains five scenarios and each of which represent the data collected from consumer activity at the seller s venue which can be traced to advertisements from five independent advertisement venues. The seller advertises through the advertisements for a specified period of time such as one day. Additionally for each of the scenarios in data set the data is separated into ten categories including the product sales price A the direct product costs B the margin per unit C the maximum advertisement bid D the average actual cost per click E the generated traffic F the quantity sold G the percent quantity sold H the margin dollars I the advertisement cost J and lastly the margin after advertisement costs K.

The data set contains the scenario which represents the data collected about consumer activity at a seller s system for all consumers who were directed to the seller s system by an unknown advertisement. Additionally for the scenario illustrated in data set the data is also separated into the same ten categories as data set . However it should be noted that because the information in the data set is about consumers with unknown directing advertisements there will be no information regarding the maximum advertisement bid D the average actual cost per click E the advertisement cost J nor the margin after advertisement cost K.

Data distributor determines that in data set the seller sold a total of 71 units to customers with known advertisement venues by adding together the quantity sold G for each scenario. The data distributor also calculates that in data set the seller sold 18 units to customers with unknown directing advertisements.

Data distributor then determines for each scenario in data set the percentage of quantity sold H that each scenario accounts for out of the 71 total units sold to consumers with known directing advertisements.

Data distributor then determines the proportion of the percentage of the total quantity sold to consumers with unknown directing advertisements in data set by multiplying the total quantity sold in data set 18 units by the percentage of total quantity sold H for each scenario in data set .

Once the system has finished calculating both the percentage of quantity sold H for each scenario in data set and the proportion of the percentage of total quantity sold to consumers with unknown directing advertisements in dataset it creates the data set . The data set illustrates the five scenarios contained in the data set after the data about consumers with unknown directing advertisements contained in the data set has been distributed proportional amongst them. Additionally for each of the scenarios in data set the data is separated into thirteen categories including the product sale price AA the direct product costs BB the margin per unit CC the maximum advertisement bid DD the average actual cost per click EE the generated traffic FF the quantity sold GG the percentage of quantity sold HH the total quantity sold II margin dollars JJ advertisement costs KK and lastly the margin after advertisement costs LL.

The data set adds the quantity sold GG as gathered from the data set to the percentage of quantity sold from together to determine the total quantity sold II. This process is completed for each scenario in the system. Now that the system has distributed the data gathered about consumers with unknown directing advertisement venues it is able to recalculate margin and margin after advertising cost as illustrated in the data set by margin dollars JJ and margin after advertising cost LL.

The data distributor processes the data it receives from the log database which contains all of the data gathered by the logging engine . The logging engine collects data on consumer activity generated by the advertising venue . The logging engine also collects data on the seller s bidding at the advertising venue .

All of the data contained in the log database and modified by the data distributor is stored in the distributed data database and can either be transmitted to the optimization engine manually or at programmable intervals.

As stated above the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can include computer readable media or memories for holding instructions programmed according to the teachings of the present inventions and for holding data structures tables records and or other data described herein. Computer readable medium can include any suitable medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media transmission media and the like. Non volatile media can include for example optical or magnetic disks magneto optical disks and the like. Volatile media can include dynamic memories and the like. Transmission media can include coaxial cables copper wire fiber optics and the like. Transmission media also can take the form of acoustic optical electromagnetic waves and the like such as those generated during radio frequency RF communications infrared IR data communications and the like. Common forms of computer readable media can include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other suitable magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other suitable optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other suitable physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other suitable memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other suitable medium from which a computer can read.

Returning to the embodiment of the optimization engine is a software application that processes data contained in the distributed data database in order to determine the optimal profit maximizing price for each product and the optimal advertisement bid at each advertisement venue for each advertisement. However in order to do this the optimization engine first makes calculations using the data transmitted from the distributed data database regarding various data including conversion rates advertisement cost and profit margins.

As mentioned earlier the conversion rate is the percentage of visitors to a seller s system that actually make purchases. Using the data transmitted from the distributed data database the optimization engine determines the conversion rates for each advertisement employed by the seller by dividing the total number of purchases made by visitors from each advertisement by the number of visitors generated by that specific advertisement.

The optimization engine then proceeds to calculate the profit margin after advertisement costs for each advertisement at each advertisement venue the seller is employing. To do this the optimization engine determines the margin per unit for each individual product based on a specific product price the total margin before advertisement costs for each individual advertisement in a specific scenario and the advertisement s cost for each scenario.

The optimization engine first calculates the margin per unit by subtracting the direct product costs which include wholesale cost freight expense and any associated handling costs from the actual sale price of the product. The optimization engine calculates the total margin before advertisement costs for each advertisement at each venue by taking all relevant orders and subtracting from the total sales amount all of the actual direct products costs.

Next the optimization engine determines the advertising cost for each scenario. In the case of a CPC system the advertising expense for each scenario is the summation of the cost per click charges accrued for the advertisement at each advertising venue during the time period defined by the scenario. A scenario refers to an advertisement being employed at a specific advertisement bid amount at a specific advertisement venue being employed over a specified time span. Finally to determine the profit margin after advertisement costs for each scenario the optimization engine subtracts the advertisement s costs from the margin dollars before advertisement costs. The combination of scenarios with the largest total profit margin indicates the optimal combination of product price and advertising bids. This process is further detailed below in the discussion of .

The optimization engine determines both the optimal price and the optimal advertising bid from the data it processes. Thus the optimal combination of price and advertising bids determined by the optimization engine depends on the data gathered. The optimization engine constantly receives data about each price point from the distributed data database . The amount of data available to the optimization engine increases with the number of combinations that are actually implemented. Accordingly a dynamic approach may be employed where the optimal product price and advertising bids are adjusted as more data is gathered. In addition to taking into account any changes in the effectiveness of the advertisements this continuous adjustment factors in changes in the overall market that impact demand.

Moreover an iterative process may be used to search for the optimal product price and advertising bids by evaluating a series of product price updates where the product is advertised with advertisements at a particular set of advertising bids. The optimization engine controls the product repricing trigger to iteratively update and evaluate a plurality of price points for a constant set of advertisement bids constant. The logging engine collects information regarding each price point. The optimization engine finds the most profitable price point among the implemented price points and creates new price points according to this most optimal price point. These new price points are then implemented to collect more data. This search continues until it narrows to the optimal profit maximizing price for the particular set of advertising bids. This iterative approach can be used for each of a plurality of sets of advertising bids to identify the optimal combination of product price and advertising bids. In this way the space mapping the relationship between product price and advertising bids can be determined.

Conversely in another embodiment the product price can be kept constant as optimal advertising bids are determined at the particular product price by iteratively evaluating a series of advertising bids i.e. a starting bid a lower bid and a higher bid for each advertisement. The optimal advertising bids can than be found for a plurality of product prices. Nevertheless both iterative approaches allow the landscape of product prices and advertising bids to be mapped.

With the iterative approaches described hereinabove it is understood that the set of advertising bids does not necessarily mean that the same bid is being employed for all advertisements across all advertising venues. In practice the seller is likely to employ different bid levels for different advertisements even for advertisements with the same advertising venue. It is further understood that even if the iterative approach does determine an optimal price point or an optimal combination of advertising bids for a plurality of advertisements the optimal product price and the optimal advertising bids are not likely to remain static because the market is dynamic. As such the seller may have to re execute the iterative technique again in order to track changes in the market that may affect the optimal product price or advertising bids. Moreover even if step as shown in finds that the profit maximizing price is not equal to the starting point the process does not have to move immediately to step and evaluation of a new starting point equal to the determined profit maximizing price can be executed at a later time. Furthermore although the collection periods are preferably equal to facilitate analysis of the data the data collected can be normalized if the collection periods are not equal.

Referring back to the optimization engine uses the repricing trigger to update the prices in the product database while simultaneously using an advertisement spending trigger to update the maximum advertising bid in advertisement database . The product repricing trigger and the advertisement spending trigger are each run by software that monitors the system and checks the optimization engine for updates at specific programmable amounts of time.

The updated product prices stored in product database are transmitted on a scheduled basis to the seller venue where they are presented to consumers as well as to the bid management engine . The updated advertisement bid information and the updated product price information is used by bid management engine to update advertising information at the back end advertisement management interface which adds edits or deletes the advertisements and updates the seller s maximum advertisement bids at advertising venue . A exemplary embodiment of the system is designed to use an application programming interface which allows data exchange between the bid management engine and the advertising venues to update the seller s maximum advertisement bid. These bids may however be updated manually by using an interface provided by the advertising venue.

The table in contains data collected at three separate price points of 80 90 and 100. Each of the three price points is tested at two separate and independent advertising venues that employ bidding systems advertisement venue and advertisement venue . In this example only one advertisement is run at each of the two advertising venues. Returning to the advertisement venues and correspond with the advertisement venue and are illustrative of the types of advertisement venues a seller can employ.

It is understood that the example of is merely a simplified demonstration and that the present invention is applicable to situations where a product is marketed through multiple advertising venues each with multiple advertisements for the product. Moreover there is not necessarily a 1 N relationship between the product and advertisements. In other words a single advertisement may be used to market more than one product. Regardless the present invention tracks activity and logs data for each product attributable to the single advertisement.

Generally the seller employs more than one advertisement at each advertising venue. provides an example in which the seller is employing only one advertisement at each advertising venue. However in terms of complexity the example is akin to employing two separate advertisements at one advertisement venue e.g. advertisement and advertisement would be available through the same advertising venue. Each of these circumstances is processed in the same way.

At the advertising venue the bids tested are 0.15 0.20 and 0.35. At the advertising venue the bids tested are 0.20 and 0.40. Each bid is tested at three different price points. In addition each bid at the advertising venue is tested with each bid at advertising venue and vice versa. Thus a total of 18 independent scenarios are created with each scenario using the averages of the data collected over the course of one week.

Data is gathered at two separate and non linear advertisement venues and regarding each of the scenarios and . Additionally the data for each of the scenarios is separated into 20 categories including the product sales price A the direct product costs B the margin per unit C which are the same at both the advertisement venue and the advertisement venue .

The data regarding the scenarios behavior at the advertisement venue and the advertisement venue is further divided into the maximum advertisement bid D the average actual cost per click E the generated traffic F the conversion rate G the quantity sold H the margin dollars I the advertisement cost J and the margin after advertisement costs K.

Lastly the final data category in is the total margin after advertisement cost L which combines the margin after advertisement cost K from both the advertisement venue and the advertisement venue .

Referring back to the exemplary embodiment each of the scenarios outlined in are representative of the advertisement for their respective advertisement venues and . Furthermore the data in regarding each of the aforementioned scenarios respective gross and per unit margins advertisement bids actual advertising costs generated web traffic conversion rate quantity demanded and resulted margin dollars are all illustrative of the type of data that is collected by the logging engine normalized by the data distributor stored in the distributed data database and modified by the optimization engine .

As illustrated by the scenario and the scenarios in the advertisement venue a non linear relationship exists between advertising expenditures and resulting margin dollars. In the scenario the advertisement costs J is 300 which results in 150 in margin dollars I. If the relationships between advertising expenditures and margin dollars were linear meaning a proportional relationship existed between the two variables one could expect that if the seller were to spend only 100 on advertising the resulted margin dollars would be one third of margin dollars generated when 300 is spent on advertisement or 50. However as illustrated by the scenario the seller s advertisement cost J is 100 which results in 150 margin dollars I.

As illustrated in the advertisement venue there is an inverse relationship between product price and conversion rates. Generally speaking as price increases conversion rates decrease. However as illustrated by price point even though it does not have the highest conversion rate G when advertisement costs are taken into account it becomes clear that actualized margin which is margin after advertisement costs K for price point is 62 dollars greater than price points in advertisement venue where the conversion rate G is highest. While there is commonly an inverse relationship between product price and conversion rates it is possible though unlikely that there could also be a direct relationship between the two variables.

Scenario is illustrative of the fact that the price point alone is not a wholly effective method of determining the optimal profit maximizing price. In scenario while looking only at advertising venue there is a price point of 90 and a resulting margin after advertisement costs K of 75 yet this is not the case for scenarios each of those four scenarios share the price point of 90 however they all have margins after advertisement costs K below 75 partially based on the fact that they have advertisement bids other than 0.35.

The data gathered about scenario in advertisement venue is illustrative of the fact that a seller cannot find the optimal profit maximizing price while only changing the price point. However because this scenario is taking place at two separate and independent advertisement venues simultaneously this is not the case when scenario is considered in its entirety.

Scenarios and are also exemplary of the fact that determining the optimal profit maximizing price is a dynamic process that is constantly monitored in order to ensure that a web seller is in fact advertising their product at the optimal price. When looking solely at the results of advertising venue scenarios and both share the same price point of 90 and both were tested at a bid of 0.35 however scenario has a margin after advertisement cost K of 75 while scenario which represents data collected the following week only has an margin after advertisement costs K of 60.

As the data in demonstrates if this product were being advertised solely at advertisement venue the system would determine that the optimal profit maximizing scenario would be scenario which has a profit maximizing price of 90. In order to achieve the quantity sold demanded H of 25 that results in a margin after advertisement cost K of 75 the bid is 0.35 per click.

However because the seller is advertising this product at both advertisement venue and advertisement venue and the seller can only advertise and sell a product at one price at any given time the system needs to determine which price point produces the greatest total margin after advertisement cost when the margin after advertisement cost K in advertisement venue is added to the margin after advertisement cost K in advertisement venue . This is illustrated by price point .

While price point has one of the lower conversion rates G in the advertisement venue and only an average conversion rate G in the advertisement venue it is still the optimal price point because the total margin after advertisement costs L is 175.

Returning to once the optimization engine determines that the optimal price point is 100 it employs the product trigger to update the price for the product in the product database which in turn updates the price being advertised in the advertisement .

The optimization engine also employs the advertisement spending trigger to update the advertisement database so that it contained the correct combination of profit maximizing advertisement bids associated with the optimal price point. In the case of this means that the optimization engine changes the seller s maximum advertisement bid D to 0.20 for the advertisement running at advertisement venue and the maximum advertisement bid D to 0.40 for the advertisement running at advertisement venue .

The number of scenarios and time frames detailed in this example are by way of example and it should be noted that the system is capable of updating pricing and advertisement bids using any number of scenarios and time spans. It should also be noted that the examples illustrated in and may seem simplistic however there is a scalability factor that must be addressed. When applying the exemplary embodiment to a real world setting the calculations are made infinitely more complex when a seller employs a marketing strategy that implements a variety of independent and varied advertisements at a number of independent and varied advertisement venues and uses multiple advertisement bids for the various advertisements at the various advertisement venues and in addition tests numerous price points for each their products.

It is to be understood that the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments are for exemplary purposes. All or a portion of the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can be conveniently implemented using one or more general purpose computer systems microprocessors digital signal processors micro controllers and the like programmed according to the teachings of the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions as is appreciated by those skilled in the computer and software arts. Appropriate software can be readily prepared by programmers of ordinary skill based on the teachings of the exemplary embodiments as is appreciated by those skilled in the software art. Further the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can be implemented on the World Wide Web. In addition the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments can be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as is appreciated by those skilled in the electrical art s . Thus the exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software.

Stored on any one or on a combination of computer readable media the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions can include software for controlling the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments for driving the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments for enabling the devices and subsystems of the exemplary embodiments to interact with a human user and the like. Such software can include but is not limited to device drivers firmware operating systems development tools applications software and the like. Such computer readable media further can include the computer program product of an embodiment of the present inventions for performing all or a portion if processing is distributed of the processing performed in implementing the inventions. Computer code devices of the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions can include any suitable interpretable or executable code mechanism including but not limited to scripts interpretable programs dynamic link libraries DLLs Java classes and applets complete executable programs Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA objects and the like. Moreover parts of the processing of the exemplary embodiments of the present inventions can be distributed for better performance reliability cost and the like.

While the present inventions have been described in connection with a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations the present inventions are not so limited but rather cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of prospective claims.

