---

title: Memory cell bit valve loss detection and restoration
abstract: For one embodiment, an apparatus may include a memory cell to store a bit value, wherein the memory cell may lose the bit value in response to a memory access operation. The apparatus may also include first circuitry to detect whether the memory cell loses the bit value in response to the memory access operation and second circuitry to restore the bit value in the memory cell in response to detection that the memory cell loses the bit value. Other embodiments include other apparatuses, methods, and systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07653846&OS=07653846&RS=07653846
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 07653846
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061228
---
This patent application discloses technology related to that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 172 078 filed Jun. 29 2005 entitled MEMORY CIRCUIT by Muhammad M. Khellah Dinesh Somasekhar Yibin Ye and Vivek K. De now abandoned.

Memory cell also has NFETs and to access memory cell to read a bit value from and or write a bit value to memory cell . The gate of NFET is coupled to receive a signal on a word line to couple storage node to a bit line . The gate of NFET is coupled to receive a signal on word line to couple storage node to a bit line . Memory cell may then be accessed by sensing the complementary signals on bit lines and to read the bit value stored by memory cell or by asserting complementary signals on bit lines and to write a bit value to memory cell . NFETs and are known as transfer access or pass transistors.

To speed reading the bit value PFETs and are activated in response to a signal on a precharge line to precharge bit lines and by coupling them to a supply voltage Vnode. The bit value may then be read as soon as bit line is pulled down by NFET pair and or bit line is pulled down by NFET pair and without having to wait for the other bit line or to be pulled up.

Memory cell may be designed to help meet a desired level of stability for a given memory size and process to help improve manufacturing yield. Memory cell may be designed for example to account for mismatch in threshold voltage Vth of neighboring transistors as such mismatch reduces stability. As transistor dimensions are scaled accounting for threshold voltage mismatch can prove challenging as the variability in the number and location of channel dopant atoms can result in restrictive electrical deviations in transistor threshold voltages Vth.

Read stability can be loosely defined as the probability that memory cell will retain its stored bit value during a read operation. Memory cell is more susceptible to noise during a read operation because the voltage at the low storage node such as storage node for example will rise due to the voltage division by neighboring NFETs and between precharged bit line and the ground node when NFET is activated. Read stability is therefore generally proportional to the ratio of the transconductance of NFET relative to that of NFET .

Write stability can be loosely defined as the probability that memory cell will be written with an intended bit value during a write operation. Because a write is performed by discharging the voltage at the high storage node such as storage node for example through NFET write stability is generally proportional to the ratio of the transconductance of NFET relative to that of PFET .

Example ways to improve stability of memory cell include 1 sizing pull down NFET and to have an increased width at the expense of increased cell area and reduced write stability 2 sizing access NFET and to have a larger channel length at the expense of reduced read current and therefore reduced read operation speed 3 using a separate increased supply voltage Vat the expense of additional circuitry and increased power consumption and or heat and or 4 adding a scalable negative supply voltage generator at the expense of additional circuitry to drive the source of pull down NFET and to a negative voltage before word line is activated to increase the strength of pull down NFET and .

The following detailed description sets forth example embodiments of apparatuses methods and systems relating to memory cell bit value loss detection and restoration. Features such as structure s function s and or characteristic s for example are described with reference to one embodiment as a matter of convenience various embodiments may be implemented with any suitable one or more described features.

Integrated circuit for one embodiment as illustrated in may include memory that includes a memory array and access control circuitry . Memory array may have a plurality of memory cells such as memory cells MC and for example. One or more memory cells may store a bit value. Access control circuitry may be coupled to access memory cells in memory array .

One or more memory cells may lose a bit value in response to a memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include circuitry such as loss detection circuitry and for example to detect whether one or more memory cells lose a bit value in response to a memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may also include circuitry such as sense and write back circuitry and for example to restore a bit value in a memory cell in response to detection that the memory cell loses the bit value.

Circuitry to detect loss of and restore a bit value in a memory cell for one embodiment may be used to account for cell instability. That is memory array may be accessed and a memory cell that loses a bit value in response to the access may have the bit value restored. Memory array for one embodiment may then be implemented with relatively reduced concern for cell stability. Memory array for one embodiment may therefore be designed with relatively denser memory cells with relatively less circuitry and or with relatively less power consumption.

Circuitry to detect loss of and restore a bit value in a memory cell for one embodiment may also be used to help reduce or avoid unnecessary write operations to restore a bit value in a memory cell when that memory cell did not lose the bit value. Instead of performing a write operation for every memory cell that might only potentially lose a bit value a write operation may be performed for one or more memory cells detected to have actually lost a bit value. Avoiding unnecessarily restoring a bit value in one or more memory cells detected to have not lost a bit value for one embodiment may help reduce power consumption.

Circuitry to detect loss of and restore a bit value in a memory cell for one embodiment may also be used for one or more memory cells that are not a target of a memory access operation. Such circuitry for one embodiment may be used to account for one or more memory cells that may lose a bit value in response to a memory access operation even though such memory cell s for example are not to have their bit value s included in any read data for the memory access operation and or are not to be written with a bit value included in any write data for the memory access operation.

Memory array may include any suitable circuitry to implement any suitable memory cells to store data in any suitable manner. One or more memory cells of memory array for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to store one or more signals representative of a bit value. One or more memory cells of memory array for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to store complementary signals representative of a bit value. One or more memory cells of memory array for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to implement any suitable static random access memory SRAM cell such as any suitable six transistor 6T SRAM cell for example. One or more memory cells for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to implement any suitable destructive read memory cell such as a destructive read static random access memory DR SRAM cell for example. One or more memory cells of memory array for one embodiment may include circuitry for a 6T SRAM cell similar to that shown in and may be designed with relatively reduced concern for cell stability. One or more memory cells for one embodiment may be designed with a unity beta ratio where devices are substantially equally sized with relatively less or minimal geometry.

Memory array may include any suitable circuitry to implement any suitable memory cells arranged in any suitable manner. Memory array for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry for an array of any suitable number of memory cells logically arranged in any suitable number of rows and any suitable number of columns. A row of memory cells for one embodiment may correspond to memory cells coupled along a select or word line such as word line of for example. A column of memory cells for one embodiment may correspond to memory cells coupled along a bit line. For one embodiment where memory cells have circuitry to store complementary signals representative of a bit value a column of such memory cells for one embodiment may be coupled along complementary bit lines such as columns and of for example.

Access control circuitry may include any suitable circuitry coupled to access memory cells of memory array in any suitable manner. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may access memory cells of memory array in response to requests from logic . Logic for one embodiment as illustrated in may be part of integrated circuit . Logic for another embodiment may be external to integrated circuit .

Access control circuitry for one embodiment may be coupled to receive from logic for example address signals and or one or more control signals for a memory access operation and may be coupled to receive read data signals from and or transmit write data signals to logic for example for the memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may receive address signals to identify for a memory access operation one or more target memory cells from which data is to be read and optionally returned for the memory access operation or to which data is to be written for the memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may receive one or more control signals for a memory access operation to identify whether data is to be written to or read from memory cells.

Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to select a plurality of memory cells for a memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment as illustrated in may include row decoding circuitry coupled to receive at least a portion of an address from logic for example and to assert a signal on a corresponding word line to select memory cells in a row of memory cells of memory array in response to the received address or address portion.

Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to select from the selected plurality of memory cells one or more target memory cells for a memory access operation excluding one or more other selected memory cells. Access control circuitry for one embodiment as illustrated in may include column control circuitry and input output I O circuitry . Column control circuitry may be coupled to receive at least a portion of the address from logic for example and to assert one or more signals on one or more column select lines to control I O circuitry to select one or more columns of memory cells of memory array in response to the received address or address portion. I O circuitry may include any suitable circuitry coupled to select any suitable number of one or more columns from among any suitable number of columns of memory array in any suitable manner in response to one or more signals from column control circuitry . A memory cell in both a row selected by row decoding circuitry and a selected column for one embodiment may be a target memory cell for a memory access operation.

For one example with reference to row decoding circuitry may assert a signal on word line to select for a memory access operation memory cells in a row including memory cells and . Column control circuitry may assert one or more signals to control I O circuitry to select for the memory access operation one or more columns such as column but not column for example. Selected memory cell may therefore be a target memory cell for the memory access operation and selected memory cell may not be a target memory cell for the memory access operation.

I O circuitry may include any suitable circuitry coupled to read from one or more target memory cells a bit value for inclusion in at least a portion of read data for a memory access operation and or to write to one or more target memory cells a bit value from at least a portion of write data for a memory access operation.

Selecting memory cells for a memory access operation for one embodiment may result in one or more memory cells losing a bit value. For one embodiment where memory cells along a word line are implemented for example as memory cell of with reduced concern for cell stability assertion of a signal on the word line to select such memory cells might potentially result in one or more such memory cells losing a bit value.

Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include circuitry such as loss detection circuitry and for example coupled to detect whether one or more selected memory cells lose a bit value. I O circuitry for one embodiment may include sense and write back circuitry such as sense and write back circuitry and for example coupled to sense and write back a bit value in one or more selected memory cells detected to have lost a bit value to restore the bit value in such memory cell s . Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may be coupled to sense on one or more bit lines one or more signals representative of a bit value from a selected memory cell and to assert on such bit line s one or more signals representative of the bit value to the memory cell.

Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may also be used to sense a bit value from one or more target memory cells for a memory access operation. Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may be coupled to sense on one or more bit lines one or more signals representative of a bit value from a target memory cell for a memory access operation and to output one or more signals representative of the bit value for at least a portion of read data for the memory access operation. Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may be implemented to write back a bit value to a memory cell when activated to sense the bit value from the memory cell. Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may therefore write back a bit value to one or more target memory cells regardless of whether such target memory cell s are detected to have lost a bit value. Such sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may therefore sense and write back a bit value in some selected memory cells for the memory access operation but not sense and write back a bit value in one or more other selected memory cells.

I O circuitry for one embodiment may include sense and write back circuitry corresponding to individual columns of memory cells. As illustrated in for one embodiment sense and write back circuitry may correspond to column and sense and write back circuitry may correspond to column . I O circuitry for one embodiment may help select one or more columns and therefore one or more target memory cells for a memory access operation by selectively activating sense and write circuitry for one or more columns in response to one or more signals from column control circuitry .

For one example with reference to memory cells and may be selected by assertion of a signal on word line for a memory access operation. Selected memory cell may be a target memory cell for the memory access operation and selected memory cell may not be a target memory cell for the memory access operation. Sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may be activated to sense a bit value from target memory cell for the memory access operation and write back the bit value to target memory cell . Loss detection circuitry may detect whether selected memory cell loses a bit value as a result of being selected. If memory cell is detected to have lost a bit value sense and write back circuitry may be activated to sense and write back the bit value in memory cell to restore the bit value. If memory cell is not detected to have lost a bit value sense and write back circuitry may remain deactivated for the memory access operation.

I O circuitry for one embodiment may also include precharge circuitry coupled to precharge bit lines coupled to memory cells in columns. I O circuitry for one embodiment may also include as illustrated in any suitable number of any suitable multiplexer s such as a multiplexer for example to selectively output one or more bit values read from one or more target memory cells for inclusion in at least a portion of read data for a memory access operation. Such multiplexer s for one embodiment may be used to help select one or more columns and therefore one or more target memory cells for a memory access operation in response to one or more signals from column control circuitry . I O circuitry for one embodiment may also include one or more write drivers to write a bit value to one or more target memory cells for a memory access operation. I O circuitry for one embodiment may include one or more write drivers coupled to receive from logic for example one or more signals representative of a bit value from write data for a memory access operation and to assert one or more corresponding signals on one or more bit lines to a target memory cell.

Access control circuitry may include any suitable loss detection circuitry to detect whether one or more memory cells lose a bit value in response to a memory access operation. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable loss detection circuitry to detect during a memory access operation whether one or more memory cells lose a bit value during the memory access operation.

One or more memory cells for one embodiment may include circuitry that influences an analog signal at a supply node for the memory cell when the memory cell loses a bit value. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable loss detection circuitry to sense an analog signal at the supply node of a memory cell and detect whether the memory cell loses a bit value based at least in part on the sensed analog signal. Such circuitry for one embodiment may sense current flowing through the supply node. Such circuitry for one embodiment may sense a voltage at the supply node. Such circuitry for one embodiment may compare a sensed analog signal to a reference and detect whether the memory cell loses a bit value based at least in part on the comparison. Such circuitry for one embodiment may assert a restore signal if such circuitry detects a memory cell losing a bit value.

For one embodiment memory cells in a column may share a supply node to supply power to such memory cells. Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include loss detection circuitry corresponding to individual columns. As illustrated in for one embodiment loss detection circuitry may correspond to column and loss detection circuitry may correspond to column . Loss detection circuitry for a column for one embodiment may be coupled to sense an analog signal at a supply node for memory cells of the column. When a memory cell of the column is selected for a memory access operation loss detection circuitry for the column may detect whether that memory cell loses a bit value based at least in part on the sensed analog signal.

A memory cell for one embodiment may include circuitry to store complementary signals representative of a bit value such as the circuitry of memory cell of for example and switch or flip the stored complementary signals when the memory cell loses a bit value to create an extra current inflow through supply node and or a voltage droop at supply node . Sense amplifier for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to compare a current flowing through supply node to a reference to detect extra current inflow and therefore detect the memory cell losing a bit value. Sense amplifier for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to compare a voltage at supply node to a reference to detect a voltage droop and therefore detect the memory cell losing a bit value.

Access control circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to selectively enable or activate loss detection circuitry to detect a selected memory cell losing a bit value. Loss detection circuitry for one embodiment may be enabled in response to assertion of an enable signal by column control circuitry for example. Column control circuitry for one embodiment may enable loss detection circuitry for a memory access operation. Column control circuitry for one embodiment may enable loss detection circuitry corresponding to selected memory cells including target and non target memory cells for a memory access operation using for example a global enable signal. Column control circuitry for one embodiment may enable loss detection circuitry selectively for individual selected memory cells for a memory access operation.

For one embodiment as illustrated in a pull up transistor may be coupled to couple first input of sense amplifier to a supply node when activated in response to deassertion of an enable signal by column control circuitry for example to help prevent sense amplifier from sensing an analog signal at supply node . Pull up transistor may then decouple first input from supply node when deactivated in response to assertion of the enable signal by column control circuitry for example to allow sense amplifier to sense an analog signal at supply node .

Although described in connection with pull up transistor loss detection circuitry for one embodiment may include any other suitable circuitry to selectively enable sense amplifier .

Access control circuitry for another embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to implement a differential current sensing technique to detect switching of stored complementary signals when a selected memory cell in a corresponding column loses a bit value.

I O circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable sense and write back circuitry to sense and write back a bit value in one or more selected memory cells.

I O circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to selectively enable or activate sense and write back circuitry to restore a bit value in a selected memory cell in response to detection of the selected memory cell losing a bit value and or to sense in the selected memory cell a bit value for inclusion in at least a portion of read data for a memory access operation. I O circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to enable sense and write back circuitry in response to a restore signal from corresponding loss detection circuitry. I O circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to enable sense and write back circuitry in response to a corresponding column select signal from column control circuitry .

For one embodiment as illustrated in an enable transistor may be coupled between cross coupled inverters and and the second supply node for example to enable or sense amplifier when enable transistor is activated. Sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to implement logic coupled to activate enable transistor in response to assertion of a restore signal from corresponding loss detection circuitry or in response to assertion of a corresponding column select signal such as a corresponding active low column select signal YSEL i for example from column control circuitry . Sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment as illustrated in may implement logic to allow sense amplifier to be enabled in response to assertion by column control circuitry of a global sense amplifier enable signal SAE for a memory access operation.

For one embodiment as illustrated in enable transistors and may be coupled in parallel between cross coupled inverters and and the second supply node for example to enable sense amplifier when transistor and or transistor are activated. Enable transistor for one embodiment may be coupled to be activated in response to assertion of a restore signal from corresponding loss detection circuitry . Enable transistor for one embodiment may be coupled to be activated in response to assertion of a corresponding column sense amplifier enable signal SAE i from column control circuitry .

Although described in connection with circuitry illustrated in sense and write back circuitry for one embodiment may include any other suitable circuitry to selectively enable sense amplifier .

I O circuitry for one embodiment may include any suitable circuitry to output one or more signals representative of a bit value sensed from a selected memory cell for inclusion in at least a portion of read data for a memory access operation. For one embodiment as illustrated in a multiplexer transistor may be coupled between a storage node defined by cross coupled inverters and and a data signal line and may be coupled to be activated in response to assertion by column control circuitry of a corresponding column select signal such as a corresponding active low column select signal YSEL i for example to output at least one of the sensed signals such as bit line signal BL for example as a data signal D to logic for example.

For block of memory having a memory cell that stores a bit value may be accessed wherein the memory cell may lose the bit value in response to the access. The memory cell for one embodiment may not be a target of the access. For one embodiment a plurality of memory cells may be selected for the access and a bit value in some selected memory cells may be sensed and written back.

For block whether the memory cell loses the bit value in response to the access may be detected. For one embodiment an analog signal at a supply node for the memory cell may be sensed to detect whether the memory cell loses the bit value. The sensed analog signal for one embodiment may be compared to a reference. For one embodiment current flowing through the supply node may be sensed. For one embodiment a voltage at the supply node may be sensed.

For block the bit value may be restored in the memory cell in response to detecting that the memory cell loses the bit value. For one embodiment the bit value may be sensed and written back to the memory cell.

Integrated circuit with memory of may be used in any suitable system. Integrated circuit with memory for one embodiment may respectively correspond to an integrated circuit having cache memory for a processor used in a system as illustrated in . Cache memory has circuitry to detect whether a memory cell loses a bit value in response to a memory access operation and to restore a bit value in the memory cell. Integrated circuit for one embodiment may also correspond to an integrated circuit with cache memory separate from processor . System for another embodiment may include multiple processors one or more of which may have an integrated circuit having cache memory having circuitry to detect whether a memory cell loses a bit value in response to a memory access operation and to restore a bit value in the memory cell.

Processor for one embodiment may be coupled to receive power from one or more power supplies . Power supply ies for one embodiment may include one or more energy cells such as a battery and or a fuel cell for example. Power supply ies for one embodiment may include an alternating current to direct current AC DC converter. Power supply ies for one embodiment may include a DC DC converter. Power supply ies for one embodiment may include one or more voltage regulators to help supply power to processor .

System for one embodiment may also include a chipset coupled to processor a basic input output system BIOS memory coupled to chipset volatile memory coupled to chipset non volatile memory and or storage device s coupled to chipset one or more input devices coupled to chipset a display coupled to chipset one or more communications interfaces coupled to chipset and or one or more other input output I O devices coupled to chipset .

Chipset for one embodiment may include any suitable interface controllers to provide for any suitable communications link to processor and or to any suitable device or component in communication with chipset .

Chipset for one embodiment may include a firmware controller to provide an interface to BIOS memory . BIOS memory may be used to store any suitable system and or video BIOS software for system . BIOS memory may include any suitable non volatile memory such as a suitable flash memory for example. BIOS memory for one embodiment may alternatively be included in chipset .

Chipset for one embodiment may include one or more memory controllers to provide an interface to volatile memory . Volatile memory may be used to load and store data and or instructions for example for system . Volatile memory may include any suitable volatile memory such as suitable dynamic random access memory DRAM for example. Processor for one embodiment may use cache memory to store data and or instructions stored or to be stored in volatile memory for example for faster access to such data and or instructions.

Chipset for one embodiment may include a graphics controller to provide an interface to display . Display may include any suitable display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for example. The graphics controller for one embodiment may alternatively be external to chipset .

Chipset for one embodiment may include one or more input output I O controllers to provide an interface to non volatile memory and or storage device s input device s communications interface s and or I O devices .

Non volatile memory and or storage device s may be used to store data and or instructions for example. Non volatile memory and or storage device s may include any suitable non volatile memory such as flash memory for example and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drives HDDs one or more compact disc CD drives and or one or more digital versatile disc DVD drives for example.

Input device s may include any suitable input device s such as a keyboard a mouse and or any other suitable cursor control device.

Communications interface s may provide an interface for system to communicate over one or more networks and or with any other suitable device. Communications interface s may include any suitable hardware and or firmware. Communications interface s for one embodiment may include for example a network adapter a wireless network adapter a telephone modem and or a wireless modem. For wireless communications communications interface s for one embodiment may use one or more antennas .

I O device s may include any suitable I O device s such as for example an audio device to help convert sound into corresponding digital signals and or to help convert digital signals into corresponding sound a camera a camcorder a printer and or a scanner.

Although described as residing in chipset one or more controllers of chipset may be integrated with processor allowing processor to communicate with one or more devices or components directly. As one example one or more memory controllers for one embodiment may be integrated with processor allowing processor to communicate with volatile memory directly.

In the foregoing description example embodiments have been described. Various modifications and changes may be made to such embodiments without departing from the scope of the appended claims. The description and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

