---

title: Systems for development and/or use of telephone user interface
abstract: Some embodiments provide a touch-sensitive device to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias, an element to secure a printed medium in contact with the touch sensitive device, the printed medium to depict a plurality of telephone interface controls, a memory to store a telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action, and a processor to receive touch location information from the touch-sensitive device, to determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on the telephone interface layout, to determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout, and to perform the determined action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510666&OS=08510666&RS=08510666
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH & Co. KG
number: 08510666
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061120
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 782 588 filed on Mar. 14 2006 and entitled Method and Apparatus for a Customizable Telephone Interface and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 850 169 filed on Oct. 5 2006 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Creating Customizable Telephone Interfaces the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Conventional telephones typically receive user input via the ubiquitous numeric keypad. In the most basic arrangement a user requests a telephone connection with a remote party by dialing the remote party s telephone number using the keys of such a keypad. A conventional telephone keypad may include letters associated with each key in order to enable input of alpha characters.

Interactive voice response IVR systems attempt to address the limitations of the conventional keypad in order to provide a more sophisticated exchange between a telephone user and a remote system. In particular IVR systems provide audible menus which a user may navigate by depressing keypad keys. Most users however find IVR systems to be frustrating and inefficient for all but the simplest of tasks.

Modern telephone systems may provide a small display screen in addition to the traditional keypad. The screen may display information typed by a user using the keypad and or other information such as date and time. In some instances the screen may provide labels for soft keys having functions that vary depending on operating context.

Systems are desired for efficiently providing telephone users with a useful interface. Such a system may be customizable and or sufficiently inexpensive to manufacture.

According to various embodiments the invention generally relates to systems to provide user interfaces for telephone systems. More particularly some embodiments are concerned with systems to generate and or support customizable telephone interface layouts.

Some embodiments provide a system method telephone program code and or means to receive a first user indication of a telephone interface control receive a second user indication of a location associated with the telephone interface control receive a third user indication of an action associated with the telephone interface control and generate based on the first user indication the second user indication and the third user indication a telephone interface layout formatted according to a markup language and usable by a telephone to provide a user interface.

In further aspects the telephone interface layout comprises an image depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls and data associating one or more of the plurality of telephone interface controls with a respective location and a respective action. The image may be depicted on a printed medium.

According to some embodiments a system includes a touch sensitive device to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias an element to secure a printed medium in contact with the touch sensitive device the printed medium to depict a plurality of telephone interface controls and a memory to store a telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. Also included may be a processor to receive touch location information from the touch sensitive device to determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on the telephone interface layout to determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout and to perform the determined action.

Some aspects may provide reception of touch location information from a touch sensitive device and determination of a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on a telephone interface layout. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and may associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. An action may be determined based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout and the determined action is performed.

With these and other advantages and features that will become hereinafter apparent further information may be obtained by reference to the following detailed description and appended claims and to the figures attached hereto.

System includes computing system communication link and telephone . Computing system may include any type of computing system or systems that is or becomes known including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet personal computer a personal digital assistant and a cellular telephone. Computing system may operate to generate a telephone interface layout according to some embodiments.

More specifically some embodiments of computing system which are not limited to the structure illustrated in operate to receive a first user indication of a telephone interface control to receive a second user indication of a location associated with the telephone interface control to receive a third user indication of an action associated with the telephone interface control and to generate a telephone interface layout based on the first user indication the second user indication and the third user indication. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and usable by a telephone to provide a user interface.

Computing system of includes processor in communication with communication bus . Processor may comprise any controller or processor capable of executing program code. More specifically processor executes program code to control the elements of computing system to provide desired functionality such as that described above.

Also in communication with communication bus are input device and display . A user may manipulate input device to transmit a user indication to system . Such an indication may indicate one or more of a telephone interface control a location associated with the telephone interface control and an action associated with the telephone interface control. Input device may comprise any known input device including a keyboard mouse touch pad voice recognition system or any combination of these devices.

Display may display graphics and text in response to commands issued by processor . The displayed graphics and text may comprise a user interface of an application for designing telephone interface layouts. In this regard display may display a telephone interface layout to be used by telephone as will be described below. Display may comprise an integral or separate CRT display flat panel display or the like.

Data storage device is also coupled to bus and stores among other data processor executable program code of layout manager application . Processor may execute the program code in order to control computing system to generate a telephone interface layout according to some embodiments. Such a generated telephone interface layout may be stored among telephone interface layouts of storage device .

Computing system according to some embodiments may include fewer or more elements arranged differently than illustrated in . In some embodiments system includes a printer for outputting a printed medium depicting an image of a plurality of telephone interface controls. Computing system may also or alternatively include a communication port for transmitting data to and receiving data from devices external to computer system . Such a communication port may transmit telephone interface layout to telephone over link according to some embodiments.

The program code of layout manager application may be read from a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Zip disk a magnetic tape or a signal encoding the process steps and then stored in data storage device in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with processor executable code for implementation of processes according to some embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

Communication link may comprise any one or more suitable media for transmitting telephone interface layout to telephone . Communication link may support any suitable communication protocol s . In some embodiments link may comprise a USB cable a serial cable a network cable and or a wireless link. In a case that telephone interface layout comprises a printed medium link may comprise the physical means by which the medium is delivered to telephone .

Telephone may operate in some embodiments to receive touch location information from a touch sensitive device and determine a telephone interface control based on the touch location information and on a telephone interface layout. The telephone interface layout may be formatted according to a markup language and may associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. Telephone may determine an action based on the telephone interface control and on the telephone interface layout and may proceed to perform the determined action.

Telephone of includes touch sensitive device . Touch sensitive device may operate according to some embodiments to receive a bias and to generate touch location information based on the bias. Touch sensitive device may comprise any type of suitable device that is currently or hereafter known. Touch sensitive device may comprise a simple touch sensitive panel a touch sensitive panel providing a controllable display on its surface and or a panel capable of providing haptic feedback to a user. In this regard haptic feedback comprises a force delivered by device to a user of telephone . The force may simulate the click of a keypress a buzzing sensation or any other suitable phenomena. As will be described in detail below some embodiments provide customizable haptic feedback based on generated touch location information.

Touch sensitive device may be equipped with an integral display for displaying depictions of a plurality of telephone interface controls. The depictions may comprise elements of a telephone interface layout received from computing system . Accordingly the telephone interface layout comprises an image file that may be displayed by the integral display of touch sensitive device .

Alternatively some embodiments of telephone may include element to secure a printed medium in contact with device . Such a printed medium some embodiments of which will be described below may depict the aforementioned plurality of telephone interface controls. The printed medium may therefore be considered part of a telephone interface layout that is associated with the plurality of telephone interface controls.

Accordingly a user may touch a telephone interface control displayed by the integral display or presented on a printed medium secured by securing element . In response touch sensitive device generates location information associated with a location at which the touch is sensed.

In this regard telephone also includes memory to store program code of a telephone application and at least one telephone interface layout associating one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective touch location. The telephone interface layout may also associate one or more of the telephone interface controls with a respective action.

The following description provides an example of operation of system according to some embodiments. A user may initially exert a bias against one of the telephone interface controls displayed by the integral display or depicted by the printed medium. Device may in response generate touch location information corresponding to a location of the telephone interface control against which the bias is exerted.

Processor of telephone may execute the program code of memory to receive the touch location information from touch sensitive device . Based on a telephone interface layout stored in memory processor may determine a telephone interface control associated with the touch location information. Processor may then determine also based on the telephone interface layout an action associated with the telephone interface control. Lastly processor controls elements of telephone to perform the determined action.

The elements of system may include many unshown elements to provide necessary or optional features. These elements may be embodied by any suitable combinations of hardware software and or firmware and may share some elements therebetween. Computing system and telephone may be located adjacent to or remote from one another and may be elements of a single apparatus. Either or both of computing system and telephone may be embodied by several devices located adjacent to or remote from one another.

Process may comprise process steps embodied in program code. Accordingly prior to process a user may operate computing system to launch an application including such program code. In some embodiments process is initiated by launching layout manager application of storage device .

According to some embodiments display displays user interface of upon launching layout manager application . User interface includes design panel for displaying graphical elements of a telephone interface layout toolbox for selecting widgets for inclusion in a telephone interface layout drop down menu for selecting a telephone model in which the telephone interface layout is intended to be used and options for performing associated tasks.

Initially at step an indication of a telephone interface control is received. The first user indication may comprise user selection of a widget of toolbox . For example the Button widget may represent a selectable button or a rectangle of a telephone interface layout the Label may represent text to include in the telephone interface layout the Handwriting Recognition widget may represent an area in which handwriting may be input and the ImageBox widget may provide an area to include a selectable image.

Next an indication of a location is received at step . The received indication is associated with the telephone interface control indicated at step . Any number of systems for inputting and receiving the location indication may be employed at step . For example the user may drag and drop a selected widget from toolbox to a location of design panel . Step therefore comprises determining the location to which the widget was dropped. The dropped widget may be aligned within design panel using a snap to grid feature.

At step it is determined whether the telephone interface control is to be associated with an action. If so flow proceeds to step at which an indication of an action associated with a telephone interface control is received. The indication of the action may be input and or received in any suitable manner. According to some embodiments of step a user may select a displayed telephone interface control and may then select Properties button of options . In response display may display property sheet of which the user may manipulate to indicate an action associated with the selected telephone interface control.

As shown property sheet allows a user to specify any number of parameters associated with a telephone interface control. Specific to step window provides text boxes and for specifying an action type and an action value respectively. The action type and action value define an action that will be performed upon user selection of the associated telephone interface control. For example an ImageBox telephone interface control may be associated with an action name Dial and an action number 18004278427 . Accordingly a telephone displaying the telephone interface control may dial the number upon user selection of the control.

Property sheet may also be used to input and receive an indication of a touch feedback parameter associated with the subject telephone interface control. Specifically area of window allows a user to associate touch feedback parameters with the telephone interface control defined by property sheet . The touch feedback parameters may define a haptic feedback to be delivered to a user upon selection of the telephone interface control.

As illustrated in some embodiments may allow a user to manipulate any number of relevant parameter values with a telephone interface control. These parameters may include but are not limited to a size a color an image file text and optical character recognition parameters e.g. an IP address and port number of a handwriting recognition server . The types of parameters associated with a telephone interface control may depend on the type of the telephone interface control. For example Text widgets might not be associated with an action and or touch feedback parameters.

Flow returns to step if it is determined at step that a user intends to define additional telephone interface controls. If not an indication of a target telephone model is received at step . Returning to the indication of the target telephone model may be received via drop down box . As will be described below dimensions of the target telephone model may be used to determine dimensions of telephone interface controls of a subsequently generated telephone interface layout.

At step a telephone interface layout formatted according to a markup language is generated. The layout associates all indicated telephone interface controls with their respective indications received at steps and and may be scaled based on the indicated target telephone model. A telephone interface layout according to some embodiments may include data providing the associations mentioned above as well as displayable graphics data and or a printed medium depicting the telephone interface controls.

According to some embodiments step begins in response to user selection of one of the Print Preview Print Layout or Save Layout buttons of options . The images within design panel is measured in pixels and may be scaled to millimeters for both saving the layout in markup language format and for printing a depiction of the layout if needed. For example the selected optiPoint telephone includes a touch pad measuring 112 mm in width 131 mm in height. Assuming a fixed height of 512 pixels the width of the panel is calculated as 112 mm 131 mm 512 pixels 438 pixels.

Next a snapshot of the images within design panel is obtained using a BitBit Bit Block Transfer function. The function creates a bitmap image by moving a rectangular block of bits from the display memory into Random Access Memory of system . A frame e.g. a Graphics object in C is then built to hold the bitmap image. This frame is mapped in millimeters and stretches or shrinks the bitmap image to maintain the proper dimensions.

The code snippet below sets forth one strategy to convert the telephone interface layout from pixels to millimeters. According to the code each specified telephone interface control i.e. widget is stored in an array widgets and is iterated using a for each loop. The location and the dimensions of each widget are calculated by determining the ratio between its width in millimeters and its width in pixels and by multiplying the ratio with the property to be transformed e.g. the location of the widget in the x direction.

The markup language formatted telephone interface layout includes two main parts according to some embodiments. A first part holds general information associated with the target telephone and a second part contains an array of a plurality of telephone interface controls. The following is an example of the above described first part of a layout according to some embodiments.

The second part of markup language formatted telephone interface layout may list each telephone interface control of the layout and may also associate one or more of a location dimensions an action and touch feedback with each control. The following example includes information relating to two telephone interface controls i.e. widgets .

According to some embodiments the location information association with a telephone interface control may represent areas of a touchscreen surrounding the telephone interface control. Therefore user depression of one of these surrounding areas may be considered a selection of the corresponding interface control. Such embodiments may be beneficial for elderly users.

As mentioned above some embodiments of process generate a telephone interface layout including a printed medium depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls and a markup language formatted data file associating each of the plurality of interface controls with a location etc. In some embodiments the data file includes information that may be used by an electronic display to generate an image of the telephone interface controls. Such information may comprise a .jpg image an HTML page or the like. In some embodiments a target telephone may include a rendering engine for reading the above described XML file in order to display the telephone interface controls of the layout.

A telephone interface layout is initially acquired at step . The acquired layout is formatted according to a markup language and associates one or more telephone interface controls with a respective touch location and a respective action. The layout may comprise an XML formatted file such as those described above and may be acquired via any suitable transmission means including but not limited to a wireless link a wired link e.g. a USB cable and a readable medium storing the file.

According to some embodiments a process is executed upon startup to load the acquired telephone interface layout. A user may be asked to select from two or more telephone interface layouts to load. In some embodiments the startup process also displays an image depicting a plurality of telephone interface controls based on the loaded telephone interface layout. Other embodiments which utilize a non imaging touch sensitive device may comprise securing a printed medium depicting such an image to the non imaging touch sensitive device.

If so touch location information is received at step . According to some embodiments converter may receive an analog signal from each of force sensors and and may transmit a digital signal based on the four signals over an SPI bus to driver . Processor may then receive a corresponding coordinate pair upon polling driver .

A telephone interface control is determined at step based on the touch location information and the loaded telephone interface layout. In some embodiments step simply comprises identifying a telephone interface control that is associated with the location at which screen was touched. An action associated with the determined interface control is similarly determined from the telephone interface layout at .

The determined action is performed at step . An action may include but is not limited to dialing individual digits dialing preset telephone numbers i.e. speed dialing and performing handwriting recognition. The action may be performed by using an application programming interface provided by system or by otherwise controlling elements of system to perform the determined action.

A TCP socket is then opened to handwriting recognition server based on information e.g. IP address port number specified by the telephone interface layout. The stream of coordinate pairs is transmitted to server via the socket. Handwriting recognition server processes the received data responds with a recognized character and closes the socket. The recognized character may be displayed on an available simple text display of the phone if available.

Handwriting recognition server may be multi threaded and may therefore serve multiple individual telephones concurrently. Handwriting recognition server may alternatively be implemented on PCB . Handwriting received via a handwriting recognition interface control may also or alternatively be transmitted directly to a called party without recognition processing. Such an embodiment may be used to forward an authorizing signature to the called party.

According to some embodiments such as that illustrated in process also includes providing touch feedback to a user based on touch feedback information of the telephone interface layout. In particular processor may determine such feedback based on the layout and on a telephone interface control determined at . The feedback may be represented by parameters such as cycle time delay cycle count and damping and may be implemented by driving coil to generate a haptic vibration pattern. Coil is representative of any number of coils that may be used to generate haptic feedback through screen . The circuitry of touchscreen used to drive coil may be connected to GPIO pins of PCB .

In some embodiments processor comprises a low cost processor such as the TI MSP bundled into a single assembly with touchscreen . Processor may execute any suitable operating system e.g. the free operating system Tiny OS and compiler. According to some embodiments processor executes code to poll A D converter and process data received therefrom as described above. Signaling circuitry of telephone may be leveraged to transmit the processed data e.g. touch location information to telephony switch .

Processor of telephony switch may perform steps through based on the received data and on a telephone interface layout associated with telephone and stored among XML data . If the received data is associated with touch feedback information processor may transmit commands to generate touch feedback to telephone . As illustrated these commands may be passed on to processor which drives the touchscreen circuitry and coil based thereon. Handwriting recognition may be provided by system as described with respect to system .

System of illustrates operation according to further embodiments. Telephone includes elements e.g. a processor for driving the circuitry and coil of touchscreen to provide touch feedback. However telephone may pass touch location information to switch and switch may operate as described above with respect to switch .

According to some embodiments one or more telephone interface controls of a telephone interface layout may provide input to more than one service. Such a scenario may be particularly beneficial in an embedded environment e.g. a conventional desktop telephone where resources are limited and where it may therefore be necessary for services directory email etc. to be deployed in a distributed manner.

By way of example is a conceptual block diagram showing the currently active directory service providing service to interface controls of telephone . Accordingly user input received by any of virtual wheel 4 way navigation button and handwriting input box is directed to directory process . Module receives the input performs a directory search by querying directory database and formats and outputs the results to display manager via module .

According to some embodiments the framework may allow a user to enter a surname via handwriting input box and to use either virtual wheel or navigation button to scroll through the results. To support the framework telephone may to maintain the notion of an active service to facilitate the transmission of all user inputs to an appropriate remote process corresponding to the active service. Such a notion may be maintained by enumerating services in the markup language formatted telephone interface layout as shown below.

As shown the enumerated services include the IP address and port number for a corresponding remote process. The specification of the telephone interface controls may remain unaffected and behave in the same way as described above.

According to some embodiments using a touchscreen having display capability a user operates a telephone to place a call to a hotel. A hotel phone device transmits a telephone interface layout as described above to the user s telephone. The layout is read by the user s telephone to display a plurality of telephone interface controls and to provide operation based thereon as described above. For example the layout may include controls labeled reception reservations and restaurant each of which may be selected i.e. pressed by the user to place a call to an associated number.

According to some embodiments the hotel phone device may transmit an imagemap which can be displayed by a mobile telephone browser. Selection of one of the displayed telephone interface controls may cause the telephone to invoke a corresponding URL which may consist of a SIP event that generates a digit press.

According to some embodiments 4 way navigation button may operate to detect the force applied thereto by a user. An increase in the force may cause acceleration of a corresponding activity e.g. text scrolling on the screen . The increased force may also be confirmed to the user via increased touch feedback.

Some embodiments may provide layout modification on a telephone. Such embodiments would allow an end user to design and or modify a telephone interface layout using a telephone on which the layout is to be used. For example the user may modify the shape size color and or action associated with a telephone interface control.

According to some embodiments of the foregoing a user may input a name and telephone number of a business acquaintance in order to create a new speed dial button corresponding to the acquaintance. Still other embodiments of the foregoing may allow a desktop telephone to receive an image captured by a camera phone and to integrate the image into a telephone interface layout to be used by the desktop telephone.

Any architecture and or system described herein may include any number of devices and systems for transferring data including but not limited to local area networks wide area networks telephone networks cellular networks fiber optic networks satellite networks infra red networks radio frequency networks and any other type of networks which may be used to transmit information between devices. Additionally data may be transmitted using one or more currently or hereafter known network protocols including but not limited to Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and Wireless Application Protocol WAP .

Embodiments described above are not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein but are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can reasonably be included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

