---

title: System and method of displaying incoming communication alerts at a wireless device
abstract: A method of providing an alert of an incoming communication is disclosed and includes receiving an incoming communication at a wireless device and determining whether the wireless device has access to a photograph that is associated with an identified source of the incoming communication. Further, the method includes displaying the photograph and an alert message that is associated with the incoming communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08175656&OS=08175656&RS=08175656
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08175656
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
The present disclosure generally relates to wireless devices. More particularly the disclosure relates to caller identification at wireless devices.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful wireless devices. For example there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Further many such wireless devices provide significant computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

Typically these smaller and more powerful wireless devices are often resource constrained. For example the screen size the amount of available memory and file system space and the amount of input and output capabilities may be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is can be desirable to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such wireless devices.

Some of these wireless devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device system hardware and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function thus not requiring the developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can provide one or more interfaces to particular hardware and software features found on wireless devices.

Further the BREW platform can be used in an end to end software distribution system to provide a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and wireless device manufacturers and consumers. One such currently available end to end software distribution system called the BREW solution developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated includes logic distributed over a server client architecture wherein the server can perform billing security and application distribution functionality and wherein the client can perform application execution security and user interface functionality.

Many wireless telephones can also be used to take digital pictures. Further one type of software feature included in many wireless telephones is a photograph manager. The photograph manager can be used to manage photographs taken by the wireless telephone or received at the wireless telephone. A caller identification feature is available that displays an image associated with an identified caller when an identified incoming call is received. Unfortunately the display of the image associated with the identified caller is fleeting and oftentimes does not last long enough for the user of the wireless telephone to view the image.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an improved system and method of providing call notification at a wireless device.

A method of providing an alert of an incoming communication is disclosed and includes receiving an incoming communication at a wireless device and determining whether the wireless device has access to a photograph that is associated with an identified source of the incoming communication. Further the method includes displaying the photograph and an alert message that is associated with the incoming communication.

In a particular embodiment a default idle screen background is replaced with the photograph and the alert message. Also in a particular embodiment the alert message is displayed over at least a portion of the photograph. The alert message can indicate that the incoming communication is received. Alternatively the alert message can indicate that the incoming communication has been missed. In a particular embodiment the incoming communication can includes a telephone call a text message an email message a picture message or a video message.

In a particular embodiment the method also includes displaying at least one soft button that is associated with the alert message. The soft button can be displayed over a portion of the photograph. Additionally a portion of the soft button can be substantially transparent. In a particular embodiment the soft button can be a yes soft button a no soft button a send soft button a cancel soft button an exit soft button a call soft button a call home soft button a call cell soft button or a call work soft button.

In yet another particular embodiment the method includes determining whether the alert message is acknowledged. The alert message can be acknowledged by answering the incoming communication. Further the alert message can be acknowledged by viewing the incoming communication. Also the alert message can be acknowledged by viewing information that is associated with a missed incoming communication.

In still another particular embodiment the method includes clearing the alert message after the alert message is acknowledged clearing the at least one soft button and displaying a default idle screen background.

In another embodiment a method of establishing a telephone call is provided and includes receiving a selection of a photograph and replacing a default idle screen background with the photograph at a display of a wireless device. Further the method includes displaying at least one call soft button over the photograph and dialing a telephone number that is associated with the photograph when the at least one call soft button is selected.

In yet another embodiment a method of text messaging is disclosed and includes receiving a selection of a photograph of a person and replacing a default idle screen background with the photograph. Also the method includes displaying a text input window over the photograph and displaying at least one text messaging soft button over the photograph. The method also includes transmitting a text message to a device that is associated with the person within the photograph.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to receive an incoming communications at a wireless device instructions to determine whether the wireless device has access to a photograph that is associated with an identified source of the incoming communication and instructions to display the photograph and an alert message that is associated with the incoming communication.

In yet still another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to receive a selection of a photograph instructions to replace a default idle screen background with the photograph at a display of a wireless device instructions to display at least one call soft button over the photograph and instructions to dial a telephone number that is associated with the photograph when the at least one call soft button is selected.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to receive a selection of a photograph of a person instructions to replace a default idle screen background with the photograph instructions to display a text input window over the photograph instructions to display at least one text messaging soft button over the photograph and instructions to transmit a text message to a device that is associated with the person within the photograph.

In another embodiment a computer program is disclosed. The computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive an incoming communication at a wireless device instructions to determine whether the wireless device has access to a photograph that is associated with an identified source of the incoming communication and instructions to display the photograph and an alert message that is associated with the incoming communication.

In still another embodiment a computer program is disclosed. The computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive a selection of a photograph instructions to replace a default idle screen background with the photograph at a display of a wireless device instructions to display at least one call soft button over the photograph and instructions to dial a telephone number that is associated with the photograph when the at least one call soft button is selected.

In yet another embodiment a computer program is disclosed. The computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive a selection of a photograph of a person instructions to replace a default idle screen background with the photograph instructions to display a text input window over the photograph instructions to display at least one text messaging soft button over the photograph and instructions to transmit a text message to a device that is associated with the person within the photograph.

In another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving an incoming communication at a wireless device means for determining whether the wireless device has access to a photograph that is associated with an identified source of the incoming communication and means for displaying the photograph and an alert message associated with the incoming communication.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving a selection of a photograph means for replacing a default idle screen background with the photograph at a display of a wireless device means for displaying at least one call soft button over the photograph and means for dialing a telephone number that is associated with the photograph when the at least one call soft button is selected.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving a selection of a photograph means for replacing a default idle screen background with the photograph means for displaying a text input window over the photograph means for displaying at least one text messaging soft button over the photograph and means for transmitting a text message to a device that is associated with the photograph when the at least one text messaging soft button is selected.

In another embodiment a method of providing an alert of an incoming communication is disclosed an includes receiving an incoming communication at a wireless device determining whether the wireless device has access to a video associated with an identified source of the incoming communication and displaying the video and an alert message associated with the incoming communication.

An advantage of one or more embodiments disclosed herein can include displaying an alert over a photograph that is associated with an incoming communication.

Another advantage can include replacing a default wallpaper with a photograph that is associated with an alert until the alert is cleared or acknowledged.

Yet another advantage can include establishing communication with a user by selecting a photograph that is associated with the user.

Still another advantage can include replacing a default wallpaper with a video that is associated with an alert until the alert is cleared or acknowledged.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a wireless device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action. The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used in connection with one or more wireless devices.

In one or more embodiments a wireless device may utilize a runtime environment such as a version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers is implemented on a wireless device executing a runtime environment such as the current version of the BREW platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless devices.

As illustrated in the wireless device can be a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a pager or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. In a particular embodiment the pager can be a two way text pager. Further in an alternative embodiment the wireless device can have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The exemplary non limiting system can include any form of a remote module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones with or without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As depicted in the application download server is coupled to a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . The system includes is a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . Further as indicated in the system also includes at least one stored application database that stores software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server the second server and the stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates the system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the system . The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as the wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server are compatible with wireless communication services and can communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In an illustrative embodiment the server contains a server security module that further contains logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the server security module can operate in conjunction with a client security module located on a wireless device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base transceiver stations BTS . The MSC can be connected to the BTS by both a data network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as to wireless telephone by the short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory ROM or RAM EEPROM flash memory or any other memory suitable for computer platforms.

The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the client security module can operate in conjunction with the server security module to provide secure communications. As illustrated in the computer platform can further include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . In an illustrative embodiment the local database is stored within a flash memory cell but it can be stored within any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape or floppy or hard disk.

A wireless device e.g. the wireless telephone can download one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server . Further the wireless device can store the downloaded applications in the local database when not in use and can load stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution by the API when desired by the user. Further communications over the wireless network may be performed in a secure manner at least in part due to the interaction and operation of the client security module and the server security module . As shown in the API can also include a caller identification module and a photograph dialing module . In a particular embodiment the caller identification module and the photograph dialing module can include logic or instructions that can be executed by a processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein.

Referring to a method of alerting a user of a wireless communications device to an incoming communication is shown and commences at block . At block a wireless device receives an incoming communication. In an illustrative embodiment the incoming communication can be a telephone call a text message a picture message a video message etc. At decision step a processor within the wireless device determines whether the source of the incoming communication is identified. If so the method moves to decision step and the processor determines whether a memory coupled to the processor includes a photograph that is associated with the identified source of the incoming communication. If the memory includes a photograph that is associated with the identified source the method proceeds to block and the processor replaces a default idle screen background with the photograph that is associated with the identified source. Alternatively the processor can play a video associated with the identified source at the default idle screen. Also an audible sound associated with an incoming communication can be transmitted to a user e.g. via a speaker. The method then continues to block .

In a particular embodiment a user can store one or more photographs within the memory of the wireless communications device. One or more telephone numbers email addresses and text messaging addresses can also be stored within the memory of the wireless communications device. Further a user can associate a photograph with a telephone number an email address or a text messaging address. Alternatively a user can associate a telephone number an email address or a text messaging address with a photograph. As such when a source of an incoming communication is identified the wireless device can search the memory therein with the identified source e.g. a telephone number an email address or a text messaging address in order to determine if a photograph is associated with the identified source.

Returning to decision step if the processor cannot identify the source of an incoming communication the method moves directly to block . Further returning to decision step if the processor cannot locate a photograph that is associated with an identified source of an incoming communication the method also moves directly to block .

At block the processor can display an alert message that is associated with the incoming communication. For example the alert message can indicate that the wireless device is receiving an incoming telephone call an incoming text message an incoming email message an incoming picture message or an incoming video message.

Additionally the alert message can indicate that the wireless device has missed a telephone call a text message a picture message or a video message. Also the alert message can indicate that the user has a voice mail. In a particular embodiment the alert message can be displayed over a portion of the photograph that is associated with the identified source of the incoming communication. Conversely the alert message can be displayed over the default idle screen background e.g. if the processor cannot identify the source of an incoming communication or if the processor can not locate a photograph that is associated with an identified source of an incoming communication.

Proceeding to block the processor displays one or more soft buttons that are associated with an alert message. The one or more soft buttons can include a yes soft button a no soft button a clear soft button an exit soft button and other similar soft buttons. In an illustrative embodiment the alert message and the one or more soft buttons are substantially see through in order to minimize the portion of the photograph that is obscured by the alert and the one or more soft buttons displayed thereon. At decision step the processor determines whether the alert is acknowledged.

In a particular embodiment the alert can be acknowledged by a user ending a communication session that results from the user answering the incoming communication.

Also the alert can be acknowledged by a user selecting a cancel soft button or an exit soft button. The alert can be acknowledged by a user pressing an end button a clear button or an okay button at a keypad of the wireless device. Further the alert can be acknowledged by the user viewing information that is associated with a missed communication e.g. a time or date stamp. If the alert is not acknowledged the method proceeds to block and the processor continues displaying the alert message and the associated soft buttons. On the other hand if the alert is acknowledged the method moves to block and the processor clears the alert message and the associated soft buttons. At block the processor displays the default idle screen background. The method then ends at state .

Moving to decision step the processor determines whether a photograph is selected. In a particular embodiment a user can select a photograph by pressing an okay button at the keypad of the wireless device. If a photograph is not selected the method ends at state . On the other hand if a photograph is selected the method continues to block and the processor replaces a default idle screen background with the selected photograph. At decision the processor determines whether multiple telephone numbers are associated with selected photograph. If so the method moves to block and the processor displays a call soft button that is associated with each telephone number. Thereafter the method proceeds to decision step .

Returning to decision step if there is a single telephone number associated with a selected photograph the method moves to block and the processor displays a single call soft button that is associated with the single telephone number. The method then moves to decision step .

At decision step the processor determines whether a call soft button is selected. If not the method ends at state . Conversely if a call soft button is selected the method continues to block and the processor dials the telephone number associated with the selected call soft button associated with the selected photograph. Proceeding to decision step the processor determines whether the call is answered. If the call is not answered the method moves to block and the processor reverts back to the default idle screen background. Then the method ends at state .

Returning to decision step if the call is answered the method continues to block and the processor continues displaying the selected photo. At decision step the processor determines whether the call is ended. If not the method returns to block and the processor continues displaying the selected photo. If the call is ended the method moves to block and the processor reverts back to displaying the default idle screen background. The method then ends at state .

Referring to an alternative method of establishing communication with another device is shown. Commencing at block when a photograph menu is selected at a wireless device the following steps are performed. At block a processor within the wireless device retrieves a photograph menu e.g. from a memory that is coupled to the processor. At block a user is allowed to page through the photograph menu.

Moving to decision step the processor determines whether a send text message option is selected by a user. If not the method ends at state . On the other hand when the send text message option is selected the method proceeds to block and the processor replaces a default idle screen background with the photograph that is displayed when the send text message option is selected. At block the processor displays a text input window over a portion of the photograph. At block the processor also displays one or more text messaging soft buttons over a portion of the photograph.

Proceeding to decision step the processor determines whether text input from the user has been received. If no text input is received the method moves to decision step and the processor determines whether an exit soft button is selected. If the exit soft button is not selected the method returns to block and continues as described. Conversely if the exit soft button is selected the method moves to block and the processor clears the soft buttons displayed at the wireless device. At block the processor clears one or more messages displayed at the wireless device. Moving to block the processor displays the default idle screen background. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step when text input is received from the user the method continues to decision step and the processor determines whether a send soft button is selected by the user. If the send soft button is not selected the method returns to decision step and continues as described. When the send soft button is selected the method moves to block and the processor transmits a text message to a user associated with the selected photograph. At decision step the processor determines whether a response is received. If a response is not received the method returns to decision step and continues as described. On the other hand if a response is received the method moves to block and the processor displays the response over the selected photograph.

Continuing to decision step the processor determines whether messaging has ended. If not the method returns to block and continues as described. Conversely if the messaging is ended the method proceeds to block and the processor clears the soft buttons displayed at the wireless device. At block the processor clears one or more messages displayed at the wireless device. Moving to block the processor displays the default idle screen background. The method ends at state .

As shown the wireless device includes a display and a keypad . Further the wireless device can include a microphone and a speaker . A user can speak into the microphone and listen to incoming audio via the speaker . further illustrates a first exemplary graphical user interface GUI that can be presented to a user via the display of the wireless device . As shown the first GUI can include a default idle screen background i.e. a wallpaper. A signal strength indicator a voicemail indicator and a battery level indicator can be displayed over the default idle screen background . Also a time and date indictor can be displayed over the default idle screen background .

As indicated in the second GUI can include an incoming call alert that is displayed over the photograph . Further the second GUI can include an answer prompt a yes soft button and a no soft button . A user can choose to answer an incoming call by selecting the yes soft button e.g. by manipulating a multi directional button at the keypad . Alternatively the user can choose to answer the incoming call by toggling an okay button or a talk send button at the keypad . Once the user answers the call the photograph can remain at the display until the user ends the call e.g. by toggling an end button at the keypad .

Additionally as shown in the third GUI can include a return call prompt a yes soft button and a no soft button . A user can choose to return a telephone call to the source of the missed telephone call by selecting the yes soft button e.g. by manipulating the multi directional button at the keypad . Alternatively the user can choose to return a telephone call to the source of the missed telephone call by toggling the okay button or the talk send button at the keypad . Additionally the user can press a clear button at the keypad to clear the missed call alert . The photograph can be displayed at the display until the user acknowledges the missed call alert e.g. by returning a call to the source of the missed call or by pressing the clear button .

Referring to a fourth exemplary GUI associated with a photograph dialing feature of the wireless device is illustrated. In a particular embodiment the fourth GUI can be used to establish a telephone call to a telephone number that is associated with a photograph that is stored within a memory of the wireless device . As indicated the fourth GUI can include at least one photograph that is displayed at the wireless device . A previous soft button and a next soft button can be displayed over the photograph . In an illustrative embodiment as shown one photograph is displayed at a time at the wireless device and a user can page through multiple photographs using the previous soft button and the next soft button . In another embodiment multiple photographs may be displayed at the wireless device at the same time e.g. in a thumbnail menu.

As illustrated in the fourth GUI can also include a call soft button and an exit soft button . A user can choose to call a telephone number associated with a photograph displayed at the wireless device by selecting the call soft button . Alternatively the user can choose to call the telephone number associated with the photograph by pressing the talk send button at the keypad . Additionally the user can exit the fourth GUI by selecting the exit soft button or by pressing the end button . In a particular embodiment when the user exits the fourth GUI the first GUI can be presented to the user.

In the event that multiple telephone numbers are associated with a particular photograph when a user selects an option to call the person associated with the photograph a fifth exemplary GUI can be presented to the user at the display of the wireless device . As shown in the fifth GUI can include a call home soft button a call cell soft button and a call work soft button . Each of these soft buttons is displayed over the photograph and can be selected by the user. Further in a particular embodiment the call home soft button can be selected to establish a call to a home telephone number associated with the photograph or a person depicted in or associated with the photograph . Also the call cell soft button can be selected to establish a call to a wireless telephone number associated with the photograph or a person depicted in or associated with the photograph . The call work soft button can be selected to establish a call to a work telephone number that is associated with the photograph or a person depicted in or associated with the photograph .

Referring to a sixth exemplary GUI is depicted. The sixth GUI includes a photograph and an incoming text message alert that is depicted over the photograph of the person associated with the incoming text message. Further the sixth GUI includes a view prompt a yes soft button and a no soft button . A user can choose to view the incoming text message by selecting the yes soft button or by pressing the okay button at the keypad. The photograph remains displayed at the wireless device until the user acknowledges or otherwise clears the incoming text message alert . In a particular embodiment if the user chooses to view the incoming text message the incoming text message alert can be cleared after the user ends the particular text session. Once the incoming text message alert is cleared the wireless device can revert back to the first GUI and display the default idle screen background .

When a user chooses to view an incoming text message a seventh exemplary GUI can be displayed at the wireless device . The seventh GUI can include a text message that is displayed over the photograph and an answer prompt . A user can choose to answer the text message by selecting the yes soft button . Alternatively a user can choose not to answer the text message by selecting the no soft button .

In a particular embodiment if the user chooses to answer the text message an eighth exemplary GUI can be displayed at the wireless device . The eighth GUI can include a text input window a send soft button and an exit soft button that are displayed over the photograph that is associated with the incoming text message. A user can input a text message into the text input window by manipulating one or more of the buttons on the keypad of the wireless device . Further the user can transmit the text message by selecting the send soft button or by pressing the talk send button . Moreover the user can exit the eighth GUI by selecting the exit soft button . In a particular embodiment when the exit soft button is selected the wireless device can revert back to the first GUI shown in .

With the configuration of structure disclosed herein the systems and methods disclosed provide display of an alert and a photograph that are associated with an incoming communication. The system and method can also display a video associated with an incoming communication. Further an audible sound can be assigned to particular alerts and played for a user when incoming communications are received. The audible sounds can be customized for particular alerts.

Additionally the systems and methods provide a way to establish communication with another user via a photograph menu. In a particular embodiment the GUIs described herein can be separate GUIs. Alternatively the GUIs described herein can be part of a single GUI that encompasses all of the features described in conjunction with each of the GUIs. Further in a particular embodiment as indicated in the FIGs. the elements that are displayed over a photograph at the wireless device are substantially see through or substantially clear in order to reduce blocking of the photograph that is displayed at the wireless device.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a wireless device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a wireless device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

