---

title: Cancerous disease modifying antibodies
abstract: The present invention relates to a method for producing patient cancerous disease modifying antibodies using a novel paradigm of screening. By segregating the anti-cancer antibodies using cancer cell cytotoxicity as an end point, the process makes possible the production of anti-cancer antibodies for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. The antibodies can be used in aid of staging and diagnosis of a cancer, and can be used to treat primary tumors and tumor metastases. The anti-cancer antibodies can be conjugated to toxins, enzymes, radioactive compounds, and hematogenous cells.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07456259&OS=07456259&RS=07456259
owner: Arius Research, Inc.
number: 07456259
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20060731
---
This application claims benefit of the filing date of Provisional Application 60 704 685 filed on Aug. 2 2005 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to the isolation and production of cancerous disease modifying antibodies CDMAB and to the use of these CDMAB in therapeutic and diagnostic processes optionally in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents. The invention further relates to binding assays which utilize the CDMAB of the instant invention.

Monoclonal Antibodies as Cancer Therapy Each individual who presents with cancer is unique and has a cancer that is as different from other cancers as that person s identity. Despite this current therapy treats all patients with the same type of cancer at the same stage in the same way. At least 30 percent of these patients will fail the first line therapy thus leading to further rounds of treatment and the increased probability of treatment failure metastases and ultimately death. A superior approach to treatment would be the customization of therapy for the particular individual. The only current therapy which lends itself to customization is surgery. Chemotherapy and radiation treatment cannot be tailored to the patient and surgery by itself in most cases is inadequate for producing cures.

With the advent of monoclonal antibodies the possibility of developing methods for customized therapy became more realistic since each antibody can be directed to a single epitope. Furthermore it is possible to produce a combination of antibodies that are directed to the constellation of epitopes that uniquely define a particular individual s tumor.

Having recognized that a significant difference between cancerous and normal cells is that cancerous cells contain antigens that are specific to transformed cells the scientific community has long held that monoclonal antibodies can be designed to specifically target transformed cells by binding specifically to these cancer antigens thus giving rise to the belief that monoclonal antibodies can serve as Magic Bullets to eliminate cancer cells. However it is now widely recognized that no single monoclonal antibody can serve in all instances of cancer and that monoclonal antibodies can be deployed as a class as targeted cancer treatments. Monoclonal antibodies isolated in accordance with the teachings of the instantly disclosed invention have been shown to modify the cancerous disease process in a manner which is beneficial to the patient for example by reducing the tumor burden and will variously be referred to herein as cancerous disease modifying antibodies CDMAB or anti cancer antibodies.

At the present time the cancer patient usually has few options of treatment. The regimented approach to cancer therapy has produced improvements in global survival and morbidity rates. However to the particular individual these improved statistics do not necessarily correlate with an improvement in their personal situation.

Thus if a methodology was put forth which enabled the practitioner to treat each tumor independently of other patients in the same cohort this would permit the unique approach of tailoring therapy to just that one person. Such a course of therapy would ideally increase the rate of cures and produce better outcomes thereby satisfying a long felt need.

Historically the use of polyclonal antibodies has been used with limited success in the treatment of human cancers. Lymphomas and leukemias have been treated with human plasma but there were few prolonged remissions or responses. Furthermore there was a lack of reproducibility and there was no additional benefit compared to chemotherapy. Solid tumors such as breast cancers melanomas and renal cell carcinomas have also been treated with human blood chimpanzee serum human plasma and horse serum with correspondingly unpredictable and ineffective results.

There have been many clinical trials of monoclonal antibodies for solid tumors. In the 1980s there were at least four clinical trials for human breast cancer which produced only one responder from at least 47 patients using antibodies against specific antigens or based on tissue selectivity. It was not until 1998 that there was a successful clinical trial using a humanized anti Her 2 neu antibody HERCEPTIN in combination with cisplatin. In this trial 37 patients were assessed for responses of which about a quarter had a partial response rate and an additional quarter had minor or stable disease progression. The median time to progression among the responders was 8.4 months with median response duration of 5.3 months.

HERCEPTIN was approved in 1998 for first line use in combination with TAXOL . Clinical study results showed an increase in the median time to disease progression for those who received antibody therapy plus TAXOL 6.9 months in comparison to the group that received TAXOL alone 3.0 months . There was also a slight increase in median survival 22 versus 18 months for the HERCEPTIN plus TAXOL treatment arm versus the TAXOL treatment alone arm. In addition there was an increase in the number of both complete 8 versus 2 percent and partial responders 34 versus 15 percent in the antibody plus TAXOL combination group in comparison to TAXOL alone. However treatment with HERCEPTIN and TAXOL led to a higher incidence of cardiotoxicity in comparison to TAXOL treatment alone 13 versus 1 percent respectively . Also HERCEPTIN therapy was only effective for patients who over express as determined through immunohistochemistry IHC analysis the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 Her2 neu a receptor which currently has no known function or biologically important ligand. Only about 25 percent of patients who have metastatic breast cancer overexpress Her2 neu therefore there is still a large unmet need for patients with breast cancer. Even those who can benefit from HERCEPTIN treatment would still require chemotherapy and consequently would still have to deal with at least to some degree the side effects of this kind of treatment.

The clinical trials investigating colorectal cancer involve antibodies against both glycoprotein and glycolipid targets. Antibodies such as 17 1A which has some specificity for adenocarcinomas has undergone Phase 2 clinical trials in over 60 patients with only 1 patient having a partial response. In other trials use of 17 1A produced only 1 complete response and 2 minor responses among 52 patients in protocols using additional cyclophosphamide. To date Phase III clinical trials of 17 1A have not demonstrated improved efficacy as adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer. The use of a humanized murine monoclonal antibody initially approved for imaging also did not produce tumor regression.

Only recently have there been any positive results from colorectal cancer clinical studies with the use of monoclonal antibodies. In 2004 ERBITUX was approved for the second line treatment of patients with EGFR expressing metastatic colorectal cancer who are refractory to irinotecan based chemotherapy. Results from both a two arm Phase II clinical study and a single arm study showed that ERBITUX in combination with irinotecan had a response rate of 23 and 15 percent respectively with a median time to disease progression of 4.1 and 6.5 months respectively. Results from the same two arm Phase II clinical study and another single arm study showed that treatment with ERBITUX alone resulted in an 11 and 9 percent response rate respectively with a median time to disease progression of 1.5 and 4.2 months respectively.

Consequently in both Switzerland and the United States ERBITUX treatment in combination with irinotecan and in the United States ERBITUX treatment alone has been approved as a second line treatment of colon cancer patients who have failed first line irinotecan therapy. Therefore like HERCEPTIN treatment in Switzerland is only approved as a combination of monoclonal antibody and chemotherapy. In addition treatment in both Switzerland and the U.S. is only approved for patients as a second line therapy. Also in 2004 AVASTIN was approved for use in combination with intravenous 5 fluorouracil based chemotherapy as a first line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. Phase III clinical study results demonstrated a prolongation in the median survival of patients treated with AVASTIN plus 5 fluorouracil compared to patients treated with 5 fluourouracil alone 20 months versus 16 months respectively . However again like HERCEPTIN and ERBITUX treatment is only approved as a combination of monoclonal antibody and chemotherapy.

There also continues to be poor results for lung brain ovarian pancreatic prostate and stomach cancer. The most promising recent results for non small cell lung cancer came from a Phase II clinical trial where treatment involved a monoclonal antibody SGN 15 dox BR96 anti Sialyl LeX conjugated to the cell killing drug doxorubicin in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent TAXOTERE . TAXOTERE is the only FDA approved chemotherapy for the second line treatment of lung cancer. Initial data indicate an improved overall survival compared to TAXOTERE alone. Out of the 62 patients who were recruited for the study two thirds received SGN 15 in combination with TAXOTERE while the remaining one third received TAXOTERE alone. For the patients receiving SGN 15 in combination with TAXOTERE median overall survival was 7.3 months in comparison to 5.9 months for patients receiving TAXOTERE alone. Overall survival at 1 year and 18 months was 29 and 18 percent respectively for patients receiving SNG 15 plus TAXOTERE compared to 24 and 8 percent respectively for patients receiving TAXOTERE alone. Further clinical trials are planned.

Preclinically there has been some limited success in the use of monoclonal antibodies for melanoma. Very few of these antibodies have reached clinical trials and to date none have been approved or demonstrated favorable results in Phase III clinical trials.

The discovery of new drugs to treat disease is hindered by the lack of identification of relevant targets among the products of 30 000 known genes that unambiguously contribute to disease pathogenesis. In oncology research potential drug targets are often selected simply due to the fact that they are over expressed in tumor cells. Targets thus identified are then screened for interaction with a multitude of compounds. In the case of potential antibody therapies these candidate compounds are usually derived from traditional methods of monoclonal antibody generation according to the fundamental principles laid down by Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 Kohler and Milstein . Spleen cells are collected from mice immunized with antigen e.g. whole cells cell fractions purified antigen and fused with immortalized hybridoma partners. The resulting hybridomas are screened and selected for secretion of antibodies which bind most avidly to the target. Many therapeutic and diagnostic antibodies directed against cancer cells including HERCEPTIN and RITUXIMAB have been produced using these methods and selected on the basis of their affinity. The flaws in this strategy are two fold. Firstly the choice of appropriate targets for therapeutic or diagnostic antibody binding is limited by the paucity of knowledge surrounding tissue specific carcinogenic processes and the resulting simplistic methods such as selection by overexpression by which these targets are identified. Secondly the assumption that the drug molecule that binds to the receptor with the greatest affinity usually has the highest probability for initiating or inhibiting a signal may not always be the case.

Despite some progress with the treatment of breast and colon cancer the identification and development of efficacious antibody therapies either as single agents or co treatments has been inadequate for all types of cancer.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 102 discloses a process wherein cells from a patient s tumor are transfected with MHC genes which may be cloned from cells or tissue from the patient. These transfected cells are then used to vaccinate the patient.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 861 581 discloses a process comprising the steps of obtaining monoclonal antibodies that are specific to an internal cellular component of neoplastic and normal cells of the mammal but not to external components labeling the monoclonal antibody contacting the labeled antibody with tissue of a mammal that has received therapy to kill neoplastic cells and determining the effectiveness of therapy by measuring the binding of the labeled antibody to the internal cellular component of the degenerating neoplastic cells. In preparing antibodies directed to human intracellular antigens the patentee recognizes that malignant cells represent a convenient source of such antigens.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 171 665 provides a novel antibody and method for its production. Specifically the patent teaches formation of a monoclonal antibody which has the property of binding strongly to a protein antigen associated with human tumors e.g. those of the colon and lung while binding to normal cells to a much lesser degree.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 484 596 provides a method of cancer therapy comprising surgically removing tumor tissue from a human cancer patient treating the tumor tissue to obtain tumor cells irradiating the tumor cells to be viable but non tumorigenic and using these cells to prepare a vaccine for the patient capable of inhibiting recurrence of the primary tumor while simultaneously inhibiting metastases. The patent teaches the development of monoclonal antibodies which are reactive with surface antigens of tumor cells. As set forth at col. 4 lines 45 et seq. the patentees utilize autochthonous tumor cells in the development of monoclonal antibodies expressing active specific immunotherapy in human neoplasia.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 763 teaches a glycoprotein antigen characteristic of human carcinomas and not dependent upon the epithelial tissue of origin.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 186 is drawn to Anti Her2 antibodies which induce apoptosis in Her2 expressing cells hybridoma cell lines producing the antibodies methods of treating cancer using the antibodies and pharmaceutical compositions including said antibodies.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 849 876 describes new hybridoma cell lines for the production of monoclonal antibodies to mucin antigens purified from tumor and non tumor tissue sources.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 869 268 is drawn to a method for generating a human lymphocyte producing an antibody specific to a desired antigen a method for producing a monoclonal antibody as well as monoclonal antibodies produced by the method. The patent is particularly drawn to the production of an anti HD human monoclonal antibody useful for the diagnosis and treatment of cancers.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 869 045 relates to antibodies antibody fragments antibody conjugates and single chain immunotoxins reactive with human carcinoma cells. The mechanism by which these antibodies function is two fold in that the molecules are reactive with cell membrane antigens present on the surface of human carcinomas and further in that the antibodies have the ability to internalize within the carcinoma cells subsequent to binding making them especially useful for forming antibody drug and antibody toxin conjugates. In their unmodified form the antibodies also manifest cytotoxic properties at specific concentrations.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 033 discloses the use of autoantibodies for tumor therapy and prophylaxis. However this antibody is an antinuclear autoantibody from an aged mammal. In this case the autoantibody is said to be one type of natural antibody found in the immune system. Because the autoantibody comes from an aged mammal there is no requirement that the autoantibody actually comes from the patient being treated. In addition the patent discloses natural and monoclonal antinuclear autoantibody from an aged mammal and a hybridoma cell line producing a monoclonal antinuclear autoantibody.

This application utilizes methodology for producing patient specific anti cancer antibodies taught in the U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 357 patent for isolating hybridoma cell lines which encode for cancerous disease modifying monoclonal antibodies. These antibodies can be made specifically for one tumor and thus make possible the customization of cancer therapy. Within the context of this application anti cancer antibodies having either cell killing cytotoxic or cell growth inhibiting cytostatic properties will hereafter be referred to as cytotoxic. These antibodies can be used in aid of staging and diagnosis of a cancer and can be used to treat tumor metastases. These antibodies can also be used for the prevention of cancer by way of prophylactic treatment. Unlike antibodies generated according to traditional drug discovery paradigms antibodies generated in this way may target molecules and pathways not previously shown to be integral to the growth and or survival of malignant tissue. Furthermore the binding affinities of these antibodies are suited to requirements for initiation of the cytotoxic events that may not be amenable to stronger affinity interactions. Also it is within the purview of this invention to conjugate standard chemotherapeutic modalities e.g. radionuclides with the CDMAB of the instant invention thereby focusing the use of said chemotherapeutics. The CDMAB can also be conjugated to toxins cytotoxic moieties enzymes e.g. biotin conjugated enzymes or hematogenous cells thereby forming an antibody conjugate.

The prospect of individualized anti cancer treatment will bring about a change in the way a patient is managed. A likely clinical scenario is that a tumor sample is obtained at the time of presentation and banked. From this sample the tumor can be typed from a panel of pre existing cancerous disease modifying antibodies. The patient will be conventionally staged but the available antibodies can be of use in further staging the patient. The patient can be treated immediately with the existing antibodies and a panel of antibodies specific to the tumor can be produced either using the methods outlined herein or through the use of phage display libraries in conjunction with the screening methods herein disclosed. All the antibodies generated will be added to the library of anti cancer antibodies since there is a possibility that other tumors can bear some of the same epitopes as the one that is being treated. The antibodies produced according to this method may be useful to treat cancerous disease in any number of patients who have cancers that bind to these antibodies.

In addition to anti cancer antibodies the patient can elect to receive the currently recommended therapies as part of a multi modal regimen of treatment. The fact that the antibodies isolated via the present methodology are relatively non toxic to non cancerous cells allows for combinations of antibodies at high doses to be used either alone or in conjunction with conventional therapy. The high therapeutic index will also permit re treatment on a short time scale that should decrease the likelihood of emergence of treatment resistant cells.

If the patient is refractory to the initial course of therapy or metastases develop the process of generating specific antibodies to the tumor can be repeated for re treatment. Furthermore the anti cancer antibodies can be conjugated to red blood cells obtained from that patient and re infused for treatment of metastases. There have been few effective treatments for metastatic cancer and metastases usually portend a poor outcome resulting in death. However metastatic cancers are usually well vascularized and the delivery of anti cancer antibodies by red blood cells can have the effect of concentrating the antibodies at the site of the tumor. Even prior to metastases most cancer cells are dependent on the host s blood supply for their survival and an anti cancer antibody conjugated to red blood cells can be effective against in situ tumors as well. Alternatively the antibodies may be conjugated to other hematogenous cells e.g. lymphocytes macrophages monocytes natural killer cells etc.

There are five classes of antibodies and each is associated with a function that is conferred by its heavy chain. It is generally thought that cancer cell killing by naked antibodies are mediated either through antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity or complement dependent cytotoxicity. For example murine IgM and IgG2a antibodies can activate human complement by binding the C 1 component of the complement system thereby activating the classical pathway of complement activation which can lead to tumor lysis. For human antibodies the most effective complement activating antibodies are generally IgM and IgG1. Murine antibodies of the IgG2a and IgG3 isotype are effective at recruiting cytotoxic cells that have Fc receptors which will lead to cell killing by monocytes macrophages granulocytes and certain lymphocytes. Human antibodies of both the IgG1 and IgG3 isotype mediate ADCC.

Another possible mechanism of antibody mediated cancer killing may be through the use of antibodies that function to catalyze the hydrolysis of various chemical bonds in the cell membrane and its associated glycoproteins or glycolipids so called catalytic antibodies.

There are three additional mechanisms of antibody mediated cancer cell killing. The first is the use of antibodies as a vaccine to induce the body to produce an immune response against the putative antigen that resides on the cancer cell. The second is the use of antibodies to target growth receptors and interfere with their function or to down regulate that receptor so that its function is effectively lost. The third is the effect of such antibodies on direct ligation of cell surface moieties that may lead to direct cell death such as ligation of death receptors such as TRAIL R1 or TRAIL R2 or integrin molecules such as alpha V beta 3 and the like.

The clinical utility of a cancer drug is based on the benefit of the drug under an acceptable risk profile to the patient. In cancer therapy survival has generally been the most sought after benefit however there are a number of other well recognized benefits in addition to prolonging life. These other benefits where treatment does not adversely affect survival include symptom palliation protection against adverse events prolongation in time to recurrence or disease free survival and prolongation in time to progression. These criteria are generally accepted and regulatory bodies such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration F.D.A. approve drugs that produce these benefits Hirschfeld et al. Critical Reviews in Oncology Hematolgy 42 137 143 2002 . In addition to these criteria it is well recognized that there are other endpoints that may presage these types of benefits. In part the accelerated approval process granted by the U.S. F.D.A. acknowledges that there are surrogates that will likely predict patient benefit. As of year end 2003 there have been sixteen drugs approved under this process and of these four have gone on to full approval i.e. follow up studies have demonstrated direct patient benefit as predicted by surrogate endpoints. One important endpoint for determining drug effects in solid tumors is the assessment of tumor burden by measuring response to treatment Therasse et al. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 92 3 205 216 2000 . The clinical criteria RECIST criteria for such evaluation have been promulgated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Working Group a group of international experts in cancer. Drugs with a demonstrated effect on tumor burden as shown by objective responses according to RECIST criteria in comparison to the appropriate control group tend to ultimately produce direct patient benefit. In the pre clinical setting tumor burden is generally more straightforward to assess and document. In that pre clinical studies can be translated to the clinical setting drugs that produce prolonged survival in pre clinical models have the greatest anticipated clinical utility. Analogous to producing positive responses to clinical treatment drugs that reduce tumor burden in the pre clinical setting may also have significant direct impact on the disease. Although prolongation of survival is the most sought after clinical outcome from cancer drug treatment there are other benefits that have clinical utility and it is clear that tumor burden reduction which may correlate to a delay in disease progression extended survival or both can also lead to direct benefits and have clinical impact Eckhardt et al. Developmental Therapeutics Successes and Failures of Clinical Trial Designs of Targeted Compounds ASCO Educational Book 39Annual Meeting 2003 pages 209 219 .

The present invention describes the development and use of AR62A61.8 identified by its effect in a cytotoxic assay and in an animal model of human cancer. This invention describes reagents that bind specifically to an epitope or epitopes present on the target molecule and that also have in vitro cytotoxic properties as a naked antibody against malignant tumor cells but not normal cells and which also directly mediate as a naked antibody inhibition of tumor growth. A further advance is of the use of anti cancer antibodies such as this to target tumors expressing cognate antigen markers to achieve tumor growth inhibition and other positive endpoints of cancer treatment.

In all this invention teaches the use of the AR62A61.8 antigen as a target for a therapeutic agent that when administered can reduce the tumor burden of a cancer expressing the antigen in a mammal. This invention also teaches the use of CDMAB AR62A61.8 and their derivatives and antigen binding fragments thereof and cellular cytotoxicity inducing ligands thereof to target their antigen to reduce the tumor burden of a cancer expressing the antigen in a mammal. Furthermore this invention also teaches the use of detecting the AR62A61.8 antigen in cancerous cells that can be useful for the diagnosis prediction of therapy and prognosis of mammals bearing tumors that express this antigen.

Accordingly it is an objective of the invention to utilize a method for producing cancerous disease modifying antibodies CDMAB raised against cancerous cells derived from a particular individual or one or more particular cancer cell lines which CDMAB are cytotoxic with respect to cancer cells while simultaneously being relatively non toxic to non cancerous cells in order to isolate hybridoma cell lines and the corresponding isolated monoclonal antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof for which said hybridoma cell lines are encoded.

It is an additional objective of the invention to teach cancerous disease modifying antibodies ligands and antigen binding fragments thereof.

It is a further objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is mediated through antibody dependent cellular toxicity.

It is yet an additional objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is mediated through complement dependent cellular toxicity.

It is still a further objective of the instant invention to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies whose cytotoxicity is a function of their ability to catalyze hydrolysis of cellular chemical bonds.

A still further objective of the instant invention is to produce cancerous disease modifying antibodies which are useful for in a binding assay for diagnosis prognosis and monitoring of cancer.

Other objects and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following description wherein are set forth by way of illustration and example certain embodiments of this invention.

In general the following words or phrases have the indicated definition when used in the summary description examples and claims.

The term antibody is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers for example single monoclonal antibodies including agonist antagonist and neutralizing antibodies de immunized murine chimerized or humanized antibodies antibody compositions with polyepitopic specificity single chain antibodies immunoconjugates and fragments of antibodies see below .

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore in contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations which include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they may be synthesized uncontaminated by other antibodies. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma murine or human method first described by Kohler et al. 256 495 1975 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 for example.

 Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody preferably comprising the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include less than full length antibodies Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules single chain antibodies single domain antibody molecules fusion proteins recombinant proteins and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragment s .

An intact antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain C and heavy chain constant domains C1 C2 and C3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or an amino acid sequence variant thereof. Preferably the intact antibody has one or more effector functions.

Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains intact antibodies can be assigned to different classes . There are five major classes of intact antibodies IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM and several of these may be further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called and respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known.

Antibody effector functions refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include C1q binding complement dependent cytotoxicity Fc receptor binding antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC phagocytosis down regulation of cell surface receptors e.g. B cell receptor BCR etc.

 Antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity and ADCC refer to a cell mediated reaction in which nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc receptors FcRs e.g. Natural Killer NK cells neutrophils and macrophages recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell. The primary cells for mediating ADCC NK cells express Fc RIII only whereas monocytes express Fc RI Fc RII and Fc RIII. FcR expression on hematopoietic cells in summarized is Table 3 on page 464 of Ravetch and Kinet 9 457 92 1991 . To assess ADCC activity of a molecule of interest an in vitro ADCC assay such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 500 362 or 5 821 337 may be performed. Useful effector cells for such assays include peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC and Natural Killer NK cells. Alternatively or additionally ADCC activity of the molecule of interest may be assessed in vivo e.g. in a animal model such as that disclosed in Clynes et al. USA 95 652 656 1998 .

 Effector cells are leukocytes which express one or more FcRs and perform effector functions. Preferably the cells express at least Fc RIII and perform ADCC effector function. Examples of human leukocytes which mediate ADCC include peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC natural killer NK cells monocytes cytotoxic T cells and neutrophils with PBMCs and NK cells being preferred. The effector cells may be isolated from a native source thereof e.g. from blood or PBMCs as described herein.

The terms Fc receptor or FcR are used to describe a receptor that binds to the Fe region of an antibody. The preferred FcR is a native sequence human FcR. Moreover a preferred FcR is one which binds an IgG antibody a gamma receptor and includes receptors of the Fc RI Fc RII and Fc RIII subclasses including allelic variants and alternatively spliced forms of these receptors. Fc RII receptors include Fc RIIA an activating receptor and Fc RIIB an inhibiting receptor which have similar amino acid sequences that differ primarily in the cytoplasmic domains thereof. Activating receptor Fc RIIA contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine based activation motif ITAM in its cytoplasmic domain. Inhibiting receptor Fc RIIB contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibition motif ITIM in its cytoplasmic domain. see review M. in Da ron 15 203 234 1997 . FcRs are reviewed in avetch and Kinet Annu. Rev. Immunol 9 457 92 1991 Capel et al. 4 25 34 1994 and de Haas et al. 126 330 41 1995 . Other FcRs including those to be identified in the future are encompassed by the term FcR herein. The term also includes the neonatal receptor FcRn which is responsible for the transfer of maternal IgGs to the fetus Guyer et al. 117 587 1976 and Kim et al. Eur. 24 2429 1994 .

 Complement dependent cytotoxicity or CDC refers to the ability of a molecule to lyse a target in the presence of complement. The complement activation pathway is initiated by the binding of the first component of the complement system C1q to a molecule e.g. an antibody complexed with a cognate antigen. To assess complement activation a CDC assay e.g. as described in Gazzano Santoro et al. 202 163 1996 may be performed.

The term variable refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and are used in the binding and specificity of each particular antibody for its particular antigen. However the variability is not evenly distributed throughout the variable domains of antibodies. It is concentrated in three segments called hypervariable regions both in the light chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of variable domains are called the framework regions FRs . The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each comprise four FRs largely adopting a sheet configuration connected by three hypervariable regions which form loops connecting and in some cases forming part of the sheet structure. The hypervariable regions in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FRs and with the hypervariable regions from the other chain contribute to the formation of the antigen binding site of antibodies see Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. pp 15 17 48 53 1991 . The constant domains are not involved directly in binding an antibody to an antigen but exhibit various effector functions such as participation of the antibody in antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC .

The term hypervariable region when used herein refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody which are responsible for antigen binding. The hypervariable region generally comprises amino acid residues from a complementarity determining region or CDR e.g. residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 31 35 H1 50 65 H2 and 95 102 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. pp 15 17 48 53 1991 and or those residues from a hypervariable loop e.g. residues 2632 L1 50 52 L2 and 91 96 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 26 32 H1 53 55 H2 and 96 101 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Chothia and Lesk 196 901 917 1987 . Framework Region or FR residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined. Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen binding fragments called Fab fragments each with a single antigen binding site and a residual Fc fragment whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment yields an F ab fragment that has two antigen binding sites and is still capable of cross linking antigen.

 Fv is the minimum antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen recognition and antigen binding site. This region consists of a dimer of one heavy chain and one light chain variable domain in tight non covalent association. It is in this configuration that the three hypervariable regions of each variable domain interact to define an antigen binding site on the surface of the V Vdimer. Collectively the six hypervariable regions confer antigen binding specificity to the antibody. However even a single variable domain or half of an Fv comprising only three hypervariable regions specific for an antigen has the ability to recognize and bind antigen although at a lower affinity than the entire binding site. The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first constant domain CH I of the heavy chain. Fab fragments differ from Fab fragments by the addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH1 domain including one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab SH is the designation herein for Fab in which the cysteine residue s of the constant domains bear at least one free thiol group. F ab antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab fragments which have hinge cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.

The light chains of antibodies from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types called kappa and lambda based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains.

 Single chain Fv or scFv antibody fragments comprise the Vand Vdomains of antibody wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Preferably the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the Vand Vdomains which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv see Pl ckthun in vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 1994 .

The term diabodies refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen binding sites which fragments comprise a variable heavy domain V connected to a variable light domain V in the same polypeptide chain V V . By using a linker that is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain the domains are forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen binding sites. Diabodies are described more fully in for example EP 404 097 WO 93 11161 and Hollinger et al. 90 6444 6448 1993 .

An isolated antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody and may include enzymes hormones and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.

An antibody which binds an antigen of interest is one capable of binding that antigen with sufficient affinity such that the antibody is useful as a therapeutic or diagnostic agent in targeting a cell expressing the antigen. Where the antibody is one which binds the antigenic moiety it will usually preferentially bind that antigenic moiety as opposed to other receptors and does not include incidental binding such as non specific Fc contact or binding to post translational modifications common to other antigens and may be one which does not significantly cross react with other proteins. Methods for the detection of an antibody that binds an antigen of interest are well known in the art and can include but are not limited to assays such as FACS cell ELISA and Western blot.

As used herein the expressions cell cell line and cell culture are used interchangeably and all such designations include progeny. It is also understood that all progeny may not be precisely identical in DNA content due to deliberate or inadvertent mutations. Mutant progeny that have the same function or biological activity as screened for in the originally transformed cell are included. It will be clear from the context where distinct designations are intended.

 Treatment refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen the targeted pathologic condition or disorder. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those prone to have the disorder or those in whom the disorder is to be prevented. Hence the mammal to be treated herein may have been diagnosed as having the disorder or may be predisposed or susceptible to the disorder.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth or death. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphaoramide and trimethylolomelamine nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine ranimustine antibiotics such as aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin calicheamicin carabicin carnomycin carzinophilin chromomycins dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine doxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine 5 FU androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidamine mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidamol nitracrine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK razoxane sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxanes e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. and docetaxel TAXOTERE Aventis Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitomycin C mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine navelbine novantrone teniposide daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoic acid esperamicins capecitabine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above. Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens including for example tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and toremifene FARESTON and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

 Mammal for purposes of treatment refers to any animal classified as a mammal including humans mice SCID or nude mice or strains of mice domestic and farm animals and zoo sports or pet animals such as sheep dogs horses cats cows etc. Preferably the mammal herein is human.

 Oligonucleotides are short length single or double stranded polydeoxynucleotides that are chemically synthesized by known methods such as phosphotriester phosphite or phosphoramidite chemistry using solid phase techniques such as described in EP 266 032 published 4 May 1988 or via deoxynucleoside H phosphonate intermediates as described by Froehler et al. 14 5399 5407 1986. They are then purified on polyacrylamide gels.

 Chimeric antibodies are immunoglobulins in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al 81 6851 6855 1984 .

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are specific chimeric immunoglobulins immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof such as Fv Fab Fab F ab or other antigen binding subsequences of antibodies which contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from the complementarity determining regions CDRs of the recipient antibody are replaced by residues from the CDRs of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat or rabbit having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances Fv framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human FR residues. Furthermore the humanized antibody may comprise residues which are found neither in the recipient antibody nor in the imported CDR or FR sequences. These modifications are made to further refine and optimize antibody performance. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FR residues are those of a human immunoglobulin consensus sequence. The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin.

 De immunized antibodies are immunoglobulins that are non immunogenic or less immunogenic to a given species. De immunization can be achieved through structural alterations to the antibody. Any de immunization technique known to those skilled in the art can be employed. One suitable technique for de immunizing antibodies is described for example in WO 00 34317 published Jun. 15 2000.

An antibody which induces apoptosis is one which induces programmed cell death by any means illustrated by but not limited to binding of annexin V caspase activity fragmentation of DNA cell shrinkage dilation of endoplasmic reticulum cell fragmentation and or formation of membrane vesicles called apoptotic bodies .

Throughout the instant specification hybridoma cell lines as well as the isolated monoclonal antibodies which are produced therefrom are alternatively referred to by their internal designation AR62A61.8 or Depository Designation IDAC 170505 04.

As used herein antibody ligand includes a moiety which exhibits binding specificity for at least one epitope of the target antigen and which may be an intact antibody molecule antibody fragments and any molecule having at least an antigen binding region or portion thereof i.e. the variable portion of an antibody molecule e.g. an Fv molecule Fab molecule Fab molecule F ab .sub.2 molecule a bispecific antibody a fusion protein or any genetically engineered molecule which specifically recognizes and binds at least one epitope of the antigen bound by the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line designated as IDAC 170505 04 the IDAC 170505 04 antigen .

As used herein cancerous disease modifying antibodies CDMAB refers to monoclonal antibodies which modify the cancerous disease process in a manner which is beneficial to the patient for example by reducing tumor burden or prolonging survival of tumor bearing individuals and antibody ligands thereof.

As used herein antigen binding region means a portion of the molecule which recognizes the target antigen.

As used herein competitively inhibits means being able to recognize and bind a determinant site to which the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line designated as IDAC 170505 04 the IDAC 170505 04 antibody is directed using conventional reciprocal antibody competition assays. Belanger L. Sylvestre C. and Dufour D. 1973 Enzyme linked immunoassay for alpha fetoprotein by competitive and sandwich procedures. Clinica Chimica Acta 48 15 .

As used herein an immunoconjugate means any molecule or CDMAB such as an antibody chemically or biologically linked to a cytotoxin a radioactive agent enzyme toxin an anti tumor drug or a therapeutic agent. The antibody or CDMAB may be linked to the cytotoxin radioactive agent anti tumor drug or therapeutic agent at any location along the molecule so long as it is able to bind its target. Examples of immunoconjugates include antibody toxin chemical conjugates and antibody toxin fusion proteins.

As used herein a fusion protein means any chimeric protein wherein an antigen binding region is connected to a biologically active molecule e.g. toxin enzyme or protein drug.

In order that the invention herein described may be more fully understood the following description is set forth.

The present invention provides CDMABs i.e. IDAC 170505 04 CDMAB which specifically recognize and bind the IDAC 170505 04 antigen.

The CDMAB of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma deposited with the IDAC as accession number 170505 04 may be in any form as long as it has an antigen binding region which competitively inhibits the immunospecific binding of the isolated monoclonal antibody produced by hybridoma IDAC 170505 04 to its target antigen. Thus any recombinant proteins e.g. fusion proteins wherein the antibody is combined with a second protein such as a lymphokine or a tumor inhibitory growth factor having the same binding specificity as the IDAC 170505 04 antibody fall within the scope of this invention.

In other embodiments the CDMAB is an antigen binding fragment which may be a Fv molecule such as a single chain Fv molecule a Fab molecule a Fab molecule a F ab 2 molecule a fusion protein a bispecific antibody a heteroantibody or any recombinant molecule having the antigen binding region of the IDAC 170505 04 antibody. The CDMAB of the invention is directed to the epitope to which the IDAC 170505 04 monoclonal antibody is directed.

The CDMAB of the invention may be modified i.e. by amino acid modifications within the molecule so as to produce derivative molecules. Chemical modification may also be possible.

Derivative molecules would retain the functional property of the polypeptide namely the molecule having such substitutions will still permit the binding of the polypeptide to the IDAC 170505 04 antigen or portions thereof.

These amino acid substitutions include but are not necessarily limited to amino acid substitutions known in the art as conservative .

For example it is a well established principle of protein chemistry that certain amino acid substitutions entitled conservative amino acid substitutions can frequently be made in a protein without altering either the conformation or the function of the protein.

Such changes include substituting any of isoleucine I valine V and leucine L for any other of these hydrophobic amino acids aspartic acid D for glutamic acid E and vice versa glutamine Q for asparagine N and vice versa and serine S for threonine T and vice versa. Other substitutions can also be considered conservative depending on the environment of the particular amino acid and its role in the three dimensional structure of the protein. For example glycine G and alanine A can frequently be interchangeable as can alanine and valine V . Methionine M which is relatively hydrophobic can frequently be interchanged with leucine and isoleucine and sometimes with valine. Lysine K and arginine R are frequently interchangeable in locations in which the significant feature of the amino acid residue is its charge and the differing pK s of these two amino acid residues are not significant. Still other changes can be considered conservative in particular environments.

Given an antibody an individual ordinarily skilled in the art can generate a competitively inhibiting CDMAB for example a competing antibody which is one that recognizes the same epitope Belanger L et al. 48 15 18 1973 . One method entails immunizing with an immunogen that expresses the antigen recognized by the antibody. The sample may include but is not limited to tissues isolated protein s or cell line s . Resulting hybridomas could be screened using a competition assay which is one that identifies antibodies that inhibit the binding of the test antibody such as ELISA FACS or Western blotting. Another method could make use of phage display antibody libraries and panning for antibodies that recognize at least one epitope of said antigen Rubinstein J L et al. 314 294 300 2003 . In either case antibodies are selected based on their ability to out compete the binding of the original labeled antibody to at least one epitope of its target antigen. Such antibodies would therefore possess the characteristic of recognizing at least one epitope of the antigen as the original antibody.

The hybridoma cell line AR62A61.8 was deposited in accordance with the Budapest Treaty with the International Depository Authority of Canada IDAC Bureau of Microbiology Health Canada 1015 Arlington Street Winnipeg Manitoba Canada R3E 3R2 on May 17 2005 under Accession Number 170505 04. In accordance with 37 CFR 1.808 the depositors assure that all restrictions imposed on the availability to the public of the deposited materials will be irrevocably removed upon the granting of a patent. The deposit will be replaced if the depository cannot dispense viable samples.

To produce the hybridoma that produces the anti cancer antibody AR62A61.8 a single cell suspension of frozen human prostate tumor tissue Genomics Collaborative Cambridge Mass. was prepared in PBS. IMMUNEASY Qiagen Venlo Netherlands adjuvant was prepared for use by gentle mixing. Five to seven week old BALB c mice were immunized by injecting subcutaneously 2 million cells in 50 microliters of the antigen adjuvant. Recently prepared antigen adjuvant was used to boost the immunized mice intraperitoneally 2 and 5 weeks after the initial immunization with 2 million cells in 50 microliters. A spleen was used for fusion three days after the last immunization. The hybridomas were prepared by fusing the isolated splenocytes with NSO 1 myeloma partners. The supernatants from the fusions were tested from subclones of the hybridomas.

To determine whether the antibodies secreted by the hybridoma cells are of the IgG or IgM isotype an ELISA assay was employed. 100 microliters well of goat anti mouse IgG IgM H L at a concentration of 2.4 micrograms mL in coating buffer 0.1 M carbonate bicarbonate buffer pH 9.2 9.6 at 4 C. was added to the ELISA plates overnight. The plates were washed thrice in washing buffer PBS 0.05 percent Tween . 100 microliters well blocking buffer 5 percent milk in wash buffer was added to the plate for 1 hour at room temperature and then washed thrice in washing buffer. 100 microliters well of hybridoma supernatant was added and the plate incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed thrice with washing buffer and 1 100 000 dilution of either goat anti mouse IgG or IgM horseradish peroxidase conjugate diluted in PBS containing 5 percent milk 100 microliters well was added. After incubating the plate for 1 hour at room temperature the plate was washed thrice with washing buffer. 100 microliters well of TMB solution was incubated for 1 3 minutes at room temperature. The color reaction was terminated by adding 50 microliters well 2M HSOand the plate was read at 450 nm with a Perkin Elmer HTS7000 plate reader. As indicated in the AR62A61.8 hybridoma secreted primarily antibodies of the IgG isotype.

To determine the subclass of antibody secreted by the hybridoma cells an isotyping experiment was performed using a Mouse Monoclonal Antibody Isotyping Kit HyCult Biotechnology Frontstraat Netherlands . 500 microliters of buffer solution was added to the test strip containing rat anti mouse subclass specific antibodies. 500 microliters of hybridoma supernatant was added to the test tube and submerged by gentle agitation. Captured mouse immunoglobulins were detected directly by a second rat monoclonal antibody which is coupled to colloid particles. The combination of these two proteins creates a visual signal used to analyse the isotype. The anti cancer antibody AR62A61.8 is of the IgG1 isotype.

After one round of limiting dilution hybridoma supernatants were tested for antibodies that bound to target cells in a cell ELISA assay. One human breast cancer cell line 1 human ovarian cancer cell line 2 human colon cancer cell lines and 1 human normal skin cell line were tested MDA MB 231 OVCAR 3 SW1116 Lovo and CCD 27sk respectively. All cell lines were obtained from the American Type Tissue Collection ATCC Manassas Va. . The plated cells were fixed prior to use. The plates were washed thrice with PBS containing MgCland CaClat room temperature. 100 microliters of 2 percent paraformaldehyde diluted in PBS was added to each well for 10 minutes at room temperature and then discarded. The plates were again washed with PBS containing MgCland CaClthree times at room temperature. Blocking was done with 100 microliters well of 5 percent milk in wash buffer PBS 0.05 percent Tween for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed thrice with wash buffer and the hybridoma supernatant was added at 75 microliters well for 1 hour at room temperature. The plates were washed 3 times with wash buffer and 100 microliters well of 1 25 dilution of goat anti mouse IgG or IgM antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase diluted in PBS containing 5 percent milk was added. After 1 hour incubation at room temperature the plates were washed 3 times with wash buffer and 100 microliter well of TMB substrate was incubated for 1 3 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was terminated with 50 microliters well 2M HSOand the plate read at 450 nm with a Perkin Elmer HTS7000 plate reader. The results as tabulated in were expressed as the number of folds above background compared to an in house IgG isotype control that has previously been shown not to bind to the cell lines tested. The antibodies from the hybridoma AR62A61.8 showed substantial binding to the breast cancer cell line MDA MB 231 followed by the ovarian cancer cell line OVCAR 3 and the colon cancer cell lines Lovo and SW1116. AR62A61.8 displayed a low level of binding to the normal skin cell line CCD 27sk.

In conjunction with testing for antibody binding the cytotoxic effect of the hybridoma supernatants was tested in the cell lines MDA MB 231 OVCAR 3 SW1116 Lovo and CCD 27sk. Calcein AM was obtained from Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and the assay was performed as outlined below. Cells were plated before the assay at the predetermined appropriate density. After 2 days 75 microliters of supernatant from the hybridoma microtitre plates were transferred to the cell plates and incubated in a 5 percent COincubator for 5 days. The wells that served as the positive controls were aspirated until empty and 100 microliters of sodium azide sodium azide NaN 0.01 percent Sigma Oakville ON cycloheximide CHX 0.5 micromolar Sigma Oakville ON or anti EGFR antibody c225 IgG1 kappa 5 micrograms mL Cedarlane Homby ON was added. After 5 days of treatment the plates were then emptied by inverting and blotting dry. Room temperature DPBS Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline containing MgCland CaClwas dispensed into each well from a multichannel squeeze bottle tapped 3 times emptied by inversion and then blotted dry. 50 microliters of the fluorescent calcein dye diluted in DPBS containing MgCland CaClwas added to each well and incubated at 37 C. in a 5 percent COincubator for 30 minutes. The plates were read in a Perkin Elmer HTS7000 fluorescence plate reader and the data was analyzed in Microsoft Excel. The results are tabulated in . Supernatant from the AR62A61.8 hybridoma produced specific cytotoxicity of 22 percent on the OVCAR 3 cells and 15 percent on the Lovo cells. This was 37 and 61 percent of the cytotoxicity obtained with the positive controls sodium azide and cycloheximide respectively for OVCAR 3 and likewise 31 and 17 percent for the Lovo cells. There was no observable cytotoxicity to the normal skin cell line CCD 27sk. The known non specific cytotoxic agents cycloheximide and NaNgenerally produced cytotoxicity as expected. The anti EGFR antibody c225 produced cytotoxicity as expected on SW1116.

Results from demonstrated that the cytotoxic effects of AR62A61.8 on the different cell lines did not necessarily correlate to the level of binding. Although the breast cancer cell line MDA MB 231 exhibited the highest degree of binding there was no cytotoxicity directed at this cell line. There was a greater level of cytotoxicity produced in the OVCAR 3 cells as compared to the Lovo cells which corresponded to a slightly higher level of binding in the OVCAR 3 ovarian cancer cell line. The antibody therefore exhibited functional specificity which was not necessarily related to the degree of binding.

AR62A61.8 monoclonal antibody was produced by culturing the hybridoma in CL 1000 flasks BD Biosciences Oakville ON with collections and reseeding occurring twice week. Standard antibody purification procedures with Protein G Sepharose 4 Fast Flow Amersham Biosciences Baie d Urf QC were followed. It is within the scope of this invention to utilize monoclonal antibodies that are humanized de immunized chimerized or murine.

Binding of AR62A61.8 to breast MDA MB 231 colon DLD 1 Lovo SW1116 and ovarian OVCAR 3 cancer and non cancer cell lines from skin CCD 27sk and lung Hs888.Lu was assessed by flow cytometry FACS . All cell lines were obtained from the American Type Tissue Collection ATCC Manassas Va. . Cells were prepared for FACS by initially washing the cell monolayer with DPBS without Ca and Mg . Cell dissociation buffer INVITROGEN Burlington ON was then used to dislodge the cells from their cell culture plates at 37 C. After centrifugation and collection the cells were resuspended in DPBS containing MgCl CaCland 2 percent fetal bovine serum at 4 C. staining media and counted aliquoted to appropriate cell density spun down to pellet the cells and resuspended in staining media at 4 C. in the presence of test antibodies AR62A61.8 or control antibodies isotype control anti EGFR at 20 micrograms mL on ice for 30 minutes. Prior to the addition of Alexa Fluor 546 conjugated secondary antibody the cells were washed once with staining media. The Alexa Fluor 546 conjugated antibody in staining media was then added for 30 minutes at 4 C. The cells were then washed for the final time and resuspended in fixing media staining media containing 1.5 percent paraformaldehyde . Flow cytometric acquisition of the cells was assessed by running samples on a FACSarray using the FACSarray System Software BD Biosciences Oakville ON . The forward FSC and side scatter SSC of the cells were set by adjusting the voltage and amplitude gains on the FSC and SSC detectors. The detectors for the fluorescence Alexa 546 channel was adjusted by running unstained cells such that cells had a uniform peak with a median fluorescent intensity of approximately 1 5 units. For each sample approximately 10 000 gated events stained fixed cells were acquired for analysis and the results are presented in .

Examples 1 and 2 demonstrated that AR62A61.8 had anti cancer properties against colon and ovarian cancer cell lines and demonstrated binding to colon cell types. With reference to 4 to 6 week old female SCID mice were implanted with 1 million human colon cancer cells Lovo in 100 microlitres saline injected subcutaneously in the scruff of the neck. The mice were randomly divided into 2 treatment groups of 5. On the day after implantation 20 mg kg of AR62A61.8 test antibody or buffer control was administered intraperitoneally to each cohort in a volume of 300 microlitres after dilution from the stock concentration with a diluent that contained 2.7 mM KCl 1 mM KHPO 137 mM NaCl and 20 mM NaHPO. The antibody and control samples were then administered once per week for a period of 7 weeks in the same fashion. Tumor growth was measured about every seventh day with calipers for up to 8 weeks or until individual animals reached Canadian Council for Animal Care CCAC endpoints. Body weights of the animals were recorded once per week for the duration of the study. At the end of the study all animals were euthanized according to CCAC guidelines.

AR62A61.8 reduced the tumor burden in an in vivo prophylactic model of human colon cancer. On day 56 post implantation 6 days after the last treatment dose the mean tumor volume in the AR62A61.8 treated group was 22 percent less than that of the buffer control treated group . Average tumor volumes at the final timepoint were influenced by the loss of mice due to ulcerated lesions before the termination of the treatment period. At Day 42 when all mice were still alive AR62A61.8 caused a 44 percent decrease in tumor volume compared to buffer treated control mice p 0.171 .

There were no clinical signs of toxicity throughout the study. Body weight shown in was used as a surrogate for well being and failure to thrive. Within groups there was a nonsignificant 9 percent decrease in body weight in the control group over the duration of the study while the body weight of the AR62A61.8 treated group showed an 11 percent decrease from a mean of 20 g to 17.8 g. There was no significant difference in body weight between the groups at the end of the treatment period p 0.13 t test . In summary AR62A61.8 was well tolerated and decreased the tumor burden in this human colon cancer xenograft model. From Example 2 it is evident that the binding of AR62A61.8 to the Lovo cell line is not detectable using FACS. Nevertheless the antibody was able to reduce the tumor growth in a Lovo xenograft model. The efficacy may be due to either of 2 factors. It is possible that the Lovo cell line expresses the antigen target at a level below the threshold of detection by FACS under these conditions but that the low level of expression is sufficient to trigger an event leading to delayed tumor growth. It is also possible that antigen expression is induced when the Lovo cells are placed into the more physiological in vivo environment. In either case the efficacy of this antibody in a Lovo colon cancer model is a non obvious finding that could not have been predicted on the basis of binding.

Results from Example 3 were extended to a different model of human colon cancer. With reference to 4 to 6 week old female SCID mice were implanted with 5 million human colon cancer cells DLD 1 in 100 microlitres saline injected subcutaneously in the scruff of the neck. The mice were randomly divided into 2 treatment groups of 5. On the day after implantation 20 mg kg of AR62A61.8 test antibody or buffer control was administered intraperitoneally to each cohort in a volume of 300 microlitres after dilution from the stock concentration with a diluent that contained 2.7 mM KCl 1 mM KHPO 137 mM NaCl and 20 mM NaHPO. The antibody and control samples were then administered once per week for the duration of the study in the same fashion. Tumor growth was measured about every seventh day with calipers. The study was completed after 7 injections 48 days as the animals reached CCAC end points due to large ulcerated lesions. Body weights of the animals were recorded once per week for the duration of the study. At the end of the study all animals were euthanized according to CCAC guidelines.

AR62A61.8 reduced tumor growth in the highly aggressive DLD 1 in vivo prophylactic model of human colon cancer. On day 41 days post implantation at around the time of the last treatment dose the mean tumor volume in the AR62A61.8 treated group was 37 percent lower than the tumor volume in the buffer control treated group . Although the tumor burden of AR62A61.8 treated mice was lower than that of control treated mice the difference was non significant in this aggressive model of human colon cancer. Average tumor volumes at the final timepoint were influenced by the loss of mice due to ulcerated lesions before the termination of the treatment period. At Day 27 when all mice were still alive AR62A61.8 caused a 28 percent decrease in tumor volume p 0.13 . This decrease was observed after only 4 injections of the antibody. These in vivo results in conjunction with the results presented in Example 2 demonstrate that AR62A61.8 is able to bind strongly to the DLD 1 cell line as well as induce cytotoxicity in another colon model.

There were no clinical signs of toxicity throughout the study. Body weight measured at weekly intervals was a surrogate for well being and failure to thrive. As seen in there were no significant differences in the body weights of the control or 62A335.9 treated groups over the course of the study. There was also no difference in body weight between the two groups at the end of the treatment period p 0.921 t test .

Therefore AR62A61.8 was well tolerated and decreased the tumor burden in this human colon cancer xenograft model.

The preponderance of evidence shows that AR62A61.8 mediates anti cancer effects through ligation of an epitope present on cancer cell lines. Further it could be shown that the AR62A61.8 antibody could be used in detection of cells and or tissues which express the epitope which specifically binds thereto utilizing techniques illustrated by but not limited to FACS cell ELISA or IHC.

All patents and publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

It is to be understood that while a certain form of the invention is illustrated it is not to be limited to the specific form or arrangement of parts herein described and shown. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention and the invention is not to be considered limited to what is shown and described in the specification. One skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent therein. Any oligonucleotides peptides polypeptides biologically related compounds methods procedures and techniques described herein are presently representative of the preferred embodiments are intended to be exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention and are defined by the scope of the appended claims. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention which are obvious to those skilled in the art are intended to be within the scope of the following claims.

