---

title: Method and system supporting audited reporting of advertising impressions from video games
abstract: A variety of processes for certifying the reporting of advertising impressions provided via video games are described. These certification processes optionally take advantage of automated techniques for verifying that when advertising data is provided a corresponding advertisement is provided within the video game. In addition, as software patches are often provided for video games, a recommended process for certifying patched software is also described. Reporting data associated with advertising impressions provided from uncertified video games is considered suspect and optionally discarded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09180369&OS=09180369&RS=09180369
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09180369
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060405
---
The invention relates to gathering of data from remote locations and more particularly to gathering of metrics relating to applications in execution at the remote locations

Broadcast television has given rise to many related and ancillary industries. One such industry is the advertising industry. Advertising for television is a specialized industry that relies on past and present data to establish a value for advertisements displayed during a broadcast event. In order to support this advertising model an entire industry exists to gather and analyse metrics of television viewership.

To this end audiences are polled relative to their television viewing and statistics relating to viewership are determined. Similarly each broadcast event such as a television show television movie a sporting event etc. is reviewed to determine the advertisements within those broadcast events. Thus the actual advertising content and the statistically analysed viewership are independently determined and verified by an organization to determine the metrics used to establish a value for advertisements. These metrics are typically referred to as audited metrics as their correctness is asserted by an independent metrics organization that asserts that it has verified the correctness thereof. One such metrics organization is the Nielsen Media Research which provides Nielsen ratings that are for the most part audited.

A new medium into which advertising is now being inserted is the medium of video games. As a first generation of in game advertisements static product placements product placements programmed into the game and that remain in the game each time it is played were used. These first generation advertisements have metrics associated therewith calculated and gathered in a fashion similar to those for television viewership.

Presently a next generation in game advertisement is being deployed. According thereto product placements are inserted within video games dynamically such that each time a game is played different advertisements may appear therein. Unfortunately existing methods of determining metrics are not suited to function with these next generation in game advertisements. Problematically the video games are not similar when played different advertisements may be displayed in each the video games are not played at a consistent time and the video games are not played consistently by each player.

It would be advantageous to provide a method of determining metrics for next generation in game advertisements.

It is an object of the invention to provide a method of determining metrics for next generation in game advertisements.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention there is provided a method comprising providing video game software having executable code therein for dynamically inserting advertising data therein from an external source and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data executing the video game on a system for during execution inserting advertising data therein dynamically and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data and comparing the reported data against impressions made during execution of the game to produce a comparison result.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method comprising providing video game software having executable code therein for inserting advertising data from an external source therein dynamically and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data executing the video game software on a system for during execution dynamically inserting advertising data therein and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data and during execution of the video game reporting the data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data in a secure fashion for avoiding tampering therewith.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method comprising providing video game software having executable code therein for dynamically inserting advertising data therein from an external source and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data executing the video game on a system for during execution inserting advertising data therein dynamically and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data and during execution of the video game automatically detecting advertising data dynamically inserted within the video game.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method comprising executing video game software on a gaming system verifying a certification of at least a portion of the video game software to determine a first value and when the first value is indicative of a valid certification from a certifying body reporting impression data from the video game software in execution the reported impression data for being compiled with audited impression data.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method comprising providing a video game application having a certification thereof from a trusted certification body executing the video game application verifying the certification of the video game application as one of reliably certified and other than reliably certified and when the certification of the video game application is verified as reliably certified providing certification data to the video game for use in certifying of reported impression data.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided a storage medium having stored therein video game software having executable code therein for dynamically inserting advertising data therein from an external source and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data a video game system having an adaptor for coupling with a communication network and at least a processor for detecting impressions and for reporting detected impressions and for comparing the reported data against the detected impressions to produce a comparison result.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided a storage medium having stored therein video game software having executable code therein for inserting advertising data from an external source therein dynamically and for reporting data relating to impressions relating to the advertising data a video game system having an adaptor for coupling with a communication network and at least a processor for reporting impressions in a secure fashion for avoiding tampering therewith.

Hereinbelow the term impression is used to refer to information impressed upon a user of a system. Typically impression refers to an advertising impression wherein advertising data is displayed made audible or otherwise communicated to an individual in a fashion that is statistically valid from an advertising industry perspective. The verb to impress is used to connote the action of providing an impression.

For the video game industry audited metrics if verifiable and available industry wide would result in a relative advertising gamer market share for any given game. This gives rise to an in game analogue to Gross Ratings Points GRP as currently used in metrics evaluation. Because the existing advertising industry understands the existing metrics analogous or comparable metrics are highly advantageous.

Referring to a simplified flow diagram of the broadcast event based auditing model is shown. A broadcast event is displayed at box . The broadcast event occupies a length of time in the form of 30 minutes though other lengths of time are supported. Intermittently during the time of the event advertisements are shown as at . Each advertisement has a minimum length of time during which it is displayed and is displayed for at least that minimum length of time continuously. During the event two other processes are being executed. A first process watches the event and records the advertisements shown throughout. Though this process used to be performed by individuals it is now performed automatically using computer software for identifying the advertisements within the event. A second process acts to gather viewership data . This second process is in the form of a survey or feedback mechanism for gathering user viewing statistics.

The advertising viewership data is compiled statistically into tables indicative of advertisement value. This is commonly performed by media research organizations. The tables are then applied to the verified advertisements data to establish a value therefore in a fashion that is now well understood in the media research industry. The viewership data and advertisement data are stored by an external server .

Referring to a process for tracking of advertisements displayed within video games is shown. A video game is played on a gaming system in the form of a personal computer a mobile device a set top box or a gaming console at . The video game has therein locations for display of advertisements. When the video game is played advertisements are loaded by the game for display therein . Each time a video game is played different advertisements are optionally displayed. The video game then transmits to a server at at least a report of the advertisements shown during the course of the game. As such a report of reported displayed advertisements and their associated statistical value is provided thereby greatly reducing the work necessary to statistically evaluate a value of an advertisement. A media research organization at compiles the received report data into appropriate advertising value related reports.

Unfortunately in a system according to an unscrupulous video game provider has an ability to report falsely on a number quality or value of displayed advertisements. Further due to the overwhelming amount of reported data when a game is released identifying this false reporting is quite difficult. As another concern video game providers have an option to upload patches to their games over time. Some of these patches may include false reporting or may correct same. As such the difficulty is significantly complex.

Referring to a method of reporting of audited metrics for use in video games is shown. At a video game is provided for having advertisements dynamically delivered thereto. At the video game is provided to a certifying body for certification thereof. For example a metrics company such as Nielsen may choose to act as a certifying body for video games. At the certifying body tests the video game to establish that the advertisements displayed therein are accurately reported. At the video game is certified as correctly reporting statistics therefrom. At the certified video game is distributed to gamers. At the video game is executed and at its certification is verified. Once verified the reported data relating to displayed advertisements is considered trustworthy. As such at information relating to advertisement delivery is provided from the certified video game. At step statistics relating to advertising in video games are compiled for example by a media research organization and at those statistics are reported in the form of for example an industry report relating to advertising value within video games.

Referring to a process for certifying video games is shown. Here a video game is developed at . After completing development and thorough testing of the video game the video game is provided to a certifying organization for example a media research organisation for auditing thereof at . The video game is tested at by the certifying organization relying upon an automated advertisement detection process in execution. For example a program in execution on the auditing system is able to identify advertisements when displayed. Preferably the advertisement itself is identifiable to ensure accurate reporting of each advertisement displayed. The auditing system compiles a list of all advertisements noted at and compares the list to a list reported by the video game at to ensure accuracy. When the two lists are comparable the video game is determined to be trustworthy at . At the video game is digitally certified as acceptable once it determined to be trustworthy.

In an exemplary embodiment the advertisements displayed during testing of the video game at are predetermined patterns that are designed or selected for ease of automatic identification. Preferably the selected patterns are also distinguishable one from another to allow for verification of individual advertisements in individual advertisement locations. Further preferably the advertisements are automatically generated in response to a request for advertising data such that a process for automatically identifying advertising data when displayed does not require significant storage resources.

In a further embodiment the automatic detection of advertisement data when displayed is performed by an external system. Such a system for example is coupled between a gaming system and a display for intercepting data for being displayed. Alternatively such a system relies on a video capture device such as a video camera to capture video data relating to images presented by a video game during execution thereof. The image data is then analysed in order to extract advertising data that is displayed therein.

Referring to a process for execution of certified video games is shown. The certified video game is loaded onto a game execution system in the form of a personal computer or a gaming console at . A second process in execution on the system and independent of the video game acts to verify the certification of the video game . For example the executable game is hashed to establish that it has not been modified since certification thereof. Once verification is complete the second process communicates with the certifying body at to indicate that reported information from this video game can be included as audited data. At advertising data is reported from the verified video game and at the advertising data is compiled into a report of audited advertising data. Of course when verification fails the data reported by the video game is considered other than trustworthy though it may be compiled into other reports indicative of unaudited but reported advertising data.

Referring to another embodiment for verifying of certification of a video game is shown. Here an application programming interface API is provided at and associated with an object code library. The API and associated object code library comprise at least a command for verifying a version of the video game software application. This at least a command when executed results in an exchange with a server for verifying the certification of the video game application at . A video game application that has been certified is verified by the at least a command within the object code library. For example the at least a command results in hashing of portions of the video game software to produce a hash result. Exchanging of the hash result with a server allows for verification of a certification of the video game software. Alternatively the entire video game software application is hashed. Preferably the API has a small footprint. At when the certification is verified reported advertising data from the video game is compiled with audited reported data results.

Referring to another embodiment is shown. Here an API is provided and associated with an object code library at . The object code library includes at least a command for verifying display of advertisement data within a video game. Thus the at least a command verifies display of advertising data at and records the data in a secure fashion at . The secure recorded data is then transmitted at to a server for compilation thereof at . Optionally the object code library comprises at least a command for verifying the object code library itself to ensure that it is other than modified. Further optionally the video game software is absent a reporting mechanism other than the reporting mechanism within the object code library. At reported advertising data from the object code library is compiled with audited reported data results. Optionally when both the object code library and the video game include reporting mechanisms the reported advertising data is verified by the server to ensure that both reporting mechanisms are in agreement.

For example advertising data includes tag data therein for being easily identified during impressing thereof. Preferably any such tag is not noticeable to the gamer during impressing of the advertisement thereon. Alternatively the process for identifying impressions is provided with the advertising data prior to seeking same to facilitate the accurate and reliable identification of advertising data impressed within a video game during play thereof.

Referring to yet another embodiment is shown. Here an API is provided and associated with an object code library. The object code library comprises a plurality of commands including at least a command for retrieving advertising content another command for displaying the advertising content and a command for securely reporting the display of advertising data within a game during play thereof. Thus the commands perform all tasks relating to advertisement data retrieval display and reporting. Optionally the object code library comprises at least a command for verifying the object code library. In this fashion certification of the object code library results in audited reporting of advertising data from all video games designed using the object code library.

Referring to the diagram of a video game session is initiated and an advertisement is requested by the video game in execution at . The advertisement when received is stored in a cache managed by the object code library at . When the location for display of the advertising data is within view the object code library retrieves the advertising data from the cache at . Commands within the object code library are executed for displaying of an image based on the advertising data within the location at . Once displayed display related information is compiled to be reported at . The compiled data is secured at . The secured data is transmitted to a server at for compilation thereof with other secured data at . Of course though is described with reference to advertising image data other advertising data in the form of video text audio data and so forth are also supported. Alternatively the reported data is other than secured.

Referring to a process for reporting of advertising data is shown wherein the reports are provided from the video game directly to the certifying body to ensure accuracy thereof. Here by reporting data directly to the certifying body or to a neutral data collection organization tampering with the data is prevented. Thus along with a method of verifying accuracy of the reported data the method of allows for ensuring of accuracy of the data received. A video game is executed at . The video game establishes a communication link with an advertising data provider at . The video game establishes a communication link with a trusted organization for compiling of advertising display data at . When advertising data is impressed upon a gamer the reported information is provided directly to the trusted organization at . Optionally as shown at the information is also provided to the server from which advertising data is retrieved. Further optionally the information is also provided to other servers for example a server of the video game publisher. Once received at a trusted organization the information is distributed for use in media research.

Referring to a process for reporting of advertising data is shown wherein the reports are secured by the certified video game software prior to transmission thereof to ensure accuracy thereof. As shown at a video game is executed and a video game session is initiated . The video game establishes a communication link with an advertising data provider at . At advertising data for being reported is received. At the data is used to generate advertising impressions for being impressed upon a gamer playing the video game. At data relating to impressions provided is secured using a public key for signing of the data. At the signed data is transmitted to a server. At the server the secured data is verified at . Once verified the data is compiled with other data to form advertising impression statistical information at .

Referring to a process for patching of certified video games is shown. Here the process relies on the above described methods for certifying of video games. It is significant to note that patches that do not affect certified software within a video game do not require further certification in accordance with the present invention.

At a software patch for modifying video game software is provided. A certifying body patches the software with the software patch at and tests the resulting software at . When the software executes and reports advertising data accordingly the certifying body certifies the patch at and inserts within the patch a certification code for use in verifying of the patched software at . In use patching of the software results in modifications thereto that will still be verified as certified due to the further testing thereof. Alternatively when the method of or is used the certifying body merely verifies that the object code library is unaffected by the patch. When the object code library is affected by the patch the object code library as patches is retested and re certified.

Referring to some examples of identifiable advertisement patterns are shown. A simple pattern for identification includes a colour pattern that repeats itself in an identifiable fashion such that stretching perspective wrapping contouring etc. of the image data renders the resulting image identifiable. By varying the colour content of the pattern a similar pattern is reusable many times each time with a different colour sequence. Alternatively a recurring pattern is overlaid on a standard advertising pattern such as a neutral colour background resulting in easy identification of the area of neutral colour and then the pattern is merely used to distinguish between advertisements as shown in .

Though the above descriptions rely on reporting of advertising impressions to a server the impressions are optionally aggregated prior to reporting thereof. Further optionally the impression data is stored in a secured fashion prior to aggregation thereof to prevent tampering therewith. For example an object code library that is trusted is used to secure and aggregate the data prior to transmission thereof.

In an embodiment an audit log is generated for being provided to the server. As such when content is auditable and when auditing of data is performed then records provided to the server include audit data for use in verifying auditing of the advertisement impressions. When used with a method such as those of such an audit portion allows for spot audits of video games that are other than directly accessible by the certifying organization. In accordance with such an embodiment each record includes a portion provided by the object code library and relating to identification and tracking of impressions during execution of a video game.

Alternatively the audited data indicates a degree of correlation between the reported data and the auditing results thereby resulting in an indication of reliability of the reported data. Though 100 is such an indication it is also possible to have lesser percentage reliability and to still be considered trustworthy from a statistical perspective. Application of the method of the invention for use in evaluating trustworthiness of reported impression data is supported according to the above embodiments. For example if the reporting is reporting fewer impressions than those shown disagreement between the reports and the audited values results in enhanced trustworthiness. Even a few reported values that are missing from the audited results may simply indicate errors in the auditing process. As such the correlation requirements between the audited and reported data is a matter left to those of skill in the art of media research and statistics.

Though the above embodiments are described with reference to video games those skilled in the art will recognize that the methods and systems described hereinabove are also applicable to other software applications for displaying and reporting of advertising data and or other commercial data for display thereon.

It is for those of skill in the art of media research to determine whether all advertising locations require auditing thereof or only a subset requires auditing. Further it is possible to audit video game performance on a regular basis at random intervals or in a continuous uninterrupted fashion.

Numerous other embodiments may be envisaged without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.

