---

title: Portable device and method for entertainment interaction data
abstract: A system and method for use with a portable device, includes but is not limited to a method including accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and/or a computing device operable via a user interface, querying of the one or more entities to determine one or more interaction capabilities between the portable device and the one or more entities and actuating user enhancement data in association with one or more of multimedia data, multimedia streams and/or multimedia content on the portable device retrieved from the one or more entities and/or a source operably coupled to the one or more entities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08208850&OS=08208850&RS=08208850
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08208850
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
In one aspect a method for operating a portable device includes but is not limited to accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and or a computing device operable via a user interface querying of the one or more entities to determine one or more interaction capabilities between the portable device and the one or more entities and actuating user enhancement data in association with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content on the portable device retrieved from the one or more entities and or a source operably coupled to the one or more entities In addition to the foregoing other method aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In another aspect a computer program product includes but is not limited to a signal bearing medium bearing at least one of one or more instructions for accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and or a computing device operable via a user interface one or more instructions for querying of the one or more entities to determine one or more interaction capabilities between the portable device and the one or more entities and one or more instructions for actuating user enhancement data in association with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content on the portable device retrieved from the one or more entities and or a source operably coupled to the one or more entities. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to affect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In one aspect a portable device includes but is not limited to a one or more processors an audio and or video input and or output circuitry coupled to the processor a a memory coupled to the processor a memory coupled to the processor a user interface module coupled to the one or more processors for actuating user enhancement data in association with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content on the portable device retrieved from the one or more entities and or a source operably coupled to the one or more entities an access module coupled to the one or more processors for accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and or a computing device operable via a user interface and a query module coupled to the one or more processors for querying of the one or more entities to determine one or more interaction capabilities between the portable device and the one or more entities. In addition to the foregoing other portable device aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In addition to the foregoing various other method system computer program product and or portable device aspects are set forth and described in the text e.g. claims and or detailed description and or drawings of the present application.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is NOT intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject described herein will become apparent in the text set forth herein.

In the description that follows the subject matter of the application will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computers unless indicated otherwise. As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains it at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However although the subject matter of the application is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those skilled in the art will appreciate that some of the acts and operations described hereinafter can also be implemented in hardware software and or firmware and or some combination thereof.

With reference to depicted is an exemplary computing system for implementing embodiments. includes a computer which could be a portable computer including a processor memory and one or more drives . The drives and their associated computer storage media provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Drives can include an operating system application programs program modules and program data . Computer further includes user input devices through which a user may enter commands and data. Input devices can include an electronic digitizer a microphone a keyboard and a pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner and the like. In one or more embodiments user input devices are portable devices that can direct display or instantiation of applications running on processor .

These and other input devices can be connected to processor through a user input interface that is coupled to a system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Computers such as computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and or display devices which may be connected through an output peripheral interface and the like.

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer. The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many if not all of the elements described above relative to computer . Networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. For example in the subject matter of the present application computer may comprise the source machine from which data is being migrated and the remote computer may comprise the destination machine. Note however that source and destination machines need not be connected by a network or any other means but instead data may be migrated via any media capable of being written by the source platform and read by the destination platform or platforms. When used in a LAN or WLAN networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or an adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN to environments such as the Internet. It will be appreciated that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

According to one embodiment computer is connected in a networking environment such that processor can process incoming data such as multimedia data multimedia streams multimedia content such as audio and or video content and the like. The incoming data can be to and or from a portable device or from another data source.

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary block diagram of a system including portable devices such as portable computer systems capable of interacting with one or more other computer systems. System is shown including network controller a network and one or more portable devices and . Portable devices and may include telephones wireless telephones cellular telephones tablet computers personal digital assistants computer terminals and or any other devices that are capable of sending and receiving data. As described below network controller can optionally be disposed within a portable device such as device or the like. For example the portable device could be disposed within a portable computer system capable of running a network controller .

Network controller is connected to network . Network controller may be located at a base station a service center or any other location on network . Network may include any type of network that is capable of sending and receiving communication signals including signals for multimedia content data and streaming video.

Network may include a data network such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a cable network and other like systems that are capable of transmitting multimedia video streaming video audio and the like. Network may also include a telecommunications network such as a local telephone network long distance telephone network cellular telephone network satellite communications network cable television network and other like communications systems that interact with computer systems to enable set top boxes or other audio visual controllers to communicate media and multimedia signals. Network may include more than one network and may include a plurality of different types of networks. Thus network may include a plurality of data networks a plurality of telecommunications networks cable systems satellite systems and or a combination of data and telecommunications networks and other like communication systems.

In operation one of the portable devices or may attempt a communication with a receiving computer system set top box audio visual controller or network controller. The communication can be routed through network and network controller to the receiving computer system. In an embodiment network controller is a multimedia content controller capable of determining the type of media content for receiving and or sending to a portable device. According to an embodiment network controller can include a protocol module that can determine whether the recipient communication device is requesting streaming video streaming audio multimedia content audio video text data or the like. Thus for example if network includes several types of data and or content deliverable to a portable device the protocol module can be configured to pass only the content and or data appropriate for the portable device and or the receiving device. A portable device requesting content can identify itself as capable of receiving data according to a predetermined protocol including speed of transmission type of data readable by the portable device and the like.

Embodiments described herein describe transmitting media content to and or from a portable device to another device for display. More specifically embodiments herein describe how a portable device such as portable devices and or displaying video content can transfer video content to another display with resolution capabilities unavailable and or unknown to the portable device. Thus for example a user of mobile phone displaying video content can transfer user enhancement data associated with multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content. The multimedia data can be metadata interactive programming data and the like. The multimedia streams can be video or audio streams.

According to an embodiment processor includes or is coupled to a user interface module . User interface module may be installed within processor or may be installed on hardware coupled to the processor . Alternatively user interface could be located in software in memory and executed by processor . Memory can include a random access memory a read only memory an optical memory a subscriber identity module memory or any other memory that can be coupled to a portable device. Display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display a plasma display or any other means for displaying information and may or may not have a predetermined resolution capability. Audio video input and output circuitry can include a microphone a speaker a transducer or any other audio input and output circuitry. User interface can include a keypad buttons a touch pad a joystick an additional display or any other device useful for providing an interface between a user and a portable device or display coupled to a portable device.

Processor can be configured to control the functions of portable device . Portable device can send and receive signals across network using a transceiver coupled to antenna . Alternatively portable device can be a device relying on twisted pair technology.

Transceiver is shown coupled to processor and can be configured for accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and or a computing device operable via a user interface. In one embodiment either or both of processors and or transceivers can be configured with an access module for accessing the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked. The access module can further be configured to incorporate or configured to instantiate an identifier module such as an identifier module configured to enable obtaining data identifying a source supplying the user enhancement data associated with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content to the one or more entities to enable access by the portable device the identifier module disposed within a transceiver coupled to the one or more processors. For example an identifier module can include a radio frequency identifier RFID type module that receives data identifying the source of content via an RFID protocol a globally unique identifier GUID a protocol following a digital rights management protocol or the like as one with skill in the art with the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate is appropriate for multimedia content. The identifier module can further be coupled to a data store to enable logging the data identifying the source supplying data to the one or more entities to enable an interactive session with the source supplying data. For example depending on the protocol mandated to enable the identifier module to identify the source of content and or data the logging of the data can include logging RFID information GUID data or logging the interactions between entities to prevent recurrence of misconnections or incorrect sources of content and data in the future. Additionally the data store can hold user authentication data to enable the portable device to have access to sources of data otherwise unavailable to a user without authentication.

In one embodiment the identifier module is configured to include or have access to a metadata module Metadata module can be configured for accessing a remote server and or a set top box audio visual controller and or a multimedia data controller to obtain metadata for the interactive session. For example metadata module could include application programming interface API code to enable a processor operating with an audio and or visual controller to interact with networked entities.

According to an embodiment a user can use either the user interface for input and output of information to and from portable device or use input and output using the audio video input and output circuitry . Data received by portable device can be visually displayed on display and or provided audibly through audio video input and output circuitry . For example multimedia applications can be stored on memory and processed by processor to be output via either or both of a visual and or audio output.

According to one embodiment the processor and or access module can determine which entities are computationally capable of being networked via scanning circuitry configured for scanning for one or more electronic transmissions from the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to the portable device. For example processor in combination with scanning circuitry can be configured to receive wireless or other forms of network electronic transmissions from entities computationally capable of networking with the portable device. Such entities can include other portable devices signal generating entities such as broadcast entities satellite entities and the like.

Scanning circuitry can further be coupled to capabilities module wherein the capabilities module is configured for determining which of the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to the portable device to access.

Other computationally capable entities being networked to the portable device can further include communications entities such as cellular service companies cable service companies digital subscriber line companies movies on demand companies and the like that have network capabilities. For example a cable service company following a DOCSIS protocol could enable a portable device to connect to services following a DOCSIS protocol to provide video services which could include streaming video pay per view movies audio services radio services and the like.

Referring now to an exemplary flow diagram illustrates the operation of the processor and or network controller according to an embodiment. One of skill in the art with the benefit of the present disclosure will appreciate that act s can be taken by network controller and or processor .

Block provides for accessing of one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to one or more of the portable device and or a computing device operable via a user interface. For example processor and or access module can be configured to access entities computationally capable of being networked to a portable device or computing device such as computer . Access module can include code for directing a modem a wireless detector a network connection or the like and will be appreciated by one of skill in the art with the benefit of this disclosure. Depicted within block block provides for scanning for one or more electronic transmissions from the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to the portable device. For example as shown in scanning circuitry can be configured to operate with processor and access module to scan an area or other network connections to access the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to the portable device or computing device. Block provides for determining which of the one or more entities computationally capable of being networked to the portable device to access. For example after a scan is performed as provided for in block block can provide that processor and or access module determine an appropriate entity for networking to the portable device. More specifically access module includes an identifier module that can be configured to identify a best entity for networking with the portable device.

Block provides for querying of the one or more entities to determine one or more interaction capabilities between the portable device and the one or more entities. For example after an entity is chosen for networking query module can perform query tasks to determine the extent of interaction possible between the entity and the portable device. In some cases the limiting factor for interaction could be the portable device capabilities and in other cases the limiting factor for interaction could be the entity networked to the portable device. To determine the limiting factor query module can be configured to determine the interaction capabilities of one or more entities by pinging or otherwise connecting with an entity and performing a handshake protocol wherein the networking connection is established and following the connection exchanging protocol data to determine whether transfer of media content or parameters describing media content is appropriate for the entity. Depicted within block is block which provides for determining a protocol for interacting with the one or more entities. For example query module can determine the protocol using a handshake or other appropriate method of exchanging protocol data.

Also depicted within block is block which provides for obtaining data identifying a source supplying the user enhancement data associated with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content to the one or more entities to enable access by the portable device. For example referring to access module is configured to include an identifier module which can be configured to identify whether the one or more entities are sources that can supply multimedia data multimedia data streams and or multimedia content or whether the one or more entities must connect with an outside source of the multimedia data and or content and or multimedia data streams. An entity can interact with a portable device by responding to commands or requests from the portable device.

Depicted within block is block which provides for retrieving interactive program guide data and or content data for instantiation on the portable device to enable a user to operate the one or more entities from the portable device. For example processor and access module can be configured to retrieve interactive program guide data and or content via transceiver . Also depicted within block is block which provides for logging the data identifying the source supplying data to the one or more entities to enable an interactive session with the source supplying data. For example processor in combination with data store can be configured to log data identifying a source capable of supplying the content data multimedia streams multimedia content and the like. Data store can hold data identifying the source by logging protocol data determined by query module and identification data from identifier module . The logged data can further include logging radio frequency identification RFID data globally unique identifier GUID data or logging the interactions between entities to prevent recurrence of misconnections or incorrect sources of content and data in the future. Depicted within block is block which provides for storing the data identifying the source supplying data to prevent requiring a subsequent logging of the data identifying the source supplying data. For example data store can be configured to store data identifying the source of data. The stored data can include authentication data and the like.

Block is followed by block which provides for accessing a remote server and or a set top box audio visual controller and or a multimedia data controller to obtain metadata for the interactive session. For example processor in combination with access module and transceiver can access a remote server set top box audio visual controller and or a multimedia data controller.

Referring now to block provides for actuating user enhancement data in association with one or more of multimedia data multimedia streams and or multimedia content on the portable device retrieved from the one or more entities and or a source operably coupled to the one or more entities. For example processor in combination with transceiver display and or audio video input output can direct actuation of entertainment data such as multimedia data multimedia content streams and the like.

Depicted within block is block which provides for displaying on the portable device one or more of preview data program content and or content with metadata and or distilled content versions of multimedia data streams and or video and or audio streams on screen data and or live program stream data and or scene information related to data available to from the one or more entities. For example display can be configured to operate with processor to display the preview data program content metadata and content and data streams such as distilled content and the like. Depicted within block is block which provides for displaying on the portable device implemented as one or more of a cellular phone a personal digital assistant a mobile phone a portable computing device and or a universal remote control with networking capabilities. For example a portable device that is a mobile phone can include a display appropriate for streaming video and or audio output.

Also depicted within block is block which provides for receiving metadata from the one or more entities. For example metadata module can be configured to receive metadata via transceiver and processor . Block is also depicted within block and provides for processing the metadata to enable a user interface installed on the portable device to implement one or more of an interactive session with the one or more entities and or a display of the metadata according to the user interface. For example processor can be configured to process the metadata. Thus metadata stored in data store and or metadata module can be processed by processor to enable instructions received via user interface to be implemented in an interactive session.

Depicted within block is block which provides for using the metadata to determine which of a plurality of display capabilities of the portable device to enable for data retrieved from the one or more entities and or data retrieved from a remote server providing the metadata related to the data available to the one or more entities.

Also depicted within block is block which provides for retrieving interactive program data related to the data available to the one or more entities. For example processor in combination with transceiver can retrieve interactive program data.

Following block is block which provides for parsing the interactive program data for a subset appropriate for the portable device. Thus for example the retrieved interactive program data can be parsed to determine appropriate data for display or actuation by the mobile device.

Also depicted in block is block which provides for processing the data related to the data available to the one or more entities according to one or more user centric parameters. For example processor can process the data related to the data available to the one or more entities. For example if the one or more entities include a cable system audio visual controller the data for display via the cable system can be processed via processor .

Block also depicts block which provides for receiving metadata related to the one or more entities at the portable device to enable the user interface to instantiate entertainment data. For example processor can receive metadata via metadata module and receive instructions via user interface to instantiate data received over transceiver .

Those with skill in the computing arts will recognize that the disclosed embodiments have relevance to a wide variety of applications and architectures in addition to those described above. In addition the functionality of the subject matter of the present application can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The hardware portion can be implemented using specialized logic the software portion can be stored in a memory or recording medium and executed by a suitable instruction execution system such as a microprocessor.

While the subject matter of the application has been shown and described with reference to particular embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter of the application including but not limited to additional less or modified elements and or additional less or modified blocks performed in the same or a different order.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. 

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems in the fashion s set forth herein and thereafter use engineering and or business practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket hovercraft helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Quest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity such as Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

