---

title: Providing an advertisement to a calling party before ringback
abstract: Communication networks and associated methods are disclosed that provide an advertisement or other type of informational message to a calling party before providing ringback tones. A communication network described herein receives a call from the calling party to the called party, and temporarily interrupts call processing for the call. The communication network then selects an advertisement for the call, and initiates delivery of the advertisement to the calling party. After the advertisement is delivered to the calling party, the communication network resumes call processing for the call. In resuming call processing, the communication network provides ringback tones to the calling party and attempts to connect the call to the called party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385514&OS=08385514&RS=08385514
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08385514
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20061120
---
The invention is related to the field of communication networks and in particular to providing an advertisement to a calling party before providing ringback for the call to the calling party.

When a calling party places a call to a called party the sounds heard by the calling party when waiting for the called party to answer the call is referred to as ringback tones. The communication network over which the call is placed provides the ringback tones to the calling party which is typically a ringing sound. A present trend of service providers is to offer customized ringback tones to its subscribers. Customized ringback tones may comprise music songs sound clips audio messages prerecorded greetings etc that the communication network plays as ringback tones instead of or in addition to the traditional ringing sound. Customized ringback tones may be associated with specific directory numbers of the calling party such as with phone lists or exclusion lists. The subscriber can also set conditions for when for whom or what is played for the ringback tones based on time day of the week the calling party etc. Customized ringback tones have generated high revenues for services providers.

Emerging multimedia phones e.g. wireless handsets broadband wireline phone sets SIP phones etc allow text animated images audio video clips etc as multimedia ringback tones to the calling party. The subscriber can define selected images or video clips as multimedia ringback tones and store them in the communication network. If a calling party calls the subscriber the communication network plays back the selected image or video clip to the calling party based on the multimedia ringback tone profile defined by the subscriber.

A source of revenue generation for service providers is selling advertising targeted to its subscribers. One problem facing service providers is thus how to provide the advertising to the subscribers. One solution is to replace the traditional ringback for a call with a multimedia ringback tone that is an advertisement. Instead of a calling party hearing the traditional ringing sound when calling a business or an individual the communication network may play a multimedia advertisement to the calling party. Although using the multimedia ringback tone as the advertisement is useful there may be some limitations. For instance the advertisement may not be fully played to the calling party if the called party answers the call before the advertisement has been fully played. Thus it may be desirable to provide advertisements to a calling party in a different manner.

The invention provides advantages over prior communication networks and methods by providing an advertisement to a calling party before providing ringback tones for the call. In one embodiment of the invention the communication network receives a call from the calling party to the called party and temporarily interrupts call processing for the call. The communication network then selects an advertisement for the call and initiates delivery of the advertisement to the calling party. After the advertisement has been delivered to the calling party the communication network resumes call processing for the call. In resuming call processing the communication network provides ringback tones to the calling party and attempts to connect the call to the called party.

Because call processing is temporarily interrupted the communication network can provide the advertisement to the calling party in full. After the advertisement is delivered and call processing resumes the ringback tones are provided to the calling party as the call is being set up. The advertisement is not interrupted by the called party answering the call because call processing is temporarily interrupted and has not yet been extended to the called party. Temporarily interrupting call processing advantageously allows a service provider to ensure that complete advertisements are provided to calling parties.

Another embodiment of the invention is a communication network comprising an advertising system and a network node. The network node is adapted to receive a call from a calling party to a called party and to interrupt call processing for the call. The network node is further adapted to transmit a message to the advertising system requesting an advertisement for the call. The advertising system is adapted to select an advertisement for the call and to initiate delivery of the selected advertisement to the calling party. After the selected advertisement is delivered to the calling party the network node is further adapted to resume call processing to allow the calling party to receive ringback tones for the call.

Communication network includes a network node a network node and an advertising system . Network node includes any switch server or other device that serves device for a call. For instance network node may comprise a switch in a wireline network a Mobile Switching Center MSC in a wireless network or a Call Session Control Function CSCF in an IMS network. Similarly network node includes any switch server or other device that serves device for a call.

Advertising system comprises any system server or device adapted to play deliver or otherwise provide an advertisement to calling party . An advertisement comprises any media or content adapted to draw attention to goods and or services. The goods or services may be related to communication network or the service provider operating the communication network or may be related to a third party that contracts with the service provider to provide the advertisement. The advertisement may be delivered to calling party according to many different media types such as text audio video multimedia etc. Advertising system may also provide other types of informational messages that are not necessarily advertisements. For instance the informational messages may be an announcement of an anniversary an announcement of a party an emergency message such as a weather alert or a traffic alert etc.

Advertising system may comprise a single independent server or system in communication network such as an Intelligent Peripheral IP or an Application Server AS or may be distributed among multiple servers or systems in communication network . Advertising system may also be incorporated in network node and or network node . Advertising system stores information on advertisements that are to be delivered to calling party and other calling parties. The information on the advertisements may include actual content for the advertisements such as audio files video files etc. The information on the advertisements may also or alternatively include identification information for the advertisements such as a title of an advertisement an owner of an advertisement or a location of an advertisement e.g. a link a network address etc . Advertising system may not necessarily store each of the actual advertisements but should include information on the advertisements to be used in communication network .

Communication network is operated by a service provider or multiple service providers. The service provider in this embodiment is offering an advertising service that provides one or more advertisements during a call before the ringback tones are provided for the call. Calling party and or called party may be subscribing to the advertising service in this embodiment.

In step of method network node receives a call from calling party to called party through device . In receiving the call network node may receive dialed digits for the call. Network node initiates call processing to determine how to proceed with the call. As part of call processing there may be one or more triggers defined to provide the advertising service described herein. If the condition or conditions for a trigger are satisfied during call processing then network node temporarily interrupts call processing for the call in step . Network node also transmits a message to advertising system requesting an advertisement for the call.

Advertising system receives the message from network node and selects an advertisement for the call in step . Advertising system may select the advertisement based on information on calling party information on called party or other information. For instance advertising system may select the advertisement based on a user profile e.g. age hobbies etc for calling party based on a location of calling party or based on other information on calling party . Advertising system may select the advertisement based on an identity of called party based on a user profile for called party or based on other information on called party . Advertising system may also select no advertisement to play for the call which means that advertising system is slipping the advertisement for a call.

Advertising system then initiates delivery of the selected advertisement to calling party in step . The advertisement may comprise any type of media content such as text audio video multimedia etc. Advertising system may initiate delivery of the advertisement in a variety of ways. For instance advertising system may store the content for the selected advertisement and may deliver the advertisement to calling party through network node . Alternatively advertising system may identify another content server that stores the selected advertisement and may provide network node with a network identifier e.g. URL or TLDN for the content server. Network node may then contact the content server and the content server delivers the advertisement to calling party . Alternatively advertising system may transmit a network identifier to device indicating the content server that is storing the advertisement. Device may then automatically access the content server to download the advertisement responsive to receiving the network identifier.

After the advertisement is delivered to calling party network node resumes call processing for the call. A normal call flow may now take place to attempt to connect the call to called party . In network node routes the call to network node . Network node then attempts to connect the call to device . Network node also provides ringback tones otherwise referred to as progress tones to device of calling party in step . The ringback tones may be traditional ringing tones multimedia ringback tones another advertisement or any other type of ringback. Network node may contact a ringback tone server not shown in to provide the ringback tones to device . The ringback tones may comprise on hook ringback tones or busy ringback tones depending on the status of called party on hook or busy .

If calling party listens to or views an advertisement then advertisement system may credit awards points earned by calling party for receiving the advertisement. Advertising system may maintain an account for calling party that is used to track award points earned by calling party . The award points may be redeemed by calling party for discounts gift purchases etc.

In an alternative embodiment network node may perform some or all of the functions performed by network node . For instance network node may monitor one or more triggers and if a trigger is encountered interrupt call processing and contact advertising system . If calling party is a subscriber to the advertising service then network node that is serving device of calling party will probably provide the operation described for method . If called party is a subscriber to the advertising service then network node that is serving device of called party will probably provide the operation described for method instead of network node . The service provider may configure communication network in different desired ways.

Method described above provides advantages over prior advertising services. Because call processing is temporarily interrupted advertising system can provide the advertisement to calling party in full. After the advertisement is delivered and call processing resumes the ringback tones are provided to calling party as the call is being set up. The advertisement is not interrupted by called party answering the call because the call processing is temporarily interrupted and has not yet been extended to called party . Temporarily interrupting the call processing advantageously allows a service provider to ensure that a complete advertisement is provided to calling party .

As stated in the preceding paragraphs advertising system may select an advertisement to play for the call based on different criteria. One exemplary criterion used to select an advertisement may be a user profile for calling party . A user profile comprises any data or information for calling party that is used to select an advertisement. The user profile may include the age of calling party the gender of calling party services subscribed to by calling party capabilities of device bandwidth available to device quality of service levels particular interests of calling party such as a sports enthusiast a comedy enthusiast a music enthusiast etc or any other desired information. Advertising system may process the user profile to select the advertisement to play for calling party .

Another exemplary criterion used to select an advertisement may be a selection by calling party . One assumption for this criterion is that calling party has subscribed to the advertising service. When signing up for the advertising service calling party may select one or more types or categories of advertisements to play. For instance one category of advertisement may be restaurants and another category of advertisement may be movies . Calling party may thus define what categories of advertisements are played. Calling party may also change his her selection of the categories of advertisements such as through a web page through device such as through a drop down menu etc. Calling party may also select a more specific category of advertisement such as advertisements for iPODs watches etc.

Another exemplary criterion used to select an advertisement may be a present status of calling party . Some exemplary status of calling party are home office driving out of town etc. Calling party may define what categories of advertisements are played for each status of calling party . If the status of calling party changes then the advertisements selected by advertising system may also change.

Advertising system may also allow for calling party the service provider operating communication network or another entity to define advertising characteristics. Advertising characteristics are rules or policies used to control how advertisements are provided to a calling party. For instance one advertising characteristic may be the maximum number of advertisements allowed during a certain time frame. Another advertising characteristic may be the maximum number of advertisements allowed from a particular vendor. Another advertising characteristic may be the number of times the same advertisement will be presented to a calling party. Advertising system may maintain a history of advertisements that are played out to individual parties and process the advertising characteristics and the history to further assist in selecting an advertisement to play.

Another exemplary criterion used to select an advertisement may be the location of calling party . Advertising system may then provide a location based advertisement to calling party . For instance if calling party is located in a shopping mall then advertising system may play an advertisement for a sale at a store in the vicinity of calling party . To provide location based advertisements advertising system acquires the location or estimated location of calling party . In one example advertising system may receive a latitude longitude from device of calling party if device is GPS enabled. In another example advertising system may receive an MSCID from the MSC that is serving device if calling party is a mobile user. Advertising system may then access a database that maps the MSCID to a location in order to estimate the location of calling party . In another example advertising system may receive a directory number of calling party if calling party is a wireline fixed location user. Advertising system may then access a database that maps the NPA NXX of the directory number to a location in order to estimate the location of calling party .

Calling party may have the option of selecting whether the advertisements should relate to his her home location or present location e.g. roaming situation . An exemplary implementation of this concept is as follows. The user profile for calling party includes a provisionable Home or Current Location flag that is associated with each category of advertisement. The flag indicates to advertising system whether to provide calling party with advertisements based on his her home location or present location for each category. As an example assume that calling party selects the home location for a category of advertisements cars . Further assume that calling party selects the present location for a category of advertisements food . When selecting an advertisement to provide to calling party advertising system checks the Home or Current Location flag to determine which location to use. As an example if the category of advertisements selected is cars then advertising system will select car advertisements related to the home location of calling party . If the category of advertisements selected is food then advertising system will select food advertisements related to the present location of calling party no matter whether calling party is registered at home or is roaming.

While the advertisement is being played to calling party in any of the above embodiments calling party may interact with communication network to invoke one or more features such as by using feature codes voice commands etc. In one example calling party may provide input requesting that the present advertisement be skipped such as by entering a particular feature code e.g. 96 or by saying the word skip . Responsive to receiving the input advertising system will skip the advertisement or stop playing the advertisement and direct network node to resume call processing. In another example calling party may provide input requesting additional information on the advertisement being played by entering a particular feature code e.g. 97 or by saying the word more . Responsive to receiving the input advertising system may transmit a text multimedia message an email message or another type of message to calling party that includes the additional information requested by calling party .

If calling party skips the advertisement as described in the preceding paragraph then advertising system may adjust any reward points that were already credited to calling party . For instance when initiating delivery of the advertisement to calling party advertising system may credit the award points to an account for calling party . If calling party later provides input to skip the advertisement then advertising system may debit the previously credited reward points from the account for calling party .

Communication network also includes an advertising system . Advertising system includes a tone server and a selection server . Tone server comprises any system or server that handles network operations for advertising system . Selection server comprises any system or server that selects an advertisement to play to a calling party .

For the following description assume that calling party has subscribed to an advertising service provided by the service provider operating communication network . The advertising service is a service that provides advertisements to a calling party before providing ringback for the call.

Responsive to receiving the REGNOT message HLR transmits a response message to S MSC in the form of a regnot message. The regnot message includes the TRIGADDRLIST parameter which is set to indicate which of the WIN triggers are active. For instance the TRIGADDRLIST parameter may indicate that the All Calls trigger is active. The TRIGADDRLIST parameter also specifies routing to the network entity that should be contacted responsive to a triggering event. In this embodiment the network entity that should be contacted is tone server so the TRIGADDRLIST parameter includes a network identifier or a network address for tone server . Mobile device is now registered with the advertising service offered by the service provider.

When in operation calling party places a call through mobile device . S MSC receives the dialed digits for the call and initiates processing of the call. In processing the call if S MSC encounters an active trigger e.g. All Calls trigger then S MSC transmits an origination request ORREQ message to tone server . The ORREQ message includes call related parameters such as the calling party directory number MDN the dialed digits DGTSDIAL for the call the MSCID for S MSC and trigger type and WIN capabilities. Responsive to encountering the active trigger S MSC also suspends call processing on the call and waits for an orreq response message from tone server to proceed further with the call processing.

Tone server receives the ORREQ message from S MSC and invokes the advertising service using the parameters received in the ORREQ message. Because calling party has been provisioned in tone server for the advertising service tone server transmits a request message to selection server requesting details of the advertisement to play for the call if any . Tone server includes the calling party directory number MSCID called party directory number and other available information in the request message to selection server .

Selection server applies its logic to the user profile for calling party to determine whether or not to play an advertisement for the call. If a decision is made to play an advertisement then selection server also selects an advertisement to play. Selection server may select the advertisement based on different criteria some of which were described in previous embodiments. After selecting the advertisement to play selection server transmits a response message to tone server . The response message includes an identifier for the selected advertisement.

Responsive to receiving the advertisement identifier tone server transmits a Connect Resource CONNRES message to S MSC . A TLDN parameter of the CONNRES message includes a directory number for tone server . Responsive to receiving the CONNRES message S MSC transmits an ISUP Initial Address Message IAM to tone server to establish a temporary call leg to the directory number indicated in the TLDN parameter of the CONNRES message. S MSC thus establishes a temporary call leg to tone server based on the directory number.

With the call leg established tone server plays or delivers the selected advertisement to mobile device over the bearer channel that has been set up. Tone server also monitors the bearer channel for any inputs from calling party and takes appropriate actions. One such action may be skipping the advertisement. Another action may be requesting additional information regarding the advertisement.

Upon completion of the advertisement tone server transmits an orreq message with Null parameters to S MSC . Responsive to the orreq message S MSC transmits a Release REL message to tone server to tear down the temporary call leg. Tone server responds with an ISUP Release Complete RLC message. S MSC then resumes processing the call to called party by transmitting an IAM for the call to O MSC . Responsive to the LAM O MSC attempts to connect the call to mobile device . O MSC also transmits ringback tones to mobile device through S MSC . The ringback tones may be traditional ringing tones multimedia ringback tones another advertisement or any other type of ringback.

Tone server receives the ORREQ message from S MSC and invokes the advertising service using the parameters received in the ORREQ message. Because calling party has been provisioned in tone server for the advertising service tone server transmits a request message to selection server requesting details of the advertisement to play for the call if any . Selection server may maintain a list of dialed digits for which the advertisement will be skipped for calling party . For instance calling party may not want to receive advertisements for calls home for calls to a child s cell phone etc. Selection server may also or alternatively process other criteria to determine whether or not to play an advertisement for the call. In this embodiment selection server determines that an advertisement is not to be played for this call and transmits a response message to tone server indicating that no advertisement is to be played.

Responsive to receiving the response message tone server transmits an orreq message with Null parameters to S MSC . Responsive to the orreq message S MSC resumes processing the call to called party by transmitting an IAM for the call to O MSC . Responsive to the IAM O MSC attempts to connect the call to mobile device . O MSC also transmits ringback tones to mobile device through S MSC . Any request response messaging scheme using a suitable protocol such as TCP IP can be used for the communications between tone server and selection server in .

In S MSC is the network node that triggers the advertising service. O MSC may also or alternatively be the network node that triggers the advertising service which is illustrated in . When the called party subscribes to the service the network node serving the called party is the trigger. In this case a calling party will hear an advertisement when placing a call to specific called parties. For instance if the calling party places a call to a department store then the calling party will hear an advertisement before ringback tones.

During further processing of the call as the O MSC encounters an active trigger e.g. Advanced Termination trigger then O MSC transmits an Analyzed Information ANLYZD message to tone server . Responsive to encountering the active trigger O MSC also suspends call processing on the call and waits for an Analyzed Information response anlyzd message from tone server to proceed further with the call processing.

Tone server receives the ANLYZD message from O MSC and invokes the advertising service using the parameters received in the ANLYZD message. Because calling party has been provisioned in tone server for the advertising service tone server transmits a request message to selection server requesting details of the advertisement to play for the call if any . Tone server includes the calling party directory number MSCID called party directory number and other available information in the request message to selection server .

Selection server applies its logic to the user profile for calling party to determine whether or not to play an advertisement for the call. If a decision is made to play an advertisement then selection server also selects an advertisement to play. Selection server may select the advertisement based on different criteria some of which were described in previous embodiments. After selecting the advertisement to play selection server transmits a response message to tone server . The response message includes an identifier for the selected advertisement.

Responsive to receiving the advertisement identifier tone server transmits a Connect Resource CONNRES message to O MSC . A TLDN parameter of the CONNRES message includes a directory number for tone server . Responsive to receiving the CONNRES message O MSC transmits an IAM to tone server to establish a temporary call leg to the directory number indicated in the TLDN parameter of the CONNRES message. O MSC thus establishes a temporary call leg to tone server based on the directory number.

With the call leg established tone server plays the selected advertisement to O MSC over the bearer channel that has been set up. O MSC then plays the selected advertisement to S MSC which provides the advertisement to calling party .

Upon completion of the advertisement tone server transmits an anlyzd message with Null parameters to O MSC . Responsive to the anlyzd message O MSC transmits a Release REL message to tone server to tear down the temporary call leg. Tone server responds with an ISUP Release Complete RLC message. O MSC then resumes processing the call to called party by attempting to connect the call to mobile device . O MSC also transmits ringback tones to mobile device through S MSC . The ringback tones may be traditional ringing tones multimedia ringback tones another advertisement or any other type of ringback.

Though not included herein a message diagram analogous to can be drawn showing how selection server of can skip advertisements for a particular call.

Although specific embodiments were described herein the scope of the invention is not limited to those specific embodiments. The scope of the invention is defined by the following claims and any equivalents thereof.

