---

title: Methods and systems for obtaining data from networks of sources
abstract: Methods and systems for obtaining data from a number of distributed sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07929411&OS=07929411&RS=07929411
owner: Cornell Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 07929411
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application 60 721 314 Methods And Systems For Obtaining Data From Networks Of Sources filed on Sep. 28 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made partially with U.S. Government support from the National Science Foundation under grant CCR 0431077. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The problem of efficiently retrieving correlated information from a large number of distributed sources appears in many areas of engineering such as querying from a distributed database content delivery in peer to peer networks or the exchange of local information in a sensor network.

In the literature most of the work on the data distribution problem proposes strategies for either the source coding or the channel coding aspects while enforcing a separation between the two functionalities. It has been shown by Gupta and Kumar that without considering the transmission content peer to peer packet transmission among arbitrarily chosen transmitter receiver pairs in the wireless networking scenario leads to a per node throughput that vanishes as O 1 N where N is the number of nodes in the network. This scaling law may not be as important in sensor applications since it is often necessary for the distributed sensors to convey their local information to a central processor which leads to the so called many to one network.

Unfortunately the many to one network topology can leads to even more restrictive scaling laws on the per node throughput such as the O 1 N scaling performance derived in or the O logN N by utilizing antenna sharing schemes . This is caused by the bottleneck effect that occurs at the last hop towards the data gathering node. Relying on the assumption that sensors observations are increasingly correlated when the density of sensors increases many authors proposed the use of distributed source coding DSC techniques based on the Slepian Wolf encoding for discrete data or Wyner Ziv encoding for continuous data to reduce the aggregate information rate produced by the nodes in a sensor network. Capitalizing on the high data correlation it has been shown that the cross layered optimization of the source coding and transmission scheduling strategies or cooperative transmission schemes can achieve good scaling performances for a large class of sensor data models where the aggregate information rate increases slower than the network capacity. Unfortunately the methodologies used to prove these results do not scale well in terms of complexity or latency which is primarily caused by the need of encoding over long temporal sequences and by the strict sequential decoding structure. Although suboptimal solutions are available the cross layer optimization of the information flow through the network is a complex problem that is left unsolved. Even if they are discussed at all the required transmitter and receiver protocols are often of high complexity and not suitable to be generalized and applied to a random network.

In the multiple access application group testing was proposed as an efficient solution for random access scheduling in packet networks. In this case the information that is resolved through group testing is the presence or absence of a message within the transmission queue of each node. In the framework of these publications the probability of a certain node having a message to transmit is independent and identical from node to node therefore the entire network state can be modeled as a sequence of i.i.d. independent identically distributed Bernoulli random variables with probability p of having a message to transmit much like the modeling of the blood testing problem. In sensor networks an analogous model could arise when unexpected independent events trigger alarms in isolated sensors. Since the outcome of each test belongs to a binary alphabet an obvious lower bound for the number of tests is represented by the joint entropy of the Bernoulli i.i.d. independent identically distributed field H X NH p . In the work mentioned above the group testing strategy was applied only to multiple access scheduling.

There is a need for methods and systems for obtaining data from the sources such as sensor networks. There is also a need for methods and systems for obtaining data from the sources such as sensor networks which correspond to more general data models than the Bernoulli i.i.d. data model.

In one embodiment the method of these teachings for obtaining data from a number of distributed sources distributed sources as used herein includes both sensors communicating to a central receiver and cooperative transmission by distributed sensors as well as other distributed sources includes steps of 

In another embodiment the method of these teachings for obtaining data from a number of distributed sources includes steps of 

This methodology can offer an advantage over polling each sensor individually. The advantage is obtained by incorporating good initial guesses of the state of the group of sensor nodes into the tests. A good set of guesses will lead to a short set of queries on the average.

Embodiments with application to sensor fusion and embodiments that combine the number of channel accesses and compression are also disclosed.

For a better understanding of the present teachings reference is made to the accompanying drawings and detailed description and its scope will be pointed out in the appended claims.

In one embodiment the method of these teachings for obtaining data from a number of distributed sources includes steps of 

In another embodiment the method of these teachings for obtaining data from a number of distributed sources includes steps of 

 a1 selecting a group of the distributed sources a2 selecting a coding rule applied by each member in the group. The coding rule is based on the node local data and possibly on the current step of the algorithm 

In one embodiment the sources are sensors and a system on which the method is applied includes a set of N sensors S s s . . . s performing a sequence of observations X X X . . . X with the joint probability distribution p . . . x x . . . x . In general the observation Xof sensor sbelongs to the symbol alphabet A where Amay be different for each sensor and the X s may be correlated. An embodiment of the system utilizing the method of these teachings is shown in and

In one embodiment the actions are tests or queries performed on the selected group of distributed sources. The group testing strategy is defined by the group testing tree T U F where T is the set of questions asked on each corresponding group actions determined in U and F is the set of possible outcomes or feedback of the tests.

An illustration of the group testing tree T U F is shown in . Each node in the tree represents a test T U where Tis the question that is imposed on sources sensors in group U and each branch extending from the node represents a different feedback response where the feedback Zbelongs to the set F F. The set of feedbacks Fis equivalent to the output alphabet of the feedback channel between the group of sensors Uand the receiver receivers. Ideally having access to each subsequent feedback allows the receiver to refine the observation space A into smaller and smaller subsets until the space is reduced to the set P A as shown in such that X P and the estimate circumflex over X is within the desired distortion.

In one instance the mean square error criterion is utilized in defining the estimate of the data from the distributed sources.

In one embodiment the predetermined criterion comprises obtaining a distortion measure from the estimated data and determining whether the distortion measure is less than or equal to a predetermined distortion constraint.

One embodiment of the testing strategy is the binary tree splitting test strategy which is described below. The binary tree splitting strategy can be generalized as a location based tree splitting or for an m ary response alphabet.

The binary tree splitting protocol initially splits the group of sensors sources into two subgroups of equal size. Similar to the previous strategy each of these subgroups are tested with the questions and feedbacks restricted to the classes T Tand F Fdescribed by Du and Hwang Ding Zhu Du and Frank K. Hwang vol. 12 of World Scientific Pub Co Inc. 2 edition October 1993 . If the outcome of the test results in an erasure an erasure being when both tested subgroups return an outcome of 1 the original group is divided again into two subgroups of the same size where each subgroup is tested separately in the subsequent time slots. The binary splitting process continues until a 0 or 1 is received. In this case the smallest group that is not yet resolved is tested in the following time slot.

As an exemplary embodiment consider a network of 16 nodes as shown in . Let each vertex Udenote a group that consists of sensors within its subtree. In the proposed algorithm the sequence of tests starts from the subgroups of U i.e. Uand U and continues splitting and testing the smaller subgroups each time the larger group cannot be resolved through a single test. If the test on Uresults in either 0 or 1 the system continues on testing the group Usince it is the smallest group that is not yet resolved. However if the test results in an erasure the vertex Ubranches into two subgroups where the group Uis tested next.

In another embodiment of the binary test strategy the strategy is equally applicable to cases where the groups are split into subgroups of unequal size. In practice the splitting of groups can be performed according to the location of the sensors. More specifically let the set of sensors S be randomly distributed within the d d square area and let the sensors be grouped in the order shown in . When the initial group S results in an erasure the network is first split into the L eft and R ight groups according to their locations by equally partitioning the square area. If the testing of group L results in an erasure the L group is split into the U p L group and D own L group and test each of them individually in the subsequent periods. However if the feedback is either 0 or 1 we proceed on testing the next smallest group that is not yet resolved which is R in this case. Assuming that the feedbacks continue to be erasures we proceed on splitting the nodes as shown in into the Left of UL and Right of UL then Up of LUL and Down of LUL . . . etc. In this algorithm it is sufficient for each sensor to know its own location and not the location of others.

Based on the structure of the tree splitting algorithm one can improve upon the original scheme by optimizing over the initial partitioning of the network during the first test. In the binary tree splitting algorithm disclosed above the process is initiated by splitting the network into 2 subgroups and then proceeding with the binary splitting within each group. In this case the testing process initiates from large groups of sensors where the outcome is likely to result in an erasure if the sensors are less correlated. In a further embodiment the number of initial partitioning is optimized such that the network is split directly into 2subgroups where K 1 is optimally chosen. The binary tree splitting algorithm proceeds in each of the initial partitions. In this embodiment the initial group size is adjusted according to the sensor statistics thus avoiding the unnecessary testing that may result from cases where the sensors are less correlated. Then the optimal K that minimizes the expected number of tests EL for each value of p p is found. Details of the optimization are given in Hong Y. W. Scaglione A. On Multiple Access for Correlated Sources A Content Based Group Testing Approach Appendix I of U.S. Provisional Application 60 721 314 which is incorporated by reference herein. See also 

In spite of its simple structure it should be noted that in the binary tree splitting algorithm the operation does not depend on the statistics of the underlying sensor field. Therefore it is applicable to all cases independent of the probability model. In fact in most sensor applications where the data sources are sensors where the statistics of the sensor field are not available beforehand one can utilize the data driven property of the binary tree splitting scheme to efficiently retrieve data from sensor field while estimating the desired statistics on the fly. The estimated statistics can then be used to choose the optimal splitting of the initial group. This results in an adaptive strategy to efficiently retrieve distributed data without the initial knowledge of the sensor field statistics.

In yet another embodiment the m ary group testing strategy the binary tree splitting algorithm disclosed above is generalized by increasing the number of questions asked actions during each test. For binary sources the questions are restricted to the class T T while the feedback informs the receiver with the 0 1 e information. In the case of m ary alphabets the questions are restricted to the extended class Tand extend the feedback responses set to F.

In deriving the group testing strategy for the m ary case an alternative approach can be taken where the m ary message is considered as a sequence of binary alphabets Xi x x . . . x where b logm . The first bit xrepresents the most significant bit MSB that quantizes the samples into two levels. The second bit represents the quantization of the samples within each level indicated by x. Proceeding in this manner the bits represent the quantization in the order of their significance as shown in . With high sensor correlation we shall expect large sets of close by sensors to observe identical symbols at the most significant bit b such as the groups U Uand Ushown in . The sensors within each contiguous group are again partitioned by the next significant bit also into contiguous sets. Continuing in this fashion one can efficiently resolve the sensor s observations by iteratively imposing the binary group testing methodology on each partitioned group. This results in a nested testing procedure where the level of nesting depends on the significance of each bit.

When the observations are correlated a central processor is able to gain partial knowledge of the untested sensors through the tests on other subsets of the network. Consequently one can adjust the group testing strategy by incorporating the joint statistics of the distributed observations. For example in the case where sensors are highly correlated a set of m sensors tested to have the observation c A may imply that the whole network of sensors observed c with high probability. More generally except for the case where sensors have identical observations it is possible that a particular pattern among sensors occurs with high probability. This case is not accounted for in the classical group testing formulation. Furthermore in sensor applications the set of admissible tests are increased compared to the classical scenario since the intelligence of the sensors are capable of answering a larger class of questions T. The feedback F can also be improved by incorporating advanced physical layer designs such as using multiple thresholds at the detector to detect multiple defects in a group.

Although the above described embodiments of the method of these teachings relate to one central receiver the method of these teachings also applies to distributed sensor networks and transmission method such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 946 439 which is incorporated by reference herein. In those embodiments each distributed source sensor in the network acts also as a receiver and collects all the data exactly as the central collector would in the embodiment described before. The use of this decentralized method requires broadcast communication capability among the nodes. The method of these teachings includes the following additional steps shown together with the steps previously described 

An embodiment of a system of these teachings capable of practicing the above described method is shown in .

In one embodiment the sensors operate under a slotted system and the nodes are synchronized to the transmission slots. The testing of sensors in group testing terminology is equivalent to assigning a transmission time slot to the specified group of sensors. Within the allocated time slot the sensors cooperatively transmit a collective feedback information to the receiver node. The receivers then process the next tested group by visiting the nodes in the group testing tree T U F through the route determined by the feedbacks.

The feedback property of the group testing protocol enables a system architecture that extends from the centralized scenario to a completely distributed scenario.

In the centralized application the feedback is received only at the central processor. In this case each sensor acts only as a dummy receiver where the group testing protocol is only programmed at the central node as detailed in the first described embodiment of the method of these teachings.

On the opposite end the group testing protocol can be implicitly implemented at each individual sensor and the feedback can be distributed to all sensors using any form of network broadcast. The knowledge of the sequence of feedbacks leads each sensor down the correct testing path within the tree T U F and determines whether or not the sensor is scheduled to transmit in the present time slot. This flexibility in the system design is a major advantage of group testing since it enables a totally distributed design.

The embodiments of the system of these teachings described below include a simple implementation of an OR channel. In the simple implementation the sensors act as simple pulse transmission devices and assume that the receiver acquires the feedback by simply using an energy detector. During each transmission time slot two orthogonal channels are allocated to the transmission of each sensor within the tested group. The questions in the class T T are imposed upon the group. In the first channel CH all the nodes that observed 1 within the group U will broadcast their feedback simultaneously indicating that there is at least one sensor within the group that observed the symbol otherwise they will all remain silent. Similarly all nodes that observed will respond in channel CH . If the observations of these sensors are identical a feedback of 0 or 1 as shown in will be received specifying the symbol that was observed by all the sensors within the group thus resolving the content of these sensors. However if the observations of the sensors consist of different values the feedback will result in an erasure i.e. the e feedback shown in and a subgroup of the sensors will be required to retransmit in the following time slot.

The signaling on the two orthogonal channels can be constructed through the cooperative transmission of the sensors. Two possible embodiments are 1 the direct transmission protocol as in the first embodiment of the method of these teachings and 2 the cooperative relaying protocol as in the preceding embodiment of the method of these teachings.

In the first case each sensor within the tested group transmits directly to all receivers through the wireless broadcast medium i.e. for sin the tested group U a signal 

is transmitted according to the observation Xand its complement where p t and p t represent the orthogonal waveforms corresponding to the two channels. In this case the sensor s S receives the mixture of signals emitted directly from the sensors in U. At the receiver end an energy detector is implemented on both channels. The outputs 0 1 1 0 and 1 1 provides the receiver with the 0 1 e feedback shown in .

In the direct transmission strategy it is necessary for the sensors to transmit with a sufficiently large power in order to achieve a reliable reception which limits the application to sensors located in a small area. Hence a relaying form of information delivery would clearly provide an advantage over the direct transmission strategy. However the multi hop broadcasting protocols derived for packet networks do not scale well in a large scale sensor application. Furthermore it is particularly important to avoid the heavy duty networking and MAC protocols used in packet networks since the feedback is on a symbol by symbol basis. An embodiment that meets these needs is a symbol by symbol physical layer broadcasting scheme based on what the Opportunistic Large Array OLA described in US patent Application Publication No. 2005 0113084 for U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 946 439 which is incorporated by reference herein in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 504 845 also incorporated by reference herein and in Anna Scaglione and Yao Win Hong Opportunistic large arrays cooperative transmission in wireless multihop ad hoc networks to reach far distances IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing Vol. 51 No. 8 August 2003 pp. 2082 2092 also incorporated by reference herein.

Let U be the group of sensors tested in the present transmission period and let U si U Xi 0 U. Similarly let U si U Xi 1. The transmission is initiated by having each sensor Si U transmit a signal as in the above embodiment. In this case the group of sensors U will serve as the leaders of the cooperative broadcast in channel CH while the sensors in group U are leaders in channel CH. Each cooperative broadcasting is operated independently in the two channels as described below. The aggregate signal is received in CH after the transmission of the leaders U i.e. for receiver si S U. Based on the received signal each receiver performs a Neyman Pearson detection to determine the presence or absence of a transmitted pulse. At this point the performance of the system is equivalent to the direct transmission scheme. However instead of determining the feedback information based on the present decision each sensor that detected the presence of a pulse relays the information by retransmitting the same pulse.

The retransmission of the relaying nodes will then increase the energy of the received signal at the nodes that have not yet detected the pulse. In this case the signal received from the source is negligible compared to the relaying signals and the newly informed sensors form a second layer of relay. Continuing in this fashion the retransmission of the relaying nodes will cause an avalanche of signaling that will spread the feedback throughout the entire network given that the power of the transmission or the density of the sensors are sufficiently large .

For a sufficiently dense network and a properly chosen detection threshold the broadcast signal can be received reliably at all nodes within the network. Instead if no pulse is detected by any of the receiving sensors it is assumed that Uis an empty set and the test will proceed on a subsequently chosen group. The aggregate signal strength of both the sources and the relays provide the receiver with a reliable detection of the feedback information while maintaining the low latency of a symbol based transmission system. Certainly one may adjust the group testing strategy for different channel models and incorporate other detection and estimation strategies coupled with optimized transmission.

Consider the case where N sensors are distributed in a regular grid within a d d square area. In the exemplary embodiment presented below two examples of the binary field are considered as shown in where each sensor observes the local binary information according to the illustrated figures. The field described in is ideal for the location based splitting as defined above since the partitioning of the area is consistent with the realization of the sensor field. In this case the number of tests necessary to resolve the field is equal to 7. However the field illustrated in requires a much higher number tests which depends on the distribution of the sensors. In the first experiment we look at a network of N 36 sensors where the sensors are distributed in a 6 by 6 regular grid as shown in . Let each sensor observe its local information according to the image shown in . In we show the performance of the non cooperative and cooperative transmission schemes using the receiver model specified hereinabove. The channel coefficients hfor all i and j are assumed to be independent Rayleigh coefficients with variance which are randomly determined for each trial but fixed over different experiments. In this simulation the noise variance is set to No 0.002 and the detection threshold is set to 0.01. Through the sequence of feedbacks each sensor will have a local reconstruction of the sensor field degraded by the channel errors. In and the reconstruction with no error detection is illustrated in a gray scale image with each block representing the average reconstruction over all sensors and over 10 different sets of channel coefficients. While both schemes perform relatively well the cooperative case is slightly better than the non cooperative case. The average number of tests required for the cooperative scheme is 9 while 11 are required for the non cooperative scheme indicating a higher error probability in the latter case. However if a larger number of tests are required for the detected image as it is for a significant difference may be observed between the two schemes due to the error propagation that results from the sequential selection of group tests. This effect is shown in for No 0.001 which shows that the cooperative scheme provides us with a much more reliable transmission channel than the non cooperative scheme.

In group testing protocols the control and feedback information required to effectively schedule the collective transmission of sensor observations are defined. In this case the error in the received feedback causes erroneous state transitions within the group testing process and it propagates over the subsequent tests. To overcome this effect two standard methods can be applied for error control 1 Error Detection with Retransmission Request and 2 Forward Error Correction Coding. In the error detection scheme an error detection bit is imposed after every m feedback transmissions and repeat the corresponding sequence of group tests whenever an error is detected. In the second case error correction codes are imposed upon every block of feedbacks to implement forward error correction. A plausible approach is to design a code that is able to correct the earliest error within the block. Assuming that the subsequent feedbacks are not in error one can recover from the erroneous state transitions that may occur due to sequential structure of the group tests. Even when an ambiguity occurs in the subsequent sequence of feedbacks a maximum likelihood decoder can be implemented to obtain the optimal reconstruction much like the well known Viterbi decoder.

In a further embodiment of the method of these teachings the method of these teachings can be applied to the efficient exchange of messages required for data fusion. Consider the binary hypothesis testing problem for a network of N sensors S s . . . s and let X X . . . X be the set of observations where the random variable Xrepresents the observation made by sensor si and that the observations are mutually independent conditioned on the hypothesis. Initially each sensor makes a local binary decision for the hypothesis testing problem H X

For distributed sensorembodiments where each distributed source sensor in the selected group acts also as a receiver the method of these teachings for efficient exchange of messages required for data fusion includes the following additional steps shown together with the steps previously described 

A flow chart of the above described embodiment of the method of these teachings is shown in . The parley section includes where each distributed sensor source acts as a receiver transmitter determining an estimate or an inference on the data that all the sensors in the group have. See P. F. Swaszek and P. Willett Parley as an approach to distributed detection vol. 31 no. 1 pp. 447 457 January 1995 incorporated by reference herein. 

Details of the data fusion applications of these teachings are given in Hong Y. W. Scaglione A. Varshney P. K. Data Driven Communications for Consensus Decision Making in Wireless Sensor Networks Appendix II of U.S. Provisional Application 60 721 314 which is incorporated by reference herein.

As previously described herein above a single channel is assigned to a group of sensors that have a highly predictable set of messages to transmit as opposed to assigning a channel to each individual sensor in the conventional case. The guesses or tests imposed on the sensors during each channel access serves as a querying strategy that schedules the transmissions and the response that is emitted from the sensors. The response to each query or guess will serve as a successive refinement for the messages at each sensor which will eventually allow the sensors to pinpoint the true value of X. The process continues until the messages at all nodes are resolved.

For the m th round of message exchange this embodiment of the method of these teachings specifies a guess or a query on a subset of messages U U u . . . u during each channel access and the sensors corresponding to these messages will respond collectively through the cooperative transmission channel. The output of the channel during the l th channel access of the m th iteration is denoted by Z. The sequence of outputs Z Z . . . Z will constitute a data representation of the message u where Lis a random variable depending on the realizations of u i.e. variable length encoding. If the queries take into account the statistics of the data this embodiment of the method of these teachings can achieve compression gains in the data representation Zand thus reducing the number of channel accesses. For brevity of notation the superscript m is omitted in the following derivations.

During each channel access the guess or query is that a group of messages U U all take the same value b where b 0 1 represents the most probable hypothesis. Consider the case where each sensor sthat corresponds to a message in U i.e. U U will respond with a logical 1 if u b and it will respond with a logical 0 if u b. The aggregate output Z will be equal to the logical OR of the responses i.e. the output of the channel is Z vu b.

This is referred to as the noiseless OR channel. With this specific channel one can infer that u b for all u U if and only if Z 0 otherwise the realization of the messages in the set U are not resolved through the query and a smaller subset of U should be chosen for the subsequent transmissions.

During the m th round of the method shown in a set of messages uis generated at each node and the probability pcan be deduced from the previous rounds of information exchange. Based on the probabilities p the method determines an action A that specifies the group of sensors U that are scheduled to transmit and determines the predicted hypothesis b that is used as a guess of the sensors realizations. In other words the strategy first computes the optimal detection b based on the local decisions exchanged in the previous rounds. Then a group U is chosen and tested through the binary OR. The new channel output will be appended to the previous sequence of outputs and a new estimate of uis obtained. The inner loop of the method continues until the estimate falls within the distortion D and the process is terminated when the decisions converge.

Z Z . . . Z represents the output of the channel determined up to the l 1 th transmission and z z . . . z represents the realization of Z. In one embodiment the maximum entropy criterion is used to generate the action that is output from the function GTMA p z shown in . In general the action can be an arbitrary function of the local observations X. However in the above embodiment the action corresponds to the group of sensors U that is tested during the channel access and the estimate of the underlying hypothesis H. Given a certain realization of X the values of U and b determine the scheduling of the sensors and the output of the cooperative channel access.

In one embodiment the maximum entropy criterion is utilized to derive the action A for each of the channel accesses in the decentralized detection scenario. Specifically the action A is chosen such that the channel output contains the maximum entropy i.e. the action of the l th channel access is argmax z .

In other words the action selected above yields the most unpredictable output from the cooperative channel. For each outer loop of the method shown in the message exchanges are initiated with the action Ao which is derived with the conditional probability. For further detailed description see Hong Y. W. Scaglione A. Varshney P. K. Data Driven Communications for Consensus Decision Making in Wireless Sensor Networks Appendix II of U.S. Provisional Application 60 721 314 which is incorporated by reference herein. 

While the embodiment related to a noiseless OR channel it should be noted that the present invention is not limited only to that channel. As stated above if Abe the action taken during the l th test and for a wireless sensor network with N sensors S s . . . s and the set of observations X X . . . X where Xis the random variable representing the observation made at sensor s a testing strategy determines a sequence of actions or tests A A . . . Athat is performed on X. A data representation of the observations X is formed by the sequence of test outcomes or cooperative channel outputs Z Z . . . Z where Zis the outcome of the action Aas shown in .

I X Y represents the mutual information between the random variables X and Y . In some of the embodiments in order to maximize the upper bound it is desirable to select the action for each channel access to maximize the normalized mutual information defined as

In one instance the action Afor the k th test is taken to be that action that maximizes the normalized mutual information evaluated at the previous iteration that is where .

A more detailed description can be found in Hong Y. W. Scaglione A. Varshney P. K. Information Theoretic Approach for Data Driven Communications in Sensor Networks Appendix III of U.S. Provisional Application 60 721 314 which is by reference incorporated herein.

One embodiment of a receiver at a receiving node of these teachings is shown in . Referring to a received signal is provided in digital form from the receiver to a processor . The processor can comprise one or many processing units. A computer usable medium that has computer readable code embodied therein for applying the methods of these teachings to receive and in some embodiments decide whether to retransmit the received information. In one embodiment the computer readable code causes the processor to determine whether to retransmit the received information and to generate an enabling or disabling signal which is provided to the transmitter . The processor and the computer usable medium are operatively connected through interconnection means such as but not limited to a bus . It should be noted that equivalently the same functions shown in could be accomplished by application specific or field programmable components.

In one embodiment of the system of these teachings a source transmitting node shown schematically in includes a transmitter a transmitter as used herein may include a transmitting component such as but not limited to an antenna . Each receiving node one of which is shown schematically in includes a receiver a receiver as used herein may include a receiving component or sensor such as but not limited to an antenna means for applying a predetermined retransmission criterion such as computing means and a transmitter . In one embodiment the receiver means for applying a predetermined retransmission criterion and the transmitter could be integrated in one system hereinafter referred to as a transceiver.

Elements and components described herein may be further divided into additional components or joined together to form fewer components for performing the same functions.

Each computer program within the scope of the claims below may be implemented in any programming language such as assembly language machine language a high level procedural programming language or an object oriented programming language. The programming language may be a compiled or interpreted programming language.

Each computer program may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a computer readable storage device for execution by a computer processor. Method steps of the invention may be performed by a computer processor executing a program tangibly embodied on a computer readable medium to perform functions of the invention by operating on input and generating output.

Common forms of computer readable or usable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CDROM any other optical medium punched cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Although the teachings has been described with respect to various embodiments it should be realized these teachings is also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

