---

title: Carbon nanotube growth on metallic substrate using vapor phase catalyst delivery
abstract: A chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method using a vapor phase catalyst of directly growing aligned carbon nanotubes on a metal surfaces. The method allows for fabrication of carbon nanotube containing structures that exhibit a robust carbon nanotube metal junction without a pre-growth application of solid catalytic materials to the metal surface or the use of solder or adhesives in a multi-step fabrication process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207658&OS=08207658&RS=08207658
owner: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
number: 08207658
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060825
---
The present invention was made with financial support at least in part by the National Science Foundation under grant number DMR 0117792. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to carbon nanotubes and more particularly to direct growth of carbon nanotubes on a metal surface.

Carbon nanotubes have captured the attention of materials scientists and technologists due to their unique one dimensional structure by virtue of which they acquire superior electrical mechanical and chemical properties. For example due to their high current carrying capacity about 10Amp cm they are envisioned as key interconnect components of future nanoelectronic devices. Though vertically aligned carbon nanotube growth on SiOsubstrates and their surface selective growth mechanism has been reported extensively in recent years carbon nanotubes could not be directly grown on metallic substrates from the vapor phase without providing catalyst islands on the substrate. This posses a major limitation on various nanotube based applications such as for example use as active elements in field emission displays sensors and other electronic devices.

Articles describe aligned nanotube growth on porous Indium Tin Oxide ITO coated silicon Si substrate where the growth is on Si and not on ITO and the multi step post production process of using carbon nanotube transfer technology enabled by open ended carbon nanotube mats on solder material. See S. Agrawal et al. Adv. Funct. Mat. 15 1922 2005 and L. Zu et al. Nano Lett. 6 243 2006 . These methods result in carbon nanotubes grown on silicon or ITO or in carbon nanotubes that are indirectly attached to a substrate with a solder adhesive. However these are complicated and multi step processes and nanotubes grown on indium tin oxide ITO substrates have disadvantages due to the brittle and fragile nature of ITO. To break this substrate limitation for nanotube growth it is important to either develop new processes which will render direct growth of aligned carbon nanotubes on metals or identify suitable metals metal alloys on which nanotubes can be grown easily with the available technologies at hand.

An embodiment of the invention provides a structure comprising a substrate having a metal surface and a plurality of carbon nanotubes directly grown on the metal surface of the substrate wherein the plurality of carbon nanotubes are substantially aligned in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the substrate and pre deposited catalyst islands are substantially absent at a base or a tip of said plurality of carbon nanotubes.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for making carbon nanotubes comprising providing a substrate having a metal surface providing a vapor phase mixture comprised of a nanotube forming precursor and a nanotube growth catalyst onto the metal surface of the substrate and directly growing the carbon nanotubes on the metal surface of the substrate such that the carbon nanotubes are substantially aligned in a direction perpendicular to said metal surface of the substrate

The present inventors have developed a method of directly growing aligned carbon nanotubes on a metal surface. Directly grown carbon nanotubes are carbon nanotubes that are grown on a substrate rather than soldered or otherwise attached to a substrate after growth. This direct carbon nanotube growth is accomplished without pre deposited nanotube growth catalyst islands adhesives or solder applied to the metal surface prior to initiation of nanotube growth. Thus pre deposited nanotube growth catalyst islands solder or adhesives are absent from the carbon nanotube containing structures fabricated by the method. A substantial absence of pre deposited catalyst islands in carbon nanotube containing structures means that pre deposited catalytic islands are not present in the carbon nanotube containing structures except for catalyst material incorporated into the carbon nanotubes from the vapor phase during growth. No solid catalytic islands exist on the surface of the substrate before CVD growth and catalyst islands are absent from the tips of most carbon nanotubes.

One preferred embodiment of the invention provides a structure comprising a substrate with a metal surface and a plurality of carbon nanotubes directly grown on the metal surface of the substrate. The plurality of carbon nanotubes are substantially aligned in a direction perpendicular to the surface of the substrate and pre deposited catalyst islands adhesive and solder are substantially absent from the base or tip of the plurality of carbon nanotubes.

Another preferred embodiment of the invention provides a method of making carbon nanotubes comprising providing a substrate having a metal surface and providing a nanotube source gas onto the metal surface of the substrate. The nanotube source gas preferably comprises a mixture of nanotube forming precursor gas such as xylenes and a growth catalyst such as ferrocene. However other suitable gases or a single source gas may be used instead. For example other aromatic carbon source gases such as n hexane alcohols etc. and metal catalyst gases such as nickelocene or cobaltocene may be used.

The method further provides for directly growing the carbon nanotubes on the metal surface of the substrate. The directly grown carbon nanotubes are substantially aligned in a direction perpendicular to the metal surface of the substrate. The metal surface is preferably a nonmagnetic metal alloy such as INCONEL 600. However other suitable magnetic or nonmagnetic metal or metal alloy surfaces may be used instead such as other INCONEL alloys including the INCONEL 718 and 750 alloys. Other alloys including comprising Al Cu Co Cr Fe Ni Pt Ta Ti or Zn alloys may also be used if they support direct nanotube growth.

Without wishing to be bound by a particular theory it is believed that for growing vertically aligned carbon nanotubes on smooth substrates formation of a high density catalyst particle from the vapor phase on the surface is needed. This is believed to be possible if there is minimal surface diffusion of the catalyst particle. It is believed that there is minimal or no surface diffusion of the iron catalyst particles from the ferrocene catalyst gas when INCONEL is used as the substrate. Thus other low surface diffusion metals may also be used as a substrate surface. The metal surface is preferably inert to carbon nanotube growth and is not a nanotube growth catalyst. Instead the nanotube growth catalyst is provided from the vapor phase.

The entire substrate may be comprised of the metal that comprises the metal surface on which the carbon nanotubes are directly grown. Alternatively the substrate may be comprised of one or more materials other than the metal that comprises the metal surface on which the carbon nanotubes are directly grown as long as at least some portion of a surface of the substrate has been coated with said suitable metal. The one or more materials coated with the suitable metal may be but do not have to be unable to support direct carbon nanotube growth with a vapor phase catalyst. Examples of such substrate materials include gold copper and silicon but other materials may also be used. Thus the substrate may comprise a bulk portion which is unable to support direct carbon nanotube growth coated with a layer or thin film of suitable metal.

The embodiments of the present invention exhibit several advantages over previously existing methods of carbon nanotube growth. First the method of the embodiments of the present invention is a single step resulting in a plurality of directly grown substantially aligned nanotubes on a metal surface of a substrate. Second this plurality of directly grown substantially aligned nanotubes is uniform over a large area such as a more than one millimeter square metal substrate. Third the plurality of directly grown substantially aligned nanotubes can be grown to a desired thicknesses i.e. heights ranging from 1 m to 500 m. Fourth the plurality of directly grown substantially aligned nanotubes can be grown on metal substrates of varying geometrical shapes.

In a preferred aspect of the present invention the metal surface of a substrate comprises INCONEL 600. The reported composition of INCONEL 600 is 72 nickel Ni 16 chromium Cr and 8 iron Fe . Other suitable metals may be used instead such as other INCONEL alloys or other Ni Cr Fe alloys. The use of a suitable metal surface makes inclusion of a solid nanotube growth catalyst material on the metal surface such as a metal nanoparticle layer unnecessary. Thus such a layer is substantially absent from the preferred embodiments of the present invention. The substantial absence of such a layer results in a more robust connection between the metal surface and the directly grown carbon nanotubes. Due to the strength of the nanotube metal surface connection the carbon nanotube structures can be handled with ease. Further the nanotube INCONEL 600 junction shows Ohmic behavior over a wide range of temperatures 25 K 300 K .

In preferred embodiments of the present invention substantially aligned carbon nanotubes are directly grown on a metal surface in a single step process. This process is preferably carried out through a CVD method that delivers a nanotube source gas comprising a mixture of nanotube forming precursor and nanotube growth catalyst in compound or elemental form from the gas phase.

The CVD method for direct growth of carbon nanotubes without predeposition of metal catalysts on the metal surface will now be described. Nanotube growth is performed by exposing a metal surface comprising INCONEL 600 to vapor mixtures comprising xylenes CH a nanotube forming precursor and ferrocene Fe CH a nanotube catalyst at about 600 to 1100 C. preferably at about 700 to 800 C. Ferrocene preferably comprises 0.001 to 1 of the ferrocene xylenes mixture. However other suitable sources gases and temperatures may be used instead. 0.2 mm thick sheets of INCONEL 600 were used as the metal growth surface in the examples illustrated in . Ferrocene was dissolved in xylenes which preferably contains different isomers at concentrations of about 0.01 g ml the mixture was pre heated co evaporated and fed into the CVD chamber with a carrier gas mixture comprised of argon Ar 85 and hydrogen H 15 . The gas flow rate of the carrier gas nanotube source gas mixture was 100 standard cubic centimeter per minute s.c.c.m. . Prolonged growth at a temperature of 770 C. produced films of densely packed multiwalled carbon nanotubes on the INCONEL 600 surfaces. Aligned nanotubes readily grew on the INCONEL 600 surfaces in a direction normal to the growth surface. Uniform vertically aligned nanotube films having a height ranging from 1 m to 400 m can be obtained easily using these substrates.

An additional embodiment of the present invention provides a coating of INCONEL 600 on any other material conductive or otherwise for example gold beryllium copper silicon etc. which is not otherwise suitable for nanotube growth for use as the substrate. The use of such a substrate in the method of this preferred embodiment results in substantially aligned directly grown nanotubes on the INCONEL 600 surface regardless of the material located beneath the INCONEL coating.

For integration of carbon nanotubes grown on conductive substrates into technological applications which include but are not limited to thermal management microelectronics and through wafer vertical interconnect assemblies it is of utmost importance that the nanotube substrate interface is mechanically strong and electrically transparent. For example electrically end contacted dense bundles of nanotubes can be used as materials which electrically contact different metal levels and or portions of metal layers in electronic device metallization such as short or local interconnects and via fill i.e. plug structures for giga scale integration for sub 50 nm semiconductor device structures. The nanotubes described above are contacted on their ends not on their sides by the metal substrate surface which can function as an electrode or interconnect.

Electrical characterization measurement of current versus voltage behavior of the nanotube metal junction has been conducted on substantially aligned nanotubes directly grown on an INCONEL 600 substrate. The electrical characterization was conducted at various temperatures. One of the important features of the INCONEL 600 nanotube junction was that the current versus voltage behavior was found to be Ohmic over a wide temperature range 25 K 300 K .

The resistance of directly grown substantially aligned nanotube pillar structures on INCONEL 600 substrate shown in the inset in was also measured using a micromanipulator probe top contact tip size about 10 m . The average total resistance including the contact resistance and the fact that the probe did not touch more than 2 of the nanotubes was found to be about soon over many samples having a 70 70 micron pattern size and 50 micron height suggesting good electrical contact between the nanotubes and the metal substrate. As shown in the resistance determined from the slope of the I V plot was 387 . Thus nanotube structures with resistance of 500 ohms or less for an area of 70 microns square are provided.

The above described nanotube structures having a good electrical contact between the nanotubes and the metal surface of the substrate can be used in double layer capacitors also called supercapacitors . A typical double layer capacitor comprises two electrodes separated by a separator soaked in an electrolyte solution.

The capacitive behavior of a double layer capacitor fabricated using two nanotube structures as electrodes was measured. Both nanotube structures used for this measurement had INCONEL 600 as the substrate. shows the schematic of the setup used for measuring the electrochemical and capacitance properties of these electrodes in a two electrode system using 6 M potassium hydroxide KOH solution as the electrolyte. The electrodes and were sandwiched in a Swagelok type stainless steel test cell with a Whatman filter paper immersed in the electrolyte as the separator . Cyclic voltammetry and galvanostatic charge discharge measurements were carried out using a Potentiostat Galvanostat EG G Princeton Applied Research Model 273A .

The directly grown substantially aligned nanotube structures of the present invention can be used in robust field emission devices. A typical field emission device is comprised of an electron emitting material such as carbon nanotubes that emits electrons when a potential is applied to the material. In optical display type of field emission devices an electron sensitive phosphor is located across a gap from the electron emitting material. The electron emitting material may be arranged in a selectively activatable pixel array. The phosphor emits radiation such as visible light UV or IR radiation in areas being impacted by the emitted electrons from activated pixels. A voltage source is used to generate the electron emission from selected pixels by applying voltage to the selected pixels of the array.

For the field emission measurements a metal anode with an adjustable separation distance was positioned parallel to the top surface of the substantially aligned nanotubes directly grown on an INCONEL 600 substrate. The spacing between the metal anode and the nanotubes was adjusted to about 30 m. The field emission measurements were performed under a vacuum of about 2.2 10Torr by applying a voltage from 0 210 V between the nanotubes on the INCONEL 600 substrate and the metal anode and measuring the resulting current.

Further this demonstration of the immediate and direct application of the directly grown aligned nanotube structures as field emission devices suggests that such devices may be constructed without any post production treatment or additional complicated fabrication process.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The description was chosen in order to explain the principles of the invention and its practical application. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

