---

title: Fastener for a viscous material container evacuator and method
abstract: A viscous material container evacuator comprises a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container; and at least one hinged closure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container; and at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container. A method to secure a closure of a viscous material container evacuator, comprises activating a motor drive shaft to drive a connected threaded shaft into a complimentary threaded channel of a clamp block that comprises an opposing nub wall; and driving the threaded shaft to impose upon a first lug of an evacuator and to foreshorten a distance between a head of the threaded shaft and the opposing nub to impose the nub against a second lug of a closure to secure the lugs together to secure the container.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07793802&OS=07793802&RS=07793802
owner: Momentive Performance Materials
number: 07793802
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
This application is a continuation in part of Stanton et al. Viscous Material Feed System and Method Ser. No. 11 532 334 filed 15 Sep. 2006.

The invention relates to a fastener for a container evacuator and a method in particular for a drum evacuator for pressing silicone gum or other viscous material from a container to a continuous compounding system.

In a compounding system a viscous material is fed to a processing line where feed is mixed and additives are injected in proportions to produce a customized product. The feed material for these processes can be delivered in various containers to the compounding site. When delivered the material must be removed from the container for processing. For example a compounding system can require emptying material such as silicone gum from drums or similar containers. However the feed material may be very viscous and resistant to flow and hence resistant to removal from the delivery container.

Some emptying processes use a plunger to drive through a container content to express the content for further processing. A considerable amount of pressure is needed in these processes to express a viscous material such as a silicone gum. The high expressing force exposes the materials container to very high mechanical stress. For reasons of weight and expense the containers are usually designed with very thin walls and a structure that is just sufficient to avoid damage to the container during transport. The container is not designed to withstand stress imposed during the emptying operation and the high pressure developed during an emptying operation can easily burst a container structure.

Reinforcing split metal sleeves or half shells can be placed around a container during an emptying operation. However the mounting and closing off of the sleeves and half shells can be very complicated operations requiring considerable manual labor. Another disadvantage is that the sleeves or half shells must be adapted in an exact manner to the outside container dimensions thus sometimes requiring an inventory of sleeves or half shells to accommodate various sized containers.

Accordingly there is a need to facilitate the removal of a viscous feed material from a container particularly removal of a viscous feed material such a viscous silicone from a delivery container such as a drum.

The invention provides an improved viscous material container evacuator and method to remove viscous material from a delivery container to a processing system. The invention is describable as a viscous material container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged closure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container and at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container.

In an embodiment the invention is a method to secure a closure of a viscous material container evacuator comprising activating a motor drive shaft to drive a connected threaded shaft into a complimentary threaded channel of a clamp block that comprises an opposing nub wall and driving the threaded shaft to impose the nub upon a first lug of an evacuator and to foreshorten a distance between a head of the threaded shaft and the opposing nub to impose the nub against a second lug of a closure to secure the lugs together to secure the container.

Another embodiment of the invention is viscous material processing system comprising a viscous material feed system comprising a viscous material container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from a container held within the evacuator chamber and enclosable by hinged closures that define the chamber the closures securable by at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container and a viscous material compounding system that receives material expressed from the feed system.

Another embodiment is a viscous material feed system comprising a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container held within the evacuator chamber and at least one hinged closure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container and at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container by the container evacuator and a cutting apparatus that meters material from the feed tube to a processing system.

And another embodiment is a viscous material feed method comprising placing a viscous silicone gum containing drum into a material extracting apparatus securing closure of the material extracting apparatus around the drum by activating a motor drive shaft to drive a connected threaded shaft into a complimentary threaded channel of a clamp block that comprises an opposing nub wall and driving the threaded shaft to impose upon a first lug of closure of the apparatus and to foreshorten a distance between a head of the threaded shaft and the opposing nub to impose the nub against a second lug of a closure of the apparatus to secure the lugs together and evacuating viscous material from the drum by driving a plunger through the drum to express the silicone gum a viscous material compounding process.

Another embodiment is a viscous material container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container and a plunger axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber to express material from the container at least one hinged closure that closes to define the chamber and to securely enclose the container at least one motor activated fastener that secures the closure around the container and a hydraulic system that powers the motor comprising a hydraulic pressure supply and a relief cartridge that controls the pressure supply to activate the motor by diverting pressure supply from the motor when a set point pressure is attained.

And another embodiment is a method of controlling a battery of hydraulically operated fasteners to a viscous material container evacuator comprising setting a set point pressure for each fastener of the battery supplying an activating hydraulic fluid pressure to each fastener and diverting the applied pressure from each fastener as the set point for that fastener is attained.

The invention relates to the handling of a viscous material such as a silicone gum. Silicone gum includes a viscous silicone or polysiloxane or organopolysiloxane that has the chemical formula RSiO where R organic groups such as methyl ethyl and phenyl. These materials typically comprise an inorganic silicon oxygen backbone . . . Si O Si O Si O . . . with attached organic side groups which can be four coordinate. In some cases organic side groups can be used to link two or more of these Si O backbones together.

By varying the Si O chain lengths side groups and crosslinking silicones can be synthesized with a wide variety of properties and compositions. They can vary in consistency from liquid to gel to rubber to hard plastic. Silicone rubber or silicone gum is a silicone elastomer typically having high temperature properties. Silicone rubber offers resistance to extreme temperatures being able to operate normally from minus 100 C. to plus 500 C. In such conditions tensile strength elongation tear strength and compression set can be superior to conventional rubbers.

A silicone gum can be extruded or molded into custom shapes and designs such as tubes strips solid cord or custom profiles within size restrictions specified by a manufacturer. Cord can be joined to make O Rings and extruded profiles can also be joined to make up seals.

It is desirable to provide a viscous feed system that accurately and efficiently processes viscous materials such as silicone gum for use in various applications. However these materials can be highly resistant to flow highly adhering highly cohering and or shear thickening and consequently difficult to handle. Accuracy of a packaging process and or accuracy of a process of obtaining a defined quantity of such material for example in a continuous process is costly when substantial time is required for cutting or separating of a quantity of the material from a larger quantity. Also it is costly and wasteful to have to clean processing equipment on a frequent basis when the fluid material sticks to a cutting tool or instrument also it is costly and disadvantageous when an incorrect amount of material is used in a downstream process.

A material evacuation process exerts substantial force against a container wall to threaten rupture of the container. Both the evacuator and any fastener to the evacuator closures must be robustly capable of securing closure against the substantial force. The invention provides a secure closure with a fastener that can with stand high forces exerted on a container wall during material evacuation. The fastener can include a hydraulic motor that drives a lock mechanism that includes a threaded shaft and a clamp block with a nub and a threaded channel that accepts the threaded shaft. The motor drives the threaded shaft to foreshorten the distance between a first closure lug and a lug on a second closure or on the evacuator wall to enclose the container for evacuation. Also an embodiment of the fastener addresses problems of misalignment between the drive shaft and threaded shaft that arise on account of part tolerance divergence and operational wear.

In this application the term play means movement or space for movement as of mechanical parts. A degree of play means a tolerance that permits relative movement between parts without disengagement. A reference to back means left on a drawing or drawings and a reference to forward means right on the drawing or drawings.

Features of the invention will become apparent from the drawings and following detailed discussion which by way of example without limitation describe preferred embodiments of the invention.

A preferred invention embodiment shown in the drawings illustrates the invention as a process to compound silicone gum into a base for forming articles. In the drawings is a schematic top view representation and is a schematic side view representation of a material processing system showing an integrated feed system and compounding system . The feed system includes a material extracting apparatus MEA conveyor and chute . and are elevation views of the MEA and is a cut away side sectional view of a section of the MEA . The MEA includes container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and floor scale . The integrated feed system is controllably connected to controller . is a schematic side view of compounding system . As shown in and compounding system includes mixer roll mill conveyor belt and compounder .

The MEA serves to express the viscous material from a container to the compounding system . In typical operations 55 gallon steel drums from a pallet are dumped into totes and the totes approx. 80 pounds each are dumped into a Banbury mixer. However manually maneuvering drums from pallets can cause back and shoulder strains and injuries. In a preferred compounding operation of the invention with respect to and operation commences with delivery of a pallet of four drums of gum. While the container can be any material holding enclosure the drawings embodiment is a feed system including a method of evacuating a silicone gum containing drum. A suitable drum in the embodiment has full openable ends and has a cylindrical wall of steel fiberboard or other material structure for transporting a silicone gum material. The drum has opposite ends each of which is openable to accommodate a movable plunger at one end as hereinafter described.

The material in the drums may be identical or it may be of a variety of physical properties such as viscosity. The drums are removed from the pallet one by one by drum hauler such as from Easy Lift Equipment Co. Inc. 2 Mill Park Court Newark Delaware 19713. The lid of each of three drums is removed and each of the drums is loaded by the hauler into a respective container evacuator which may be a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press. Use of the drum hauler eliminates ergonomic risks associated with lifting and handling the heavy drums . The silicone gum is then forced from each drum in measured aliquots by the MEA into the conveyor . In the drawings embodiment the MEA comprises a container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus . The container evacuator can be a drum press which is a device that evacuates viscous or compacted contents from a drum. As illustrated in and the container evacuator is a press that comprises a substantially cylindrical chamber with hinged closures and for securing a drum removably within the chamber . The chamber and hinged closures and securely cradle the drum during a material extracting operation. A disc shaped platen fits into the chamber with a flat driving surface oriented perpendiculars to the longitudinal axis of the chamber and correspondingly perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of a drum held within the chamber .

The operation of feed system can be described with reference to and . In operation the press closures and are manually unlatched by activating fasteners and opening closures and . The drum hauler is used to load a first drum into the press cavity . The press closures and take pressure of the hydraulic system from a drum that may be thin walled. The closures and are secured by a plurality of fasteners which are described in detail with reference to .

Misalignment coupling serves to transmit mechanical power from one rotating shaft to another where the shafts are not in exact alignment. In the misalignment coupling is shown transmitting mechanical power from drive shaft to threaded shaft . Misalignment coupling is a three section part including back couple half and forward couple half and coupler section . Each couple half and has a configured interior that forms a continuous passageway through coupler section . Coupler section has back keys and forward keys that nest respectively into complementary keyways of back couple half and keyways of forward couple half . Connector has retaining groove and forward couple half has retaining groove and the couple halves and are retained by respective retaining rings and . The keyways and with inserted keys and and retaining rings and loosely connect each couple half and with the coupler section .

Back couple half interior passageway has an inner cylindrical splined surface adapted to receive a complementary splined surface of drive shaft and forward couple half has a splined surface adapted to receive the complementary splined surface of reduced diameter back section of threaded shaft . The splined surfaces are configured and oriented to nestle within respective spline surfaces in an interdigitated manner. The term interdigitated means that the splines are interlaced as fingers of two hands can be joined in parallel.

Coupler section interior passageway portion has a smooth wall and this portion of the passageway has a larger diameter than back couple half or forward couple half diameters defined by grooves of the splined surfaces and . The coupler section connects the halves so that the spline configurations of the halves are misaligned to trap the drive shaft and threaded shaft to one another. The keys and are held by rings and with some degree of axial play and are placed out of phase to one another to provide a slackened tolerance to both axial and angular misalignment between drive shaft and threaded shaft . The misalignment coupling configuration transmits drive shaft torque while accommodating axial and angular misalignment.

An overrun backoff mechanism is another embodiment illustrated in . Restart pin and a restart spring are shown in through . illustrates the open fastener showing the threaded shaft substantially but not completely unthreaded from threaded channel . The restart pin and restart spring are imposed into a passage of the threaded shaft longitudinal axis. The shows the restart pin biased by the drive shaft against the threaded shaft but with travel remaining within the passage . shows the lock fully closed with the restart pin advanced against the fully compressed restart spring imposing against the threaded shaft passage end. The restart pin pushes biases on the threaded shaft to cause it to fully extend and to reengage the clamp block. Then in an overrun condition as shown in the lead screw unthreads itself from the clamp block . . . .

Another embodiment of the invention relates to hydraulic control of the fastener . In and each hydraulic motor has a relief cartridge with hydraulic lines not shown connected to a hydraulic source not shown . An exemplary hydraulic motor with relief cartridge and hydraulic line ports and is illustrated in .

In other terms as hydraulic fluid flows into port B and out of port A of hydraulic motor causing Lead Screw to rotate unscrewing itself from Clamp Block . This causes clamp Block to extend. Once Clamp Block has extended to the point that Clamp Block comes into contact with Lug as illustrated in Clamp Block is at its end of travel and can extend no further . If the hydraulic motor continues to run Lead Screw will continue unscrewing itself from Clamp Block . With no travel left for the Clamp Block Lead Screw will travel toward hydraulic motor compressing Restart Spring between Restart Pin and the bottom of hole bored in center of Lead screw . The threads on lead screw will eventually disengage from Clamp Block . With the threads of the Lead Screw disengaged from Clamp Block continued rotation of Lead screw will cause no further travel in either Lead screw or Clamp Block .

In an overrun situation hydraulic fluid flows into port A and out of port B of hydraulic motor causing rotation of Lead Screw in its tightening direction. Restart Spring presses on Lead screw pushing its threads into the Threaded bore of Clamp Block causing the threads to reengage. Once the threads of Clamp Block and Lead Screw have reengaged Lead Screw will travel toward Lug . Lead Screw will come in contact with Lug at this point Clamp Block will begin to retract. Once the Nipple comes into contact with Lug the torque required to rotate the Lead Screw will increase. Because the pressure differential from port A and B of Hydraulic motor correlates to its output torque the pressure drop across ports A to B of hydraulic motor increases. Maximum torque is set by means of limiting the maximum hydraulic pressure drop from port A to B of hydraulic motor.

In a fastener unlocking cycle a solenoid of the spool valve directs fluid flow from port P to port B and from port A to port T resulting in hydraulic flow from port B to port A in each motor and . Flow from port B to port A actives each motor and to open each fastener . When an open situation is determined by PLC timing the PLC returns the valve to neutral. In an event that a motor fails to operate when hydraulically activated a relief valve prevents pressure from increasing above a burst pressure. 

Each MEA includes the container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus and each is set on a respective floor scale . In each MEA the feed tube is connected through the disc shaped platen to communicate with the press cavity . The platen is driven by hydraulic plunger . When a batch is set up by loading each chamber of the feed system battery an operator can initiate a system cycle by controller touch screen located at a work station. The controller can be a microprocessor or computer or the like for controlling the MEA as hereinafter described.

The operator can commence system operation at controller . When a cycle is activated by an operator a plunger of each container evacuator of the battery shown in is activated via control lines and . Then as the screw conveyor starts turning the press platen with connected feed tube is forced by hydraulically driven plunger to travel down into the drum interior. As further illustrated in as platen traverses the drum longitudinal axis within the press cavity drum contents are displaced upward into a connecting orifice of the feed tube . As the platen completes traversing the drum axis all material is forced upward into the feed tube to be eventually expelled from the feed tube discharge port .

The material is cut into small pieces by cutting apparatus as it exits from the discharge port to the conveyor to charge to compounding system . Cutting can be accomplished by various cutting mechanisms including a cutting head disposed at an outlet end of the feed tube. For example Brandl U.S. Pat. No. 5 797 516 incorporated hereto in its entirety discloses a cutting head formed by a knife that is detachably mounted in an axial direction and radial and tangential to the axial direction. The cutting head is situated relative to a feed tube about a common central longitudinal axis.

In the and embodiment the MEA includes a cutting apparatus located at discharge port . The cutting apparatus includes rails that secure cutting wire to guide the wire to cut material exiting the feed tube discharge port . The rails secure the cutting wire to traverse the feed tube longitudinal axis at discharge port when activated by controller via lines and .

The controller of illustrates an embodiment of the invention. Controller is responsively connected to loss of weight scales via lines to sense loss of weight as material is expressed from the drums to conveyor . The controller computes a weight charged of material charged to the conveyor by the difference between an initial weight of the MEA and initially emplaced and full drum . In the embodiment of the drawings the controller can sense an initial total weight of all the MEAs and emplaced full drums of the MEA battery of for example the three shown in . The controller monitors the combined weight as material in the drums is evacuated to the conveyor . The controller contemporaneously calculates a weight of material charged to the conveyor and hence to the compounding system according to a difference between the initial total weight and contemporaneously sensed total weight.

The controller also controls operation of cutting apparatus according to the calculated charged material weight. Initially the cutting apparatus can be programmed to make cuts of about football sized material for example to fit in a 14 inner diameter screw conveyor . Once a piece of material is cut from the feed tube discharge port floor scale senses a contemporaneous weight and feeds this signal back to the controller . When the controller senses a contemporaneous weight signal and calculates that a total charged weight is within a specified range of total material to be charged for example within pounds of set point to the compounding system the controller can signal the cutting apparatus via lines to increase cut frequently to produce smaller diced pieces. The smaller diced pieces at approach to set point permit improved control of feed to attain a charged material weight within a prescribed tolerance range for example 2 pounds for a batch.

As the drum evacuation process is completed door fasteners of the hinged closures and open and a controller Run Screen displays NEW DRUM. A beacon light mounted on the container evacuator turns yellow indicating the drum is ready to be changed. The chamber hinged closures and open the hydraulic unit motor terminates. The door fasteners are opened and the empty drum is removed typically with the drum hauler. The press is reloaded with a drum the process repeated.

As material is charged from the presses to the screw conveyor the conveyor is turning at low rpms to feed the material to the mixer. The screw is programmed to stop turning 90 seconds after the last press makes its last cut. We have determined this time to be adequate to clear all material from the conveyor.

Conveyor transports and drops the silicone gum to chute which drops the material into a material compounding system . In one silicone compounding process a heat cured rubber HCR composition can be produced by kneading a high viscosity polydiorganosiloxane an inorganic filler and additives by means of a batch kneading machine such as the high intensity Banbury mixer or a low intensity double arm dough mixer. In this process silicone gum inorganic filler treating agents and additives are batch mixed until desired properties are obtained. In Kasahara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 198 171 a preconcentrate of silicone gum inorganic filler and treating agents is formed by a high speed mechanical shearing mixer. The resulting premix is further compounded in a same direction double screw extruder. A premix is formed in a first step wherein a silicone gum having a viscosity at 25 C. of 1 10cP or more an inorganic filler and a treating agent are mixed in a high speed mechanical shearing machine to provide a flowable particulate mixture in which each ingredient is present in a substantially uniform finely dispersed state. The flowable particulate mixture is then fed at a constant feed rate into a kneading and extruding machine that has two screws rotating in the same direction.

As the material exits from the end of the conveyor it falls into a chute. It tumbles down the chute directly into the mixing chamber of a Banbury mixer where feed is mixed with filler and additives. In the and embodiment the silicone gum drops through chute to compounding system which includes mixer such as a Banbury roll mill conveyor belt and compounder . The material dropped from chute may be a feed of silicone gums of varying physical properties such as varying viscosity.

In the mixer such as a Bepex Turbolizer fumed silica the silicone gum and a treating agent can be added to form a densified polymer filler mass. After the gum feed is mixed it is dropped into the nip of roll mill where the material is rolled into a strip form. After a drop a programmed logic controller PLC verifies that the mixer drop door has opened then reclosed and is ready for feed. For any residual material that hangs in the chute the pusher is programmed to sweep a few seconds after the conveyor stops. This serves to scrape down the chute and ensure all material gets into the mixer to correctly formulate the batch.

The mill imparts a final mix to fully incorporate filler and to cool material. Then the material is stripped from the mill a strip form. The strip form is fed by means of conveyor belt into compounder which may be an extruder. The compounder serves to clean and form the material for packaging. The material can be packaged and boxed through an automated cut weigh and packaging system.

The feed system and method of the invention can be used in conjunction with a process to compound a silicone rubber into a base for sealing compounds with additives such as pigments dosed to the rubber in appropriate quantities and mixed in large mixers or extruders. illustrates an exemplary process wherein a filler such as fumed silica is continuously treated and compounded with a silicone polymer such as a vinyl terminated polydimethylsiloxane.

A heat cured rubber HCR comprises a high viscosity silicone polymer an inorganic filler and various additives that aid processing or impart desired final properties to the composition. A vulcanizing agent or catalyst can be added and the composition heat cured to fabricate silicone rubber moldings such as gaskets medical tubing and computer keypads. An HCR composition can be produced by kneading a high viscosity polydiorganosiloxane the inorganic filler and additives by means of a batch kneading machine such as a high intensity Banbury mixer or a low intensity double arm dough mixer. In this process polydiorganosiloxane inorganic filler treating agents and additives are batch mixed until desired properties are obtained. In Kasahara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 198 171 a preconcentrate of polydiorganosiloxane inorganic filler and treating agents is formed by a high speed mechanical shearing mixer. The resulting premix is further compounded in a same direction double screw extruder. The premix is formed in a first step wherein a diorganopolysiloxane having a viscosity at 25 C. of 1 10cP or more an inorganic filler and a treating agent are mixed in a high speed mechanical shearing machine to provide a flowable particulate mixture in which each ingredient is present in a substantially uniform finely dispersed state. The flowable particulate mixture is then fed at a constant feed rate into a kneading and extruding machine that has two screws rotating in the same direction.

The following Example is illustrative and should not be construed as a limitation on the scope of the claims.

This EXAMPLE is a combined description of press experiments at Schwerdtel US headquarters New Jersey ProSys Corporation Missouri and at GE Silicones Waterford N.Y. Experiments on the shaftless screw conveyor were conducted at GE Silicones Waterford using Martin Sprocket equipment.

A viscous material feed system as schematically illustrated in the drawings included a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press mounted to Vishay BLH floor scale that measured material flow according to loss of weight. The Schwerdtel S 6 F press included a hydraulic pressure driven cylinder and platen that drives a platen into the 55 gallon drum.

The feed system included a feed tube to receive material expressed from a drum by the press and a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system that metered material from the feed tube to a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor according to loss of weight sensed by the scale. The screw conveyor interfaced to a chute. The chute permitted material to fall via gravity directly to a Banbury mixer. Material remaining in the chute was cleared by a pneumatic pusher prior to each mix GE design and fabrication . The system was controlled by operators at two 2 QuickPanel LM90 touch screens.

In operation an operator first entered set points into a system controller. One set point represented a target batch of silicone gum to be charged to a Banbury mixer which was part of a silicone gum compounding system. A pallet of four 4 fifty five 55 gallon drums of polymer Viscosity Range 150 000 to 900 000 Poise was placed on the drum carousel. The 55 gallon straight sided steel drums were delivered by the carousel and one drum was loaded into the Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press using an Easy Lift Equipment Drum Hauler unit. The Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press was controlled by a GE Fanuc 90 30 PLC. Material was displaced from the drum to the feed tube by the hydraulic Schwerdtel gum press.

The operator pressed a START OR RESTRT BATCH button of the controller to commence operation. The press doors were secured by hydraulically driven fasteners. Then as the screw conveyor started turning the hydraulically driven press platen commenced traveling down into the drum. As platen traversed the drum drum contents were squeezed upward into the feed tube. As the platen completed traversing the drum axis all material was forced upward into the feed tube. As material exited the feed tube a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system diced the material into pieces that then fell into a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor to charge to a Banbury mixer.

A batch of material flow from conveyor to the Banbury mixer was measured by loss of weight detected by the Vishay BLH load cells. A combined weight of presses feed tubes cutting mechanisms and material containing drums was registered by the control system as a first weight. The control system monitored a charged weight of silicone gum to the Banbury by registering progressing weight as silicone gum was pressed from the drums and expelled through the feed tubes and cutting systems. The control system displayed a differential between the first weight and registered progressive weights that represented a charged silicone gum weight.

A system operator observed the differential weight and terminated the batch operation when the differential weight registered within a 2 pound range of the set point the pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system rate was increased to dice smaller aliquots of exiting material. The batch feed operation was terminated by the operator when the control system registered a charged silicone gum weight with 2 pounds of the set point.

The EXAMPLE illustrates control of material charge to a compounding system according to a feed system of the invention.

The invention includes changes and alterations that fall within the purview of the following claims. The foregoing examples are merely illustrative of the invention serving to illustrate only some of the features of the present invention. For example the invention includes a controller with a set of instructions to refer to a look up data base to determine a set point for a material to be charged to a compounding system sensing an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material signaling commencement of the material extracting apparatus operation to evacuate the material from the container sensing a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material calculating a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a specified range of the set point.

The appended claims are intended to claim the invention as broadly as it has been conceived and the examples herein presented are illustrative of selected embodiments from a manifold of all possible embodiments. Accordingly it is Applicants intention that the appended claims are not to be limited by the choice of examples utilized to illustrate features of the present invention.

As used in the claims the word comprises and its grammatical variants logically also subtend and include phrases of varying and differing extent such as for example but not limited thereto consisting essentially of and consisting of. 

Where necessary ranges have been Supplied those ranges are inclusive of all sub ranges there between. Such ranges may be viewed as a Markush group or groups consisting of differing pairwise numerical limitations which group or groups is or are fully defined by its lower and upper bounds increasing in a regular fashion numerically from lower bounds to upper bounds. It is to be expected that variations in these ranges will suggest themselves to a practitioner having ordinary skill in the art and where not already dedicated to the public those variations should where possible be construed to be covered by the appended claims.

It is also anticipated that advances in science and technology will make equivalents and substitutions possible that are not now contemplated by reason of the imprecision of language and these variations should also be construed where possible to be covered by the appended claims.

All United States patents and patent applications referenced herein are herewith and hereby specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety as though set forth in full.

