---

title: Nonvolatile memory device with test mechanism
abstract: A nonvolatile semiconductor memory device includes a memory cell having a MIS transistor configured to experience an irreversible change in transistor characteristics thereof to store data as the irreversible change, the MIS transistor having a gate node coupled to a word selecting line and a source/drain node coupled to a bit line, and the MIS transistor becoming conductive in response to a first state of the word selecting line and becoming nonconductive in response to a second state of the word selecting line, and a test circuit coupled to the bit line to sense a current running through the MIS transistor, the test circuit configured to indicate error in response to either a detection of presence of the current when the word selecting line is in the second state or a detection of absence of the current when the word selecting line is in the first state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07414903&OS=07414903&RS=07414903
owner: Nscore Inc.
number: 07414903
owner_city: Fukuoka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060428
---
The present invention generally relates to a memory device and particularly relates to a nonvolatile memory device which is capable of retaining stored data in the absence of a power supply voltage.

Nonvolatile semiconductor memory devices which can retain stored data even when power is turned off include flash EEPROMs employing a floating gate structure FeRAMs employing a ferroelectric film MRAMs employing a ferromagnetic film etc.

In the case of EEPROMs there is a need to manufacture a transistor having a special structure comprised of a floating gate. In the case of FeRAMs and MRAMs which achieve nonvolatile storage by use of a ferroelectric material and a ferromagnetic material respectively there is a need to form and process a film made of these respective materials. The need for such transistor having a special structure and the need for such film made of a special material are one of the factors that result in an increase in the manufacturing costs.

PCT JP2003 016143 which was filed on Dec. 17 2003 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference discloses a nonvolatile memory cell i.e. a basic unit of data storage comprised of a pair of MIS metal insulating film semiconductor transistors that have the same structure as ordinary MIS transistors used for conventional transistor functions e.g. switching function . Namely these memory cell transistors use neither a special structure such as a floating gate nor a special material such as a ferroelectric material or a ferromagnetic material. These MIS transistors are configured to experience an irreversible hot carrier effect on purpose for storage of one bit data.

The hot carrier effect leaves an irreversible lingering change in the transistor characteristics such as the threshold or on resistance of the transistors. Changes in the characteristics of the MIS transistors caused by the hot carrier effect achieve nonvolatile data retention. Which one of the MIS transistors has a stronger lingering change determines whether the stored data is 0 or 1 .

A latch flip flop circuit may be used together with the pair of MIS transistors for the purpose of reading sensing the data stored in the pair of MIS transistors. Such latch circuit may also be used to determine data to be stored in the memory cell MIS transistors. That is data to be stored as nonvolatile data may be first set in the latch circuit and then the data stored in the latch circuit may subsequently be stored in the pair of MIS transistors. The latch circuit and the memory cell MIS transistors together constitute a memory cell memory circuit .

When a nonvolatile memory device having the nonvolatile memory cells as described above is manufactured there is a need to conduct a test to ensure that the memory cells perform properly as designed. The latch circuit portion of each memory cell may properly be tested by use of a conventional SRAM test. The nonvolatile memory portion comprised of a pair of memory cell MIS transistors of each memory cell however cannot be tested by use of a conventional test technique. This is because the operation of the nonvolatile memory portion is founded on an irreversible change of the transistor characteristics. If a test that creates such an irreversible change is actually performed the memory circuit may no longer be usable.

Accordingly there is a need for a nonvolatile memory device provided with a test mechanism that can test the operation of the memory cells without undermining the function of the memory cells where the memory cells include MIS transistors that are designed to experience an irreversible change in their characteristics for the purpose of nonvolatile data retention.

It is a general object of the present invention to provide a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device that substantially obviates one or more problems caused by the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

It is another and more specific object of the present invention to provide a nonvolatile memory device provided with a test mechanism that can test the operation of the memory cells without undermining the function of the memory cells where the memory cells include MIS transistors that are designed to experience an irreversible change in their characteristics for the purpose of nonvolatile data retention.

Features and advantages of the present invention will be presented in the description which follows and in part will become apparent from the description and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by practice of the invention according to the teachings provided in the description. Objects as well as other features and advantages of the present invention will be realized and attained by a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device particularly pointed out in the specification in such full clear concise and exact terms as to enable a person having ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention.

To achieve these and other advantages in accordance with the purpose of the invention the invention provides a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device which includes bit lines word selecting lines a plurality of memory cells arranged in a matrix one of the memory cells including a MIS transistor configured to experience an irreversible change in transistor characteristics thereof to store data as the irreversible change the MIS transistor having a gate node thereof coupled to one of the word selecting lines and a source drain node thereof coupled to one of the bit lines and the MIS transistor becoming conductive in response to a first state of the one of the word selecting lines and becoming nonconductive in response to a second state of the one of the word selecting lines and a test circuit coupled to the one of the bit lines to sense a current running through the MIS transistor the test circuit configured to indicate error in response to either a detection of presence of the current when the one of the word selecting lines is in the second state or a detection of absence of the current when the one of the word selecting lines is in the first state.

According to at least one embodiment of the present invention the nonvolatile semiconductor memory device as described above is provided with the test circuit which tests the conductivity of the MIS transistor by detecting a current flowing through the relevant bit line while the conductivity of the MIS transistor is switched between a conductive state and a nonconductive state. With this provision it is possible to check the presence absence of a current running through the MIS transistor designed to experience an irreversible change for nonvolatile data retention. Based on this check a determination can be made as to whether this MIS transistor properly operates as a transistor and also as to whether circuit connections are properly formed by the manufacturing process.

Further according to another aspect of the present invention a method of testing a nonvolatile semiconductor memory device which includes bit lines and a plurality of memory cells arranged in a matrix one of the memory cells including a MIS transistor configured to experience an irreversible change in transistor characteristics thereof to store data as the irreversible change the MIS transistor having a source drain node thereof coupled to one of the bit lines includes the steps of placing the MIS transistor in a selected one of a conductive state and a nonconductive state and checking a current flowing through the one of the bit lines to check a current flowing through the MIS transistor.

In the following embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The memory cell array includes a plurality of memory cells arranged in a matrix form each memory cell having a circuit configuration as will later be described. The memory cells arranged in the same column are connected to the same bit lines and the memory cells arranged in the same row are connected to the same word line.

The mode selector receives mode input signals from an exterior of the device and decodes the mode input signal to determine an operation mode e.g. a write operation mode a read operation mode or a test operation mode . Control signals responsive to the determined operation mode are supplied to the write amplifier the sense amplifier column selector the row signal driver etc. for control of the individual parts of the semiconductor memory device .

The column decoder receives a column address input from the exterior of the device and decodes the column address input to determine a selected column. The decode signals indicative of the selected column are supplied to the write amplifier and the sense amplifier column selector .

The row decoder receives a row address input from the exterior of the device and decodes the row address input to determine a selected row. The decode signals indicative of the selected row are supplied to the row signal driver .

In response to the control signals from the mode selector and the decode signals from the row decoder the row signal driver activates a selected word line among the word lines extending from the row signal driver . As a result of the activation of the selected word line a volatile memory unit of each memory cell corresponding to the selected word line is coupled to a corresponding bit line pair among a plurality of bit line pairs. Through this coupling the writing reading of data to from the volatile memory portion of each memory cell is performed.

In response to the control signals from the mode selector and the decode signals from the column decoder the sense amplifier column selector couples the bit lines corresponding to the selected column to a data bus. Through this coupling data is transferred between the memory cell array and the data bus. The sense amplifier column selector amplifies the data read from the memory cell array for provision to the output buffer . The data is output from the output buffer to the exterior of the device as output data. Input data supplied to the input buffer is provided to the write amplifier . The write amplifier amplifies the input data to be written to the memory cell array .

The memory cell includes NMOS transistors and a PMOS transistor NMOS transistors through PMOS transistors and and NMOS transistors and . The NMOS transistors and and PMOS transistors and together constitute a volatile memory unit latch circuit . The NMOS transistors and constitute a nonvolatile memory unit .

The NMOS transistors and serving as nonvolatile memory cell transistors have the same structure as the other NMOS transistors including the NMOS transistors through used in the volatile memory unit and the NMOS transistors and used as a transfer gate between the memory cell and the bit lines.

As shown in bit lines BL and BL extend from the write amplifier and the sense amplifier column selector and are coupled to the volatile memory unit via the NMOS transistors and serving as a data transfer unit. A word selecting line WLW extends from the row signal driver and is coupled to the gate nodes of the NMOS transistors and serving as the nonvolatile memory unit . A word line WL extends from the row signal driver to be connected to the gates of the NMOS transistors and . Further a restore line RESTORE plate line controlled power line PL and equalize line EQ also extend from the row signal driver .

It should be noted that the configuration shown in is identical with respect to each and every one of the memory cells provided in the memory cell array . Namely multiple sets of the lines RESTORE PL WLW EQ and WL are provided in one to one correspondence to the rows of the memory cell array .

As shown in the mode selector supplies signals RESTORE WLW EQ WL and PL to the row signal driver . The signals RESTORE WLW EQ and PL are coupled to the corresponding lines of each row without any logic operation and are thus output from the row signal driver to the memory cell array as RESTORE WLW EQ and PL for a row address RA and RESTOREn WLWn EQn and PLn for a row address RAn for example. Inverters and are used as output buffers for RESTORE WLW and EQ. Voltage converters are used for PL. The voltage converters serve to covert the voltage of the signal PL to the voltage of the signal PLx x 1 . . . n .

The signal WL supplied from the mode selector and each row address signal RA . . . RAn supplied from the row decoder are combined by a corresponding NAND gate an output of which is inverted by the inverter for provision to the memory cell array . Thus only one of the signals WL through WLn is activated and supplied to the memory cell array so as to activate a selected row address.

In this configuration as described above the store operation and restore operation are performed with respect to the entirety of the memory cell array . Alternatively the store operation and restore operation may be performed separately for each row address. In such a case the signals RESTORE WLW EQ and PL supplied from the mode selector are combined with each row address signal in the row signal driver such as to achieve a proper row address specific store operation and restore operation.

Further a test enable signal TE and a precharge signal PRC are supplied from the mode selector to a cell test circuitry which is provided together with the sense amplifier column selector . The mode selector controls the test enable signal TE and the precharge signal PRC so as to cause the cell test circuitry to perform a test operation when the mode input signals indicate a test operation mode.

Turning to again the store operation of the nonvolatile memory device will be briefly described. When the mode input from the exterior of the device indicates a store operation the control signals PL RESTORE WLW EQ WL and WE are set to 1 1 1 0 0 and 0 respectively. In response to PL being 1 the plate line PL is set to Vpp 3.3 V and in response to WLW being 1 the word selecting line WLW is set to Vpp 2.

The potentials of the node C and the node C are inverse to each other and the data stored in the latch circuit NMOS transistors and and PMOS transistors and determines which one of the nodes C and C is HIGH.

For the sake of convenience of explanation it is assumed that the node C is HIGH Vdd 1.8 V and the node C is LOW GND ground . In this case only the NMOS transistor experiences a rise in the threshold voltage due to a hot carrier effect. The NMOS transistor does not experience a change in the threshold voltage. This achieves the storing of the data of the volatile memory unit in the nonvolatile memory unit .

During the store operation as described above the high potential 3.3 V is never applied to the latch circuit. This is because the NMOS transistors and serve as intervening circuit elements between the plate line PL Vpp 3.3 V and the nodes C and C. Since the word selecting line WLW is set to Vpp 2 and the nodes C and C are serving as source nodes the potentials at the nodes C and C cannot exceed Vpp 2 minus the threshold voltage. In this configuration therefore a hot carrier effect does not happen in the transistors used in the latch circuit volatile memory unit .

In the following the restore operation of the nonvolatile memory device will be briefly described. When the mode input from the exterior of the device indicates a restore operation the control signals PL RESTORE WLW EQ WL and WE are set to 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 and 0 respectively. Here 0 1 0 for example indicates that the signal level is set to 0 at the first phase 1 at the second phase and 0 at the third phase.

At the first phase the signal RESTORE is set to 0 and the signal EQ is set to 0. As a result the NMOS transistor in becomes nonconductive to deactivate the volatile memory unit and the PMOS transistor in becomes conductive to equalize the nodes C and C.

At the second phase the signal EQ is set to 1 and the word selecting line WLW is set to 1. As a result the PMOS transistor is turned off to separate the nodes C and C from each other and the NMOS transistors and are turned on. Assuming that the store operation as described above has been performed prior to the restore operation the NMOS transistor has a higher threshold voltage and thus has a higher ON resistance. Accordingly the force that pulls down the node C is weaker than the force that pulls down the node C resulting in the nodes C and C changing to HIGH and LOW respectively.

At the third phase the signal RESTORE is set to 1 and the word selecting line WLW is set to 0. As a result the NMOS transistor becomes conductive to activate the volatile memory unit and the NMOS transistors and are turned off. The activated volatile memory unit amplifies a potential difference appearing between the node C and the node C thereby sensing detecting the data stored in the nonvolatile memory unit .

In the configuration described above a drain node and a source node of the NMOS transistors and used to apply a bias for generating the hot carrier effect are swapped and used as a source node and a drain node respectively at the time of reading the data. With the swapping of the source and drain nodes at the time of data read operation relative to the time of data write operation a change in the transistor characteristics caused by the hot carrier effect is efficiently used as a means to store data.

It should be noted however that the storing and reading restoring of data can be performed without such swapping of source and drain nodes as described in PCT JP2003 016143 for example. The swapping of drain and source nodes merely serves to utilize asymmetry of a hot carrier effect. Namely when the source node and drain node used to apply a bias for generating a hot carrier effect are swapped and used as a drain node and a source node respectively at the time of detecting a drain current the detected drain current exhibits a larger drop caused by the hot carrier effect than would be observed when no swapping was performed.

In the following a first embodiment of a test mechanism provided in the semiconductor memory device will be described. is an illustrative drawing for explaining a test operation performed in the semiconductor memory device .

As shown in in the test operation mode a current Iflowing through the NMOS transistor is detected by the cell test circuitry which is provided together with the write amplifier sense amplifier column selector . Please note that in the write amplifier and the sense amplifier column selector and the cell test circuitry are put together and illustrated as a single unit. It should also be noted that when the NMOS transistor is to be tested the word line WL is activated to turn on the NMOS transistor .

The current Iis supposed to flow in sufficient amount when the NMOS transistor is tuned on and thus conductive. The current Iis supposed not to flow when the NMOS transistor is tuned off and thus nonconductive. In this manner the test operation mode of the present invention detects the presence absence of a current running through a MIS transistor designed to experience a hot carrier effect for nonvolatile data retention. Based on this detection a check can be made as to whether this MIS transistor properly operates as a transistor and also as to whether circuit connections are properly formed by the manufacturing process.

The test operation as described above is performed with respect to each of the MIS transistors and of all the memory cells. The write amplifier sense amplifier column selector the cell test circuitry and the row signal driver are controlled by the mode selector to perform such test operation.

The NAND gates of the column selector receive column address signals Y Y Y and Y and output decode results thereby asserting turning to LOW only one of the NAND gate outputs corresponding to the selected column address. When one of the NAND gate outputs is asserted the NMOS transistors corresponding to the asserted output are turned on to become conductive thereby coupling a corresponding pair of bit lines to the sense amplifier the current sensing circuit the current sensing circuit and the write buffer .

The sense amplifier is provided for the purpose of reading sensing the data appearing on the coupled bit lines. The write buffer is provided for the purpose of writing transmitting write data to the coupled bit lines. The current sensing circuits and are provided for the purpose of detecting the current Ias previously described.

With the configuration as described above it is possible to suppress an increase in the circuit size caused by providing the current sensing circuits for the test purpose according to the present invention. In the configuration shown in one of the four bit line pairs is selected and coupled to the current sensing circuits. This is only a non limiting example and the number of bit line pairs selected by the column selector can be any number.

The current sensing circuit of includes NMOS transistors and PMOS transistors and and an inverter . The PMOS transistors and have the same channel width and same channel length and have the gate nodes thereof coupled to each other thereby forming a current mirror circuit. A reference current Iruns through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor and the current Iruns through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor . The current Iis supplied to the NMOS transistor for example via the NMOS transistor as shown in .

The NMOS transistors and have the gate node thereof to which the test enable signal TE is applied. When the test enable signal TE is set to HIGH the NMOS transistors and are turned on to become conductive.

The NMOS transistors and are configured such that the channel width of the NMOS transistor is much narrower than the channel width of the NMOS transistor or the channel length of the NMOS transistor is much longer than the channel length of the NMOS transistor . This makes it possible to set Ito a threshold current amount that discriminates the presence absence of the current I. It should be noted that the channel width of the NMOS transistor is preferably set wider than the channel width of the NMOS transistor .

If the current Iis larger than the reference current I the input node of the inverter is set to a low potential resulting in the output TR of the inverter being HIGH. If the current Iis smaller than the reference current I the input node of the inverter is set to a high potential resulting in the output TR of the inverter being LOW. In this manner the current sensing circuit detects senses the current Iflowing through an NMOS transistor serving as a nonvolatile memory cell transistor i.e. the NMOS transistor shown in . The output TR of the inverter serves as a test result signal for the corresponding NMOS transistor . In the following a test result signal for the NMOS transistor paired with the NMOS transistor i.e. the NMOS transistor shown in is designated as TR. Further test result signals for n NMOS transistors are designated as TR TR TR . . . and TRn and test result signals for the NMOS transistors paired with these n NMOS transistors are designated as TR TR TR . . . and TRn.

The precharge signal PRC is supplied from the mode selector . When the precharge signal PRC becomes HIGH the NMOS transistor and the PMOS transistor become conductive. The conductance of the NMOS transistor and the PMOS transistor is set much smaller than the conductance of the NMOS transistors through and the PMOS transistors through 

If at least one of the test result signals TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn is HIGH TON is set to LOW Gnd . Only when all the test result signals TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are LOW TON is set to HIGH Vdd . If at least one of the test result signals TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn is LOW TOFF is set to HIGH Vdd . Only when all the test result signals TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are HIGH TON is set to LOW Vdd .

Accordingly both TON and TOFF become LOW if all the NMOS transistors tested for their operation properly allow respective currents to flow through i.e. if TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are all HIGH . Both TON and TOFF become HIGH if all the NMOS transistors tested for their operation properly prevent respective currents from flowing through i.e. if TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are all LOW .

When the test enable signal TE is HIGH and the word selecting line WLW is also HIGH the NAND gate produces a LOW output. This LOW output causes the output of the NAND gate to be fixed to HIGH. Only if both TON and TOFF are set to LOW indicating that all the NMOS transistors properly allow respective currents to flow through does the NOR gate produce a HIGH output resulting in the output of the exclusive OR gate being LOW. Otherwise the output of the exclusive OR gate is set to HIGH.

When the test enable signal TE is HIGH and the word selecting line WLW is LOW the NAND gate produces a HIGH output. This HIGH output causes the output of the NOR gate to be fixed to LOW. Only if both TON and TOFF are set to HIGH indicating that all the NMOS transistors properly prevent respective currents from flowing through does the NAND gate produce a LOW output resulting in the output of the exclusive OR gate being LOW. Otherwise the output of the exclusive OR gate is set to HIGH.

Accordingly the output of the exclusive OR gate serves as a fail signal FAIL which becomes LOW if the test results indicate no error and becomes HIGH if any one of the test results indicates an error.

The word selecting line WLW is then set to HIGH to check whether all the NMOS transistors to be tested are properly placed in a conductive state. The precharge signal PRC and the test enable signal TE are then set to HIGH to check the test results resulting in TON and TOFF being both LOW. The fact that both TON and TOFF are LOW in this case indicates that none of the NMOS transistors exhibits an error. The fail signal FAIL is LOW in this case.

When WLW is 1 on the other hand the fact that TRn TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are all 1 indicates there is no error. If any one of TRn is zero the fail signal FAIL becomes 1 indicating the presence of an error.

In the following a second embodiment of a test mechanism provided in the semiconductor memory device will be described. is an illustrative drawing for explaining test operations performed in the semiconductor memory device .

In the memory cell configuration as shown in the PMOS transistor is used for the purpose of equalizing the nodes C and C. In this configuration however the PMOS transistor cannot be tested with respect to its conductive state and nonconductive state. That is the PMOS transistor cannot be tested to see whether the PMOS transistor properly becomes conductive or nonconductive.

In the memory cell configuration shown in PMOS transistors and are provided in place of the PMOS transistor shown in . Instead of using the PMOS transistor to equalize the nodes C and C the PMOS transistors and are used to set the nodes C and C to a predetermined potential. Namely when the equalize line EQ is set to LOW the PMOS transistors and become conductive so as to set the nodes C and C to the power supply voltage Vdd.

In this configuration the PMOS transistor can be tested by checking a current IBL P that passes through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor . It should be noted that the PMOS transistor can be tested similarly.

The NMOS transistor can be tested in the same manner as in the first embodiment shown in . Namely in the test operation mode of the second embodiment a current I N flowing through the NMOS transistor is detected by the cell test circuitry provided together with the write amplifier sense amplifier column selector .

The current I N flows out of the cell test circuitry provided together with the write amplifier sense amplifier column selector . The current I P on the other hand flows into the cell test circuitry so that different current sensing mechanisms may be required separately for the sensing of the current I N and for the sensing of the current I N.

The current I N is supposed to flow in sufficient amount when the NMOS transistor is tuned on and thus conductive and is supposed not to flow when the NMOS transistor is tuned off and thus nonconductive. Further the current I P is supposed to flow in sufficient amount when the PMOS transistor is tuned on and thus conductive and is supposed not to flow when the PMOS transistor is tuned off and thus nonconductive. It should be noted that when the NMOS transistor or PMOS transistor is to be tested the word line WL is activated to turn on the NMOS transistor .

In this manner the test operation mode of the second embodiment detects the presence absence of a current running through a transistor to be tested. Based on this detection a check can be made as to whether this transistor properly operates as a transistor and also as to whether circuit connections are properly formed by the manufacturing process.

The test operation as described above is performed with respect to each of the MIS transistors and of all the memory cells. The write amplifier sense amplifier column selector the cell test circuitry and the row signal driver are controlled by the mode selector to perform such test operation.

The configuration of the write amplifier sense amplifier column selector and the cell test circuitry may be the same as those used in the first embodiment. Namely as shown in the write amplifier sense amplifier column selector include the column selector the sense amplifier the write buffer together with which the cell test circuitry is provided. The cell test circuitry includes the current sensing circuit and the current sensing circuit . The operations of these circuits are basically the same as were previously described in connection with .

The current sensing circuit of includes the NMOS transistors and the PMOS transistors and the inverter an inverter PMOS transistors and NMOS transistors and and inverters and . The same elements as those of are referred to by the same numerals and a description thereof may be omitted when unnecessary.

The PMOS transistors and have the same channel width and same channel length and have the gate nodes thereof coupled to each other thereby forming a current mirror circuit. A reference current I N runs through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor and the current I N runs through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor . The current I N is supplied to the NMOS transistor for example via the NMOS transistor as shown in .

The NMOS transistors and have the same channel width and same channel length and have the gate nodes thereof coupled to each other thereby forming a current mirror circuit. A reference current I P runs through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor and the current I P runs through the PMOS transistor and the NMOS transistor . The current I P is supplied from the power supply potential Vdd through the PMOS transistor for example and the NMOS transistor as shown in .

The NMOS transistors and the PMOS transistors and and the inverter constitute a first mirror amplifier to detect sense the current IBL N which flows out of the current sensing circuit. The inverter the PMOS transistors and the NMOS transistors and and the inverters and constitute a second mirror amplifier to detect sense the current IBL P which flows into the current sensing circuit.

The NMOS transistors and have the gate node thereof to which a test enable signal TEN is applied. When the test enable signal TEN is set to HIGH the NMOS transistors and are turned on to become conductive. The PMOS transistors and have the gate node thereof to which an inverse of a test enable signal TEP is applied. When the test enable signal TEP is set to HIGH the PMOS transistors and are turned on to become conductive.

The channel width conditions and channel length conditions with respect to the NMOS transistors and are the same as in the first embodiment. The channel width conditions and channel length conditions with respect to the PMOS transistors and are set similarly to the manner the channel width conditions and channel length conditions of the NMOS transistors and are set.

If the current I N is larger than the reference current I N the input node of the inverter is set to a low potential resulting in the output TRN of the inverter being HIGH. If the current I N is smaller than the reference current I N the input node of the inverter is set to a high potential resulting in the output TRN of the inverter being LOW.

By the same token if the current I P is larger than the reference current I P the input node of the inverter is set to a high potential resulting in the output TRP of the inverter being HIGH. If the current I P is smaller than the reference current I P the input node of the inverter is set to a low potential resulting in the output TRP of the inverter being LOW.

In this manner the current sensing circuit produces the test result signal TRN for the NMOS transistor and produces the test result signal TRP for the PMOS transistor . By the same token the current sensing circuit produces a test result signal TRN for the NMOS transistor and produces a test result signal TRP for the PMOS transistor . That is the test result signals TRN TRN TRP and TRP can be obtained for a single memory cell. For n th memory cell test result signals TRNn TRNn TRPn and TRPn are obtained in the same manner.

The test result signals TR through TRn and TR through TRn produced in this manner are then used in the same manner as in the first embodiment to produce TON and TOFF by use of the circuit shown in . Both TON and TOFF become LOW if all the transistors tested for their operation properly allow respective currents to flow through. Further both TON and TOFF become HIGH if all the transistors tested for their operation properly prevent respective currents from flowing through.

When the test selecting signal SW is LOW the output of the NAND gate is fixed to HIGH. Only if both TON and TOFF are set to LOW indicating that all the tested transistors properly allow respective currents to flow through does the NOR gate produce a HIGH output resulting in the output of the exclusive OR gate being LOW. Otherwise the output of the exclusive OR gate is set to HIGH.

When the test selecting signal SW is HIGH the output of the NOR gate is fixed to LOW. Only if both TON and TOFF are set to HIGH indicating that all the tested transistors properly prevent respective currents from flowing through does the NAND gate produce a LOW output resulting in the output of the exclusive OR gate being LOW. Otherwise the output of the exclusive OR gate is set to HIGH.

Accordingly the output of the exclusive OR gate serves as a fail signal FAIL which becomes LOW if the test results indicate no error and becomes HIGH if any one of the test results indicates an error.

The word selecting line WLW is then set to HIGH to check whether all the NMOS transistors to be tested are properly placed in a conductive state. The choice of such test is indicated by the LOW state of the test selecting signal SW. The precharge signal PRC and the test enable signal TEN are then set to HIGH to check the test results resulting in TON and TOFF being both LOW. The fact that both TON and TOFF are LOW in this case indicates that none of the NMOS transistors exhibits an error. The fail signal FAIL is LOW in this case.

When WLW is 1 on the other hand the fact that TRn TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are all 1 indicates there is no error. If any one of TRn is zero the fail signal FAIL becomes 1 indicating the presence of an error.

The equalize line EQ is then set to LOW to check whether all the PMOS transistors to be tested are properly placed in a conductive state. The choice of such test is indicated by the LOW state of the test selecting signal SW. The precharge signal PRC and the test enable signal TEP are then set to HIGH to check the test results resulting in TON and TOFF being both LOW. The fact that both TON and TOFF are LOW in this case indicates that none of the PMOS transistors exhibits an error. The fail signal FAIL is LOW in this case.

When EQ is 0 on the other hand the fact that TRn TR TR TR TR . . . TRn and TRn are all 1 indicates there is no error. If any one of TRn is zero the fail signal FAIL becomes 1 indicating the presence of an error.

In the embodiments described heretofore the nonvolatile memory unit is comprised of n channel silicon MOS transistors. This is a non limiting example. Other transistors such as p channel silicon MOS transistors may as well be used to form the nonvolatile memory unit and the test mechanism of the present invention may as well be properly used.

Further these embodiments have been described with reference to an example in which a hot carrier effect is used as a cause of an irreversible change. Other phenomenon such as NBTI Negative Bias Temperature Instability or PBTI Positive Bias Temperature Instability may be used to cause an irreversible change in place of the hot carrier effect. Even when such other phenomenon is used for nonvolatile data retention the test mechanism of the present invention may properly be used.

Further the present invention is not limited to these embodiments but various variations and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

