---

title: Dicarboxylic acid derivatives and their use
abstract: The present application relates to novel dicarboxylic acid derivatives, process for their preparation, their use for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, especially for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08609727&OS=08609727&RS=08609727
owner: Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
number: 08609727
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061017
---
This application is a National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 based on International Application No. PCT EP2006 009996 filed Oct. 17 2006 which claims priority to German Patent Application Number 102005050376.4 filed Oct. 21 2005 the entire contents each of which are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing applications and all documents cited therein and all documents cited or referenced therein and all documents cited or referenced herein including any U.S. or foreign patents or published patent applications International patent applications as well as any non patent literature references and any manufacturer s instructions are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to novel dicarboxylic acid derivatives process for their preparation their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyse the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one haem per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of haem and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Haem free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of haem but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signalling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of haem. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the haem group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron centre of the haem group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a haem dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the haem group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the haem free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of haem free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO haem adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin DC to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the haem containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but haem dependent stimulator YC 1 described above M lsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the haem containing and the haem free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a haem independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the haem containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the haem dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leucotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

This object is achieved by the compounds described in the present invention. These compounds are distinguished structurally from the prior art compounds by a core 3 benzyl 1 5 diphenylpent 1 ene structure.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulphonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulphuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulphonic acid ethanesulphonic acid toluenesulphonic acid benzenesulphonic acid naphthalenedisulphonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

 C C Alkyl and C C alkyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl 1 ethylpropyl n pentyl and n hexyl.

 C C Alkanediyl and C C alkanediyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkyl radical having respectively 1 to 7 and 2 to 6 carbon atoms. A straight chain alkanediyl radical having 1 to 6 or 2 to 5 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methylene 1 2 ethylene ethane 1 1 diyl 1 3 propylene propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl 1 4 butylene butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl butane 2 3 diyl pentane 1 5 diyl pentane 2 4 diyl 3 methylpentane 2 4 diyl and hexane 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkenediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkenyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 double bonds. A straight chain alkenediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 double bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethene 1 1 diyl ethene 1 2 diyl propene 1 1 diyl propene 1 2 diyl propene 1 3 diyl but 1 ene 1 4 diyl but 1 ene 1 3 diyl but 2 ene 1 4 diyl buta 1 3 diene 1 4 diyl pent 2 ene 1 5 diyl hex 3 ene 1 6 diyl and hexa 2 4 diene 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkynediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkynyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 triple bonds. A straight chain alkynediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 triple bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethyne 1 2 diyl propyne 1 3 diyl but 1 yne 1 4 diyl but 1 yne 1 3 diyl but 2 yne 1 4 diyl pent 2 yne 1 5 diyl pent 2 yne 1 4 diyl and hex 3 yne 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkoxy and C C alkoxy are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy and n hexoxy.

 C C Alkoxycarbonyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which is linked via a carbonyl group. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl n propoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl and tert butoxycarbonyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine or fluorine are preferred.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

If a radical in the compounds according to the invention can be substituted more than once by fluorine in the context of the present invention this includes perfluoro substitution.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I in which

Very particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

Very particular preference is also given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I B 

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds according to the invention of the formula I characterized in that compounds of the formula II 

Inert solvents for process steps II III A IV A and II III B IV B are for example ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or mixtures of these solvents. Tetrahydrofuran mixed with hexane is preferably used.

Bases suitable for these process steps are the bases usual for a Wittig reaction. These include in particular strong bases such as n sec or tert butyllithium lithiumdiisopropylamide LDA or lithium sodium or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide. n Butyllithium is preferred.

The reactions II III A IV A and II III B IV B are generally carried out in a temperature range from 78 C. to 20 C. preferably at 20 C. to 10 C.

Inert solvents for the process step IV B V IV C are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetonitrile dimethylformamide dimethyl sulphoxide N N dimethylpropylene urea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Acetonitrile is preferably used.

Bases suitable for this process step are in particular potassium carbonate sodium or potassium hydride lithiumdiisopropylamide or n butyllithium. Potassium carbonate is preferably used.

The reaction IV B V IV C is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 120 C. preferably at 50 C. to 100 C.

Hydrolysis of the ester and nitrile groups Tand Tin process steps IV A I and IV C I takes place by usual methods by treating the esters or nitriles in inert solvents with acids or bases and in the latter case converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. In the case of the tert butyl esters the ester cleavage preferably takes place with acids.

If the groups Tand Tare different the hydrolysis can where appropriate be carried out simultaneously in a one pot reaction or in two separate reaction steps.

Inert solvents suitable for these reactions are water or the organic solvents usual for an ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulphoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are preferably employed and in the case of nitrile hydrolysis preferably water or n propanol. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Sodium potassium or lithium hydroxide are particularly preferred.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulphuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulphonic acid methanesulphonic acid or trifluoromethanesulphonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters are preferred.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The nitrile hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out under atmospheric pressure in each case.

The aldehydes of the formula II can be prepared in analogy to processes disclosed in the literature for example by a sequential dialkylation of diallyl malonate with compounds of the formulae VI and VII 

The compounds of the formulae III A and III B can be obtained by processes usual in the literature by reaction of compounds of the formula X A or X B 

The compounds of the formulae V VI VII X A and X B are commercially available disclosed in the literature or can be prepared in analogy to processes disclosed in the literature concerning the preparation of the compounds according to the invention overall compare also the preparation processes described in EP 0 341 551 A1 WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 and WO 01 19778 .

Separation of the compounds according to the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds IV A IV B IV C or IX which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the process sequence described above. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by usual methods known to the skilled person chromatographic processes or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

Preparation of the compounds according to the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischaemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistoric and ischaemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequelae of cerebral infarctions such as stroke cerebral ischaemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin All antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic route or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulphate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colours e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavours and or odours.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 m min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 0.2 min 100 A 2.9 min 30 A 3.1 min 10 A 5.5 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Merck Chromolith SpeedROD RP 18e 100 mm 4.6 mm eluent A water 500 l of 50 formic acid l eluent B acetonitrile 500 l of 50 formic acid l gradient 0.0 min 10 B 7.0 min 95 B 9.0 min 95 B flow rate 0.0 min 1.0 ml min 7.0 min 2.0 ml min 9.0 min 2.0 ml min oven 35 C. UV detection 210 mm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 Series UV DAD column Phenomenex Gemini 3 30 mm 3.00 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Onyx Monolithic C18 100 mm 3 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2 min 65 A 4.5 min 5 A 6 min 5 A flow rate 2 ml min oven 40 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 A of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 1 of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

50 g 0.304 mol of 5 phenylpentan 1 ol are added to a solution of 416.7 ml 1.83 mol of 48 strength hydrobromic acid at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction solution is subsequently stirred at 10 C. for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and mixed with 200 ml of ethyl acetate. After extraction the organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 59.4 g 0.26 mol 86 yield of a colourless liquid are obtained.

13.10 ml 13.10 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex are added dropwise to a solution of 2 g 8.73 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzoic acid in 50 ml of dry THF at 10 C. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred for one hour. After reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. 1.67 g 7.76 mmol 79 yield of a colourless oil are obtained and are employed without further purification in the next stage.

240.5 mg 1.12 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 200 mg 0.93 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl phenyl methanol in 20 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then mixed with about 2 g of silica gel and evaporated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 183 mg 0.85 mmol 82 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

42.26 ml 0.385 mmol of titanium tetrachloride are added over the course of 10 min to a solution of 44.4 g 0.38 mol of dichloromethyl methyl ether in 230 ml of dichloromethane while cooling 4 5 C. and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour. Then 64.89 g 0.34 mol of 2 bromoethyl benzene dissolved in 24 ml dichloromethane are metered into the reaction solution at 5 7 C. over the course of 50 min. The reaction solution is then slowly warmed to room temperature and the mixture is left to stir overnight. After reaction is complete 140 ml of water are very cautiously added dropwise over the course of 1 hour caution initially endothermic reaction as a result of evolution of gas then exothermic reaction up to 30 C. cooling necessary . The reaction solution is then extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases are washed with 170 ml of water and neutralized with 115 ml of sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane petroleum ether 1 2 1 1 . 29.3 g 0.14 mol 37 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

12.42 g 0.18 mol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride are added to a solution of 29.3 g 0.14 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzaldehyde in 112.4 ml of formic acid and the mixture is heated under reflux for 2 hours. After slowly cooling to room temperature 670 ml of water are added and the reaction mixture is slowly neutralized with 6 N sodium hydroxide solution while cooling. The mixture is then extracted three times with methyl tert butyl ether. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulphate and evaporated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . 21.3 g 0.10 mol 74 yield of a yellowish solid are obtained.

14.42 g 0.36 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 56.7 g 0.3 mol of diallyl malonate in 375 ml of dioxane and 75 ml of THF at 0 C. caution evolution of hydrogen . After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Then 111.88 g 0.6 mol of methyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 375 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is then stirred at 110 C. bath temperature overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH is 

6.70 g 0.17 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 55.71 g 0.17 mol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate in 34 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 1 hour. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again 42.98 g 0.20 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile in 21 ml of DMF are added and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on 3 kg of silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 . 36 g 78 mmol 46 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 41.8 ml 0.3 mol of triethylamine and 8.6 ml 0.23 mol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 43.5 g 0.09 mol of diallyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate 1.67 g 0.01 mol of triphenylphosphine and 410 mg of palladium acetate in 505 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 50 1 . 25 g 74 mmol 82 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

20.6 ml 20.6 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 4.2 g 12.98 mmol of methyl 4 2 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate in 40 ml of THF at 15 C. and the reaction mixture is stirred at this temperature for 3 hours. Then a further 10 ml 10 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 15 C. for a further 30 min. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulphate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on 150 g of silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 . 3.1 g 90 purity 83 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

4.56 g 21.15 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 5.7 g 17.63 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 hydroxymethylbutyl benzoate in 250 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 4.16 g 12.94 mmol 73 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

5.9 ml 9.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 1820 mg 4.05 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 10 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 1085 mg 3.38 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate in 10 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and after addition of a little water evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 1150 mg 2.79 mmol 83 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

2.20 g 9.71 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 2.02 g 14.59 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 2 g 3.6 mmol of methyl E4 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 enyl benzoate in 8 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1.9 g 3.30 mmol 97 purity 92 yield of an oil are isolated.

464.2 mg 2.04 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene and 353.05 mg 2.55 mmol of potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 700.8 mg 1.7 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 65 ml of acetonitrile and the mixture is stirred under reflux for 12 hours. After cooling the potassium carbonate is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 945 mg 1.7 mmol 99.5 yield are obtained.

460 mg 2 mmol of 1 chloromethyl 4 2 phenylethyl benzene preparation according to M. Carrara et al. 47 7 803 809 1997 and 414 mg 3 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 411 mg 1 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the organic phase is evaporated and the resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 431 mg 0.7 mmol 65 yield of a solid are obtained.

7 g 30.56 mmol of ethyl 4 bromobenzoate are dissolved in 60 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 6.96 g 36.67 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 271 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 40.7 ml of a 2 M aqueous sodium carbonate solution are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelute washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 . 6.31 g 21.4 mmol 70 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

12.73 ml 12.73 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF are added dropwise to a solution of 6.24 g 21.21 mmol of ethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate in 60 ml of dry THF at 0 C. After reaction is complete saturated ammonium chloride solution is added to the mixture which is taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 5.1 g 20.21 mmol 95 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

2.89 ml 39.65 mmol of thionyl chloride dissolved in 10 ml of chloroform are added to a solution of 5.0 g 19.82 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 yl methanol in 40 ml of chloroform and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is evaporated to dryness and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium carbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated after filtration. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . 5.26 g 19.43 mmol 98 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

10 g 36.94 mmol of 4 chloromethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl and 6.13 g 44.33 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 4.59 g 36.94 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 200 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. The organic phase is evaporated and the crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 11.8 g 32.92 mmol 89 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 11.7 g 32.65 mmol of 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl methanol in 100 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 10.64 g 31.02 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated under reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then evaporated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid. After filtration the solid is dried in a drying oven at 50 C. overnight. 20.5 g 30 mmol 92 yield of crystalline product are obtained.

8.55 ml 64.69 mmol of 4 toluoyl chloride are added dropwise to 10.52 ml 109.96 mmol of tert butanol and 10.46 ml 129.37 mmol of pyridine while cooling in ice. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After reaction is complete water is added and the mixture is extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed successively with sodium bicarbonate solution water and sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 . 7.76 g 40.36 mmol 62 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless oil.

With exclusion of oxygen 11.79 ml 84.11 mmol of diisopropylamine are introduced into 40 ml of THF and cooled to 78 C. and 52.57 ml 84.11 mmol of n butyllithium 1.6 M solution in hexane are slowly added dropwise. The mixture is stirred at 78 C. for 10 minutes and then 10.17 ml 84.11 mmol of 1 3 dimethyltetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone are added. After 15 minutes 7.7 g 40.05 mmol of tert butyl 4 methylbenzoate dissolved in 40 ml of THF are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred for a further 15 minutes. 3.25 ml 42.05 mmol of methyl chloroformate are separately dissolved in 20 ml of THF cooled to 70 C. and then rapidly added to the reaction mixture. After a further 15 minutes ammonium chloride solution is added to the reaction mixture which is warmed to room temperature. It is diluted with water and the phases are separated. The aqueous phase is extracted twice with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 . 4.2 g 16.78 mmol 40 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless oil.

A solution of 4.2 g 16.78 mmol of tert butyl 4 2 methoxy 2 oxoethyl benzoate in 50 ml of water and 50 ml of THF is mixed with 0.8 g 33.6 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The phases are separated and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 2 M hydrochloric acid. It is extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is then washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. 3.6 g 15.2 mmol 87 yield of the title compound are obtained.

30.47 ml 30.47 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex solution are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 3.6 g 15.24 mmol of 4 tert butoxycarbonyl phenyl acetic acid in 100 ml of THF at 10 C. with exclusion of oxygen. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 4 hours. Subsequently ammonium chloride solution is added and the mixture is extracted with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases are washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. 3.2 g 14.4 mmol 92 yield of the title compound are obtained.

7.16 g 21.59 mmol of tetrabromomethane and 5.66 g 21.59 mmol of triphenylphosphine are dissolved in 70 ml of THF with exclusion of oxygen and stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. Then 3.2 g 14.4 mmol of tert butyl 4 2 hydroxyethyl benzoate dissolved in 30 ml of THF are added dropwise and the reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the mixture is evaporated to dryness and the resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 3.9 g 13.7 mmol 87 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless oil.

0.6 g 14.92 mmol of sodium hydride is added in portions to a solution of 4.13 g 12.43 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate in 40 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 1 hour. The reaction solution is then cooled again to 0 C. 3.9 g 13.68 mmol of tert butyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate in 10 ml of DMF are added and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is added to ice water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness in vacuo and the resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 933 mg 1.7 mmol 14 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 0.79 ml 5.66 mmol of triethylamine and 0.16 ml 4.29 mmol of formic acid in 10 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 920 mg 1.71 mmol of diallyl 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl phenyl ethyl 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl malonate 31.5 mg 0.12 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 7.7 mg 0.03 mmol of palladium acetate in 10 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 497 mg 1.2 mmol 61 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

1.81 ml 1.81 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 497 mg 1.2 mmol of 4 4 tert butoxycarbonyl phenyl 2 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl butanoic acid in 10 ml of THF at 15 C. and the reaction mixture is stirred at this temperature for 3 hours. After reaction is complete saturated ammonium chloride solution is added to the reaction mixture and it is extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 403 mg 1.0 mmol 81 yield of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 400 mg 1 mmol of tert butyl methyl 4 4 2 hydroxymethyl butane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate in 20 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 5 g of 4 molecular sieves and 176.4 mg 1.51 mmol of N methylmorpholine N oxide and stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes. Subsequently 17.6 mg 0.05 mmol of tetrapropylammonium perruthenate are added and the reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. The molecular sieves are filtered off through kieselguhr and the filtrate is concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 200 mg 0.5 mmol 50 yield of a colourless solid are obtained and are directly reacted further.

0.47 ml 0.76 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane is slowly added to a solution of 412 mg 0.61 mmol of triphenyl 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxybenzyl phosphonium bromide in 10 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 200 mg 0.5 mmol of tert butyl methyl 4 4 2 formylbutane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate are metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and after addition of a little water evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 20 1 . 270 mg 0.37 mmol 70 yield of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 100 mg 0.14 mmol of methyl 4 3E Z 2 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl phenyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 4 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 1 ml 13 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The mixture is evaporated and the residue is partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 56 mg 0.08 mmol 55 yield of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 139 mg 0.73 mmol of 4 4 4 trifluoro 1 bromobutane and stirred under reflux for 12 h. After conversion is complete the salts are filtered off and the mother liquor evaporated. 253 mg 0.49 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.9 g 4.5 mmol 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 2 g 4.9 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 1 g 7.3 mmol of potassium carbonate and 3.63 ml 58 mmol of iodomethane.

A solution of 744 mg 1.75 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 methoxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 24 ml of THF and 24 ml of water is mixed with 84 mg 3.5 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is diluted with diethyl ether and water and the phases are separated. The aqueous phase is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted with diethyl ether. The resulting organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. 606 mg 1.5 mmol 97 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

224 mg 0.48 mmol 85 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 100 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 bromobutane.

196 mg 0.41 mmol 70 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 110 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 pentyl bromide.

190 mg 0.37 mmol 67 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 120 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 hexyl bromide.

190 mg 0.37 mmol 67 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 131 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 heptyl bromide.

809 mg 1.87 mmol of benzyltriphenylphosphine are suspended in 30 ml of THF and cooled to 0 C. with exclusion of oxygen. At this temperature 1.46 ml 2.33 mmol of n butyllithium 1.6 M solution in hexane are added dropwise and the mixture is then stirred for 45 minutes. Subsequently 500 mg 1.56 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate dissolved in 10 ml of THF are rapidly added dropwise to the reaction solution. It is then stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and after slowly warming to room temperature stirred for a further 3 h. Ammonium chloride solution is added to the reaction solution which is evaporated. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and extracted with water. The organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 484 mg 1.2 mmol 79 of theory of the title compound are obtained and are reacted directly without further characterization.

5 g 26 mmol of 2 trifluoromethoxybenzyl bromide and 8.5 g 24.7 mmol of triphenylphosphonium bromide are stirred under reflux in 100 ml of acetonitrile for 3 h. After cooling the resulting precipitate is filtered off with suction and dried. 13.5 g 26 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

3.38 g 6.5 mmol of triphenyl 2 trifluoromethoxy benzyl phosphonium bromide are suspended in 80 ml of THF and cooled to 0 C. with exclusion of oxygen. At this temperature 5.1 ml 8.2 mmol of n butyllithium 1.6 M solution in hexane are added dropwise and then the mixture is stirred for 45 minutes. Subsequently 1.75 g 5.45 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate dissolved in 20 ml of THF are rapidly added dropwise to the reaction solution. It is stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and then warmed slowly to room temperature and stirred for a further 3 h. The reaction solution is mixed with ammonium chloride solution and evaporated. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and extracted with water. The organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 2.065 g 4.3 mmol 79 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 149 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 1 1 trifluoro 5 bromopentane CAS Reg. No. 54932 74 00 and stirred under reflux for 12 h. After conversion is complete the salts are filtered off and the mother liquor is evaporated. 205 mg 0.28 mmol 79 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 145 mg 0.73 mmol of 3 bromopropyl benzene and 100.76 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and then stirred under reflux for 12 h. After cooling the potassium carbonate is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated. 278 mg 0.45 mmol 93 of theory content 86 of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 155 mg 0.73 mmol of 4 bromobutyl benzene and 100.76 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and then stirred under reflux for 12 h. After cooling the potassium carbonate is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated. 308 mg 0.41 mmol 85 of theory content 73 of the title compound are obtained.

196 mg 0.44 mmol 85 of theory content 93 of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 100.76 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 79.44 mg 0.73 mmol of bromoethane.

201 mg 0.35 mmol 72 of theory content 79 of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 30A starting from 200 mg 0.486 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate 100.76 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and 89.67 mg 0.73 mmol of 1 bromopropane.

19.79 g 0.494 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 121.5 g 0.659 mol of diallyl malonate in 1.5 litres of dioxane at 0 C. caution evolution of hydrogen . After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently 50 g 0.329 mol of 4 chloromethylbenzonitrile dissolved in 500 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH remains 

7.13 g 178.36 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 48.53 g 162.14 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl malonate from Example 45A in 180 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled again to 0 C. 55 g 194.57 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS Reg. No. 136333 97 6 in 195 ml of DMF are added and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is subsequently stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 . 33.4 g 72.37 mmol 44 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 7.5 g 16.25 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate from Example 46A 0.3 g 1.14 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 70 mg of palladium acetate in 170 ml of dioxane is mixed at room temperature with a solution of 7.47 ml 53.63 mmol of triethylamine and 1.53 ml 40.63 mmol of formic acid in 170 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 h. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are subsequently combined washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solution is evaporated in vacuo. 5.48 g 89 of theory 90 purity of a colourless solid are obtained.

47.43 ml 47.43 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 8 g 23.71 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate from Example 47A in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After the mixture has warmed to 5 C. it is stirred at this temperature for 4 h. After the reaction is complete the reaction mixture is mixed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulphate and after filtration again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 10 . 5.8 g 98 purity 74 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

320 mg 1.48 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 400 mg 1.24 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 hydroxybutyl benzoate from Example 48A in 7 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 1 g of silica gel is added and the solvent is removed in vacuo to dryness. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 302 mg 90 purity 69 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

73.8 ml 118 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 23.22 g 51.7 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 130 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 15.5 g 42 mmol content 87 of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzoate from Example 49A dissolved in 130 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 h and after addition of a little water evaporated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 11.3 g 27.5 mmol 65 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

11.3 g 27.5 mmol of the racemic methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 4.14 g and 3.69 g of the two E isomers are obtained in each case as enantiopure colourless solids see Examples 51A and 52A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 4.6 mm 5 m eluent isohexane isopropanol 50 50 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 210 nm temperature 25 C.

1.34 g 55 mmol of activated magnesium turnings are added to a solution of 11.25 g 50 mmol of 1 bromo 4 trifluoromethyl benzene in 50 ml of THF at room temperature. The reaction solution heats up until it refluxes exothermic reaction during which the magnesium turnings almost completely dissolve. After the exothermic reaction subsides the dark brown solution is stirred under reflux for a further 15 min. The approx. 1 M Grignard solution obtained in this way is then cooled to room temperature again.

In parallel with this a pale green solution of 359 mg 2.5 mmol of copper I bromide and 435 mg 5 mmol of anhydrous lithium bromide in 10 ml of THF is mixed at room temperature with a solution of 20.5 ml 150 mmol of 1 5 dibromopentane in 40 ml of THF. The reaction mixture is heated to a bath temperature of 40 C. and then the freshly prepared Grignard solution is slowly added. After addition of the Grignard solution is complete the reaction mixture is stirred at 50 55 C. for 1.5 h and subsequently stirred at room temperature overnight. Ammonium chloride solution 20 g of ammonium chloride in 100 ml of water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is hydrolysed while cooling in ice. The mixture is extracted three times with diethyl ether and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by fractional distillation. 7.11 g 24.1 mmol 48 of theory boiling point 80 C. 0.15 Torr of a colourless oil are obtained.

5 g 22.6 mmol of 2 methoxy N 2 methoxyethyl N trifluoro sulphanyl ethanamine dissolved in 6 ml of dichloromethane are slowly added to a solution of 2.527 g 13.29 mmol of trifluoromethoxybenzaldehyde in 6 ml of dichloromethane at room temperature under argon. 155 l of ethanol are then metered into the reaction solution during which the temperature rises slightly to 29 C. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. After conversion is complete reaction checked by GC MS the reaction solution is slowly hydrolysed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution strong evolution of gas and taken up in water dichloromethane. The organic phase is separated off dried over magnesium sulphate and after filtration evaporated in vacuo. 2.38 g 11.22 mmol 84.4 of theory of a colourless liquid are obtained.

A solution of 2.38 g 11.22 mmol of 1 difluoromethyl 4 trifluoromethoxy benzene and 6.19 g 34.78 mmol of N bromosuccinimide NBS in 25 ml of tetrachloromethane is irradiated with exclusion of oxygen using a sun lamp. During this the solvent reaches its boiling point. It is irradiated under reflux for 48 hours. The mixture is then allowed to cool to room temperature precipitated succinimide is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 1.73 g 5.94 mmol 53 of theory of a yellowish oil are obtained.

A solution of 150 mg 0.365 mmol of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate enantiomer 1 Example 51A in 3 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 139 mg 0.47 mmol of 1 chloromethyl 4 1 2 2 2 tetrafluoro 1 trifluoromethyl ethyl benzene prepared as described in EP 0 009 787 A2 and 100 mg 0.73 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 210 mg 0.31 mmol 86 of theory of an oil are isolated.

27.1 g 159.28 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate are introduced into 500 ml of dry THF with exclusion of oxygen and cooled to 0 C. Subsequently while cooling 238 ml 238 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminium hydride in THF are slowly added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then at RT overnight. After reaction is complete saturated ammonium chloride solution is added to the mixture and it is taken up in dichloromethane. The organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . 18.0 g 126.6 mmol 79 of theory of a colourless solid are isolated.

18.6 g 130.87 mmol of 4 fluoro 2 hydroxymethyl phenol and 42.67 g 124.32 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide are stirred under reflux in 186 ml of acetonitrile for 3 h. After cooling the resulting precipitate is filtered off with suction and dried. 58 g 124 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 42.61 g 128 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate in 450 ml of DMF is mixed at room temperature with 62.66 g 192 mmol of caesium carbonate and 46.75 g 154 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS Reg. No. 136333 97 6 . The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is evaporated to dryness and the residue is taken up in water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are then washed with saturated brine and dried over sodium sulphate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 13 1 . 41.35 g 83.6 mmol 65 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 40 g 80.9 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylmalonate 1.49 g 5.67 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 363 mg of palladium acetate in 500 ml of dioxane is mixed at room temperature with a solution of 37.2 ml 267 mmol of triethylamine and 7.6 ml 202 mmol of formic acid in 100 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 110 C. overnight. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 20.98 g 56.6 mmol 70 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

112.8 ml 112.8 mmol of a 1 M boran THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 20.9 g 56.4 mmol of 2 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 4 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl butanoic acid in 600 ml of THF at 10 C. The reaction mixture is then warmed to 0 C. and stirred at this temperature for 4 h. After reaction is complete saturated ammonium chloride solution is added to the reaction mixture which is diluted with water and ethyl acetate the phases are separated and the aqueous phase is back extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulphate and after filtration freed of solvent in vacuo. 20.11 g 94 purity 100 of theory of a colourless solid are obtained.

A solution of 18.02 g 50.5 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 2 hydroxymethyl butane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate in 350 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 13.07 g 60.6 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete about 60 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed in vacuo to dryness. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 4 1 . 14.73 g 41.46 mmol 82 of theory of a colourless oil are obtained.

21.65 ml 54.12 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 10.84 g 23.2 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide in 150 ml of THF at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 45 min. Subsequently at this temperature 6.85 g 19.33 mmol of dimethyl 4 4 2 formylbutane 1 4 diyl dibenzoate in 100 ml of THF are slowly metered in. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 3 h and after addition of saturated ammonium chloride solution diluted with water and ethyl acetate the organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is back extracted twice more with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulphate and filtered and the solvent is removed to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 8.21 g 17.75 mmol 76 of theory of a yellowish oil are obtained.

A solution of 1.4 g 3.03 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 30 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 868 mg 3.6 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 4 trifluoromethyl benzene and 627 mg 4.5 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 1.23 g 1.98 mmol 65 of theory of a colourless oil are isolated.

LC MS method 8 R 5.01 min m z 621 M H . 412 mg 0.66 mmol of the racemic methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 93 mg and 87 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure as colourless solids see Examples 65A and 66A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isohexane isopropanol 60 40 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 28 C.

A solution of 750 mg 1.62 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 19 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 496 mg 1.95 mmol of 1 bromomethyl 4 trifluoromethoxy benzene and 336 mg 2.43 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 883 mg 1.39 mmol 85 of theory of a colourless oil are isolated.

880 mg 1.38 mmol of the racemic methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethoxy benzyl oxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 444 mg and 320 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure as colourless solids see Examples 68A and 69A .

Column Daicel Chiralpalc AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isohexane isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 25 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 176 mg 0.73 mmol of 6 bromohexyl benzene and 101 mg 0.73 mmol of potassium carbonate and then stirred under reflux for 12 h. After cooling the potassium carbonate is filtered off and the filtrate is evaporated. 364 mg 0.48 mmol 98 of theory purity 76 of a yellowish oil are obtained.

1.125 g 28.14 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 6.91 g 37.52 mmol of diallyl malonate in 50 ml of dioxane at 0 C. caution evolution of hydrogen . After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 h. Then 4.56 g 18.76 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS Reg. No. 136333 97 6 dissolved in 20 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH remains 

A solution of 664 mg 1.62 mmol of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate enantiomer 1 Example 51A in 28 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1743 mg 8.07 mmol of 1 4 dibromobutane and 446 mg 3.23 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 790 mg 1.44 mmol 89 of theory of a colourless oil are isolated.

A solution of 392 mg 0.72 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 bromobutoxy phenyl 3 4 cyanobenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 174 mg 1.08 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenol and 148 mg 1.08 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. 450 mg 0.61 mmol purity 86 86 of theory of a yellowish oil are isolated.

A solution of 392 mg 0.72 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 bromobutoxy phenyl 3 4 cyanobenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 120 mg 1.08 mmol of 4 fluorophenol and 148 mg 1.08 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and then heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently filtered and the filtrate is evaporated to dryness. 445 mg 0.71 mmol purity 93 99 of theory of a yellowish oil are isolated.

A solution of 430 mg 0.77 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate in 20 ml of 1 propanol is mixed with 1.73 g 30.84 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 5 hours. The mixture is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and evaporated. The resulting residue is purified directly by preparative HPLC. 290 mg 0.52 mmol 53 yield of the title compound are obtained.

290 mg 0.52 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 carboxybenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 90 mg and 102 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure as colourless solids see Examples 2 and 3 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 600 mg 1.08 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 15 ml of 1 propanol is mixed with 2.4 g 43 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 7 hours. The mixture is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and evaporated. The resulting residue is directly purified by preparative HPLC. 235 mg 0.42 mmol 38 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless solid.

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 27 C.

A solution of 400 mg 0.66 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 4 2 phenylethyl benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 20 ml of 1 propanol is mixed with 1.48 g 26.4 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 5 hours. The mixture is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and evaporated. The resulting residue is directly purified by preparative HPLC. 280 mg 0.46 mmol 58 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless solid.

280 mg 0.46 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 4 2 phenylethyl benzyl oxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 111 mg and 123 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure as colourless solids see Examples 8 and 9 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 56 mg 0.08 mmol of methyl 4 4E Z 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 2 ml of water and 2 ml of THF is mixed with 4 mg 0.17 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. The mixture is diluted with water adjusted to pH 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulphate and evaporated. 44.6 mg 0.07 mmol 78 yield of the title compound are obtained as a colourless solid.

A solution of 265 mg 0.51 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 4 4 4 trifluorobutoxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate in 15 ml of 1 propanol is mixed with 1.14 g 20.3 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction and dried. 250 mg 0.47 mmol 93 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

654 mg 1.5 mmol 99 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 632 mg 1.54 mmol of 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 methoxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoic Acid and 3.45 g 61.4 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

163 mg 0.34 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 methoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 69 mg and 49 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 13 and 14 .

Column Daicel Chiralcel OD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min uV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

169 mg 0.36 mmol 76 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 220 mg 0.47 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 butoxyphenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 1 g 18.8 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

160 mg 0.33 mmol 74 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 195 mg 0.41 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 pentyloxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 909 mg 16.2 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

160 mg 0.33 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 pentyloxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 55 mg and 49 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 17 and 18 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 25 75 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

159 mg 0.32 mmol 83 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 190 mg 0.38 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hexyloxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 860 mg 15.3 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 25 75 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

190 mg 0.37 mmol 99 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 190 mg 0.37 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 heptyloxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 837 mg 14.9 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

453 mg 1.13 mmol 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 484 mg 1.22 mmol of methyl 4 3E Z 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 phenylbut 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 2.75 g 48.95 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

450 mg 1.12 mmol of the racemic 4 4E Z 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 phenylpentn 1 yl benzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 123 mg and 127 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 24 and 25 .

Column Daicel Chiralcel OD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 50 50 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 40 C.

440 mg 0.91 mmol 87 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 500 mg 1.043 mmol of methyl 4 3E Z 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 trifluoromethoxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 2.34 g 41.7 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

440 mg 0.91 mmol of the racemic 4 4E Z 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 trifluoromethoxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 108 mg and 107 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 27 and 28 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 25 75 v v flow rate 15 mimin UV detection 220 nm temperature 29 C.

21 mg 0.05 mmol 10 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 200 mg 0.44 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 propoxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate and 989.5 mg 17.6 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

11 mg 0.02 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 propoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 6 mg and 4 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 30 and 31 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 28 72 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

60 mg 0.13 mmol 30 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 195 mg 0.44 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 ethoxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate and 995.6 mg 17.7 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

52 mg 0.12 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 ethoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 24 mg and 25 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 33 and 34 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent ethanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 20 80 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

194 mg 0.34 mmol purity 94 67 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 270 mg 0.51 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 3 phenylpropoxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 1143 mg 20.4 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

190 mg 0.35 mmol of the 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 3 phenylpropoxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 93 mg and 90 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 36 and 37 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 23 77 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 30 C.

74 mg 0.13 mmol 24 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 300 mg 0.55 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 4 phenylbutoxy phenyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and 1238 mg 22 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

60 mg 0.11 mmol of the 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 4 phenylbutoxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 20 mg and 28 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 39 and 40 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 23 77 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 30 C.

148 mg 0.27 mmol 52 of theory of the title compound are obtained by the process described in Example 11 starting from 280 mg 0.52 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 5 5 5 trifluoropentyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate and 1173 mg 20.9 mmol of potassium hydroxide.

148 mg 0.27 mmol of the 4 4E 3 4 carboxybenzyl 5 2 5 5 5 trifluoropentyl oxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoic Acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 71 mg and 55 mg of the two E isomers are obtained in each case enantiopure see Examples 42 and 43 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 23 77 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 170 mg 0.25 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 4 1 2 2 2 tetrafluoro 1 trifluoromethyl ethyl benzyloxy phenyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 3 ml of 1 propanol and 2 ml of water is mixed with 427 mg 7.6 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed several times with water and dried. 135 mg 0.2 mmol 79 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 523 mg 0.84 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxyphenyl 3 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate enantiomer 1 Example 65A in 8 ml of THF and 4 ml of water is mixed with 101 mg 4.2 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed several times with water and dried. 457 mg 0.77 mmol 91 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 360 mg 0.48 mmol purity 76 of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 6 phenylhexyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 15 ml of 1 propanol is mixed with 1452 mg 25.9 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed several times with water and dried. 22 mg 0.04 mmol 8 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 450 mg 0.72 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 4 4 trifluoromethyl phenoxy butoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 15 ml of 1 propanol and 2 ml of water is mixed with 1207 mg 21.5 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed several times with water and dried. 447 mg 0.65 mmol 90 of theory purity 92 of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 460 mg 0.80 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 4 4 fluorophenoxy butoxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 15 ml of 1 propanol and 2 ml of water is mixed with 1340 mg 23.89 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed several times with water and dried. 325 mg 0.52 mmol 65 of theory purity 93 of the title compound are obtained.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anaesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with 95 O 5 COand has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the haem dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The haem free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 5 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the haem containing and of the haem free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 5 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a haem dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the haem dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anaesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of the infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compound of Example 20 shows a marked reduction in blood pressure over a period of 11 hours after oral administration of 0.3 mg kg in this test.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

