---

title: Device having selective directional tactile feedback capability
abstract: Directional haptic feedback for a haptic feedback interface device. A haptic feedback interface device, in communication with a host computer, includes a housing physically contacted by a user operating the interface device, and a plurality of actuators producing inertial forces when the actuators are driven by control signals. Each of the actuators includes a rotatable eccentric mass positioned offset on a rotating shaft of the actuator, where the actuators are rotated simultaneously such that centrifugal forces from the rotation of masses combine to output the inertial forces substantially only along a single axis having a desired direction approximately in a plane of rotation of the masses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07979797&OS=07979797&RS=07979797
owner: Immersion Corporation
number: 07979797
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060425
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 968 725 filed Sep. 28 2001 now U.S. Pat. No.7 182 691 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 236 897 filed Sep. 28 2000 entitled Directional Inertial Tactile Feedback Using Rotating Masses which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to tactile human computer interface devices and more specifically to enhancing vibration feedback in such interface devices.

Computer devices are widely used for activities such as playing games. Currently popular gaming computer devices include game consoles connected to a home television set such as the Nintendo 64 from Nintendo Corp. the Playstation from Sony Corp. the X box from Microsoft Corp. and the Dreamcast from Sega Corp. Gaming computer devices also include personal computers such as Windows PCs Macintosh computers and others. Also portable computer devices are often used for entertainment purposes such as Game Boy from Nintendo personal digital assistants such as PalmPilot from Palm Computing and laptop computers. These devices can be used for other activities as well.

Users of computer devices typically interact with a game or other application program using an interface device connected to the host computer e.g. game console . Such interface devices may include joysticks gamepads knobs mice trackballs styluses steering wheels or other devices. A user moves a user manipulatable object manipulandum such as a joystick wheel mouse button dial or other object which is sensed by the host computer and used to manipulate a graphical environment displayed by the host computer. Recently haptic feedback has become available in interface devices where the host computer and or a processor on the interface device controls one or more motors to output forces to the user. These forces are correlated with events or objects in the graphical environment to further immerse the user in the gaming experience or interface task. Herein the term haptic feedback is intended to include both tactile feedback forces transmitted to user skin surfaces and kinesthetic feedback forces provided in degree s of freedom of motion of the manipulandum .

In some markets such as the game console market products are typically produced in high volume and low cost. In these markets haptic feedback interface devices have been typically limited to simpler embodiments that provide more limited forms of haptic feedback such as tactile inertial feedback. Existing haptic feedback gamepad controllers or add on hardware for gamepad controllers that are used to interface with games running on game consoles include the Dual Shock from Sony Corp. the Rumble Pak from Nintendo Corp. and the Jump Pack from Sega Corp as well as other types of handheld controllers such as the MadCatz Dual Force Racing Wheel. These devices are inertial tactile feedback controllers which employ one or more motors to shake the housing of the controller and thus provide output sensations such as vibrations to the user which are correlated to game events and interactions. Typically an eccentric rotating mass ERM motor i.e. pager motor is used to generate sensations on the controller and thus to the user. The motor is rigidly coupled to the controller housing and provides a inertial mass on a rotating shaft offset from the axis of rotation so that when the shaft is rotated the inertial forces from the mass rock the motor and the gamepad housing back and forth. Additional motors are used to provide stronger forces or to output force sensations of different frequencies or magnitudes.

One problem with such existing tactile controllers is that they can provide output inertial forces only in the general directions swirl of the rotating mass. The sensations thus feel to the user as if they are not output in any particular direction but are simply output on the housing of the device. However many events in games and other computer implemented environments are direction based. For example in a driving game the user may be driving a vehicle that impacts a side wall or gets impacted by another vehicle. These events should cause directional forces on the interface device to allow the user a more realistic simulation of the event thus if the user s car is impacted on the left a force should be output on the device in the corresponding direction. However the haptic inertial devices currently available do not allow such directional output of inertial forces.

The present invention is directed toward providing directional haptic feedback for a haptic feedback interface device.

More particularly a haptic feedback interface device of the present invention is in communication with a host computer and outputs directional inertial sensations to a user which can be based on interactions and events occurring in a graphical environment displayed by the host computer. The device includes a housing physically contacted by a user operating the interface device and a plurality of actuators producing inertial forces when the actuators are driven by control signals. Each of the actuators includes a rotatable eccentric mass positioned offset on a rotating shaft of the actuator where the actuators are rotated simultaneously such that centrifugal forces from the rotation of masses combine to output the inertial forces substantially only along a single axis having a desired direction approximately in a plane of rotation of the masses.

A phase difference between the eccentric masses of the actuators can determine a direction of the single desired axis. The eccentric masses can be rotated in opposite directions. The actuators can be positioned side by side such that axes of rotation of the masses are approximately parallel or the actuators can be positioned facing each other such that axes of rotation of the masses are approximately colinear. Each actuator can include a sensor that detects a rotational position of the eccentric mass. The desired directional axis of output can be determined by an event or interaction occurring within said graphical environment such as a collision in a game. A method of the present invention provides a phase difference between eccentric masses and rotates the eccentric masses to provide inertial sensations along a desired direction.

The present invention advantageously provides a device that provides directional tactile feedback sensations in a low cost interface device which allows for much greater varieties and types of sensations for such interface devices. This allows the experience of playing a game or interacting with other types of computer applications to be more realistic and compelling for the user.

These and other advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the following specification of the invention and a study of the several figures of the drawing.

This application describes techniques and devices that provide directional inertial forces for tactile feedback devices using rotating mass actuators. Herein the term inertial tactile feedback device or inertial feedback device is intended to refer to any controller or interface device that outputs inertial forces to the user of the device with respect to an inertial mass acting as an inertial ground and can include gamepads handheld steering wheels fishing type controllers joysticks or handles thereof mice trackballs adult devices grips remote controls handheld game devices flat screens styluses etc.

Controller can use two or more individual actuators each actuator having an eccentric rotating mass ERM . The preferred actuator assemblies for use in the present invention are described below with reference to . Individual games running on the host console unit or other host computer may control when the actuators are activated by sending commands or signals to the controllers to correlate haptic feedback with game events. Alternatively the games can provide high level commands to a processor on the device as described below.

In its most direct operation the ERM can be rotated in only one direction at a desired frequency to produce an inertial oscillating force or vibration at that frequency. Each output frequency has a magnitude associated with it so that high frequency vibrations tend to have higher magnitudes than low frequency vibrations. Alternatively control techniques can be used to independently control magnitude and frequency of vibrations output by an ERM driven in only one direction. For example a pulse can be applied each period of the sine wave to cause oscillations or pulses at a desired frequency and magnitude. Several of these techniques are disclosed in copending application Ser. No. 09 669 029 filed Sep. 25 2000 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In alternate embodiments other types of interface devices can be used with the present invention such as handheld or surface grounded steering wheels fishing type controllers joysticks mice knobs trackballs adult devices grips remote controls PDA s handheld game devices flat screens cell phones styluses etc.

Host computer is any of a variety of computing or electronic devices. In one preferred embodiment computer is a personal computer game console or workstation such as a PC compatible computer or Macintosh personal computer or game console system from Nintendo Corp. Sega Corp. Sony Corp. or Microsoft Corp. In other embodiments host computer can be a set top box which can be used for example to provide interactive television functions to users or a network or internet computer which allows users to interact with a local or global network using standard connections and protocols such as used for the Internet and World Wide Web. Some embodiments may provide a host computer within the same casing or housing as the interface device or manipulandum that is held or contacted by the user e.g. hand held video game units portable computers arcade game machines etc. Host computer preferably includes a host microprocessor random access memory RAM read only memory ROM input output I O circuitry an audio output device and other components of computers well known to those skilled in the art. Other types of peripherals can also be coupled to host computer such as storage devices hard disk drive CD ROM drive floppy disk drive etc. printers and other input and output devices.

A visual display device is preferably connected or part of the computer and displays visual images of a graphical environment such as a game environment operating system application simulation etc. Display device can be any of a variety of types of devices such as LCD displays LED displays CRT s flat panel screens display goggles etc.

Host computer preferably implements a host application program with which a user is interacting via the interface device and other peripherals if appropriate. For example the host application program can be a video game word processor or spreadsheet Web page or browser that implements HTML or VRML instructions scientific analysis program virtual reality training program or application or other application program that utilizes input of device and outputs haptic feedback commands to the device or a different layer can output such commands such as an API or driver program on the host . The host program checks for input signals received from the electronics and sensors of device and outputs force values and or commands to be converted into forces output for device . Suitable software drivers which interface such simulation software with computer input output I O devices are available from Immersion Corporation of San Jose Calif.

Several different layers of programs can be running on the host computer . For example at an application layer one or more application programs can be running such as a game program word processing program etc. Several sub layers can also be provided such as an Application Programming Interface API layer e.g. used in Windows OS from Microsoft Corp. and different driver layers. The application program can command forces directly or a driver program can monitor interactions within an application program and command haptic effects when predetermined conditions are met. In one embodiment a haptic feedback driver program can receive kinesthetic haptic commands from an application program and can map the commands to tactile inertial commands and effects and then send the necessary information to the interface device .

Interface device is coupled to host computer by a bi directional bus . The bi directional bus sends signals in either direction between host computer and the interface device. For example bus can be a serial interface bus such as an RS232 serial interface RS 422 Universal Serial Bus USB MIDI or other protocols well known to those skilled in the art or a parallel bus or wireless link. For example the USB standard provides a relatively high speed interface that can also provide power to actuators of device .

Interface device can in many embodiments include a local processor . Local processor can optionally be included within the housing of device to allow efficient communication with other components of the device. Processor is considered local to device where local herein refers to processor being a separate processor from any processors in host computer . Local also preferably refers to processor being dedicated to haptic feedback and sensor I O of device . Processor can be provided with software instructions to wait for commands or requests from host decode or parse the command or request and handle control input and output signals according to the command or request. In some embodiments processor can operate independently of host computer by reading sensor signals and calculating appropriate forces from those sensor signals time signals and stored or relayed instructions selected in accordance with a high level host command. Suitable microprocessors for use as local processor include the MC68HC711E9 by Motorola the PIC16C74 by Microchip and the 82930AX by Intel Corp. for example as well as more sophisticated force feedback processors such as the Immersion Touchsense Processor current versions of which are used with personal computers such as PC s. Processor can include one microprocessor chip multiple processors and or co processor chips and or digital signal processor DSP capability. For example the control techniques described for the present invention can be implemented within firmware of an Immersion TouchSense Processor where the local microprocessor block includes related components such as encoder processing circuitry communication circuitry and PWM circuitry as well as a microprocessor. Various techniques for playing more sophisticated periodics and other sensations such as defined by Immersion protocols with a eccentric rotating mass ERM motor can be provided in the firmware of the processor .

Microprocessor can receive signals from sensors and provide signals to actuators and in accordance with instructions provided by host computer over bus . The microprocessor provides a control signal to the actuators. In one embodiment the control signal is a PWM signal the firmware of processor can generate and send to the amplifier in actuator interface . There is preferably one control signal per motor.

In one local control embodiment host computer provides high level supervisory commands to microprocessor over bus and microprocessor decodes the commands and manages low level force control loops to sensors and the actuator in accordance with the high level commands and independently of the host computer . This operation is described in greater detail in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 739 811 and 5 734 373 both incorporated by reference herein. In the host control loop force commands are output from the host computer to microprocessor and instruct the microprocessor to output a force or force sensation having specified characteristics. The local microprocessor reports data to the host computer such as locative data that describes the position of the mouse in one or more provided degrees of freedom. The data can also describe the states of buttons or other devices of device . The host computer uses the data to update executed programs. In the local control loop actuator signals are provided from the microprocessor to the actuators and sensor signals are provided from the sensors and other input devices to the microprocessor . The microprocessor can process inputted sensor signals to determine appropriate output actuator control signals by following stored instructions. The microprocessor may use sensor signals in the local determination of forces to be output as well as reporting locative data derived from the sensor signals to the host computer.

In yet other embodiments other hardware can be provided locally to device as processor to provide functionality similar to a microprocessor. For example a hardware state machine incorporating fixed logic can be used to provide signals to the actuators and receive sensor signals from sensors and to output tactile signals according to a predefined sequence algorithm or process.

In a different host controlled embodiment host computer can provide low level force commands over bus which are directly transmitted to the actuator via processor or other circuitry if no microprocessor is present . Host computer thus directly controls and processes all signals to and from the device e.g. the host computer directly controls the forces output by actuator or and directly receives sensor signals from sensor and input devices . The host can also stream force values that are sent to the actuators as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 959 613 incorporated herein by reference.

In the simplest host control embodiment the signal from the host to the device can be a single bit that indicates whether to pulse the actuator at a predefined frequency and magnitude. In more complex embodiments the signal from the host can include a magnitude giving the strength of the desired pulse and or a frequency. A local processor can also be used to receive a simple command from the host that indicates a desired force value to apply over time so that the microprocessor outputs the force value for the specified time period based on the one command. The host command may also specify an envelope to provide on a force output to allow force shaping as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 959 613. A combination of numerous methods described above can also be used for a single device .

Local memory such as RAM and or ROM can be coupled to processor in device to store instructions for processor and store temporary and other data. In addition a local clock can be coupled to the processor to provide timing data which might be required for example to compute forces output by actuator. In embodiments using the USB communication interface timing data for processor can be alternatively retrieved from the USB signal.

Sensors sense the position or motion of a manipulandum of the device and provides signals to processor or host including information representative of the position or motion. In some embodiments the manipulandum is one or more small joysticks provided on a gamepad controller and moved by a user in two rotary or linear degrees of freedom to provide control input to the host computer. The manipulandum can also be a direction pad having four or more directions which can provide input to the host computer. The manipulandum can also be a rotary dial linear slider button wheel finger receptacle cylinder or other controlling member. The manipulandum can also be the housing of the device itself as in the case of a mouse or if sensing the position of a gamepad or other controller in 3 D space. Sensors suitable for detecting motion of a joystick or other manipulandum include digital optical encoders frictionally coupled to a rotating ball or cylinder as is well known to those skilled in the art. Mechanical switches linear optical encoders potentiometers optical sensors velocity sensors acceleration sensors strain gauges or other types of sensors can also be used and either relative or absolute sensors can be provided. Optional sensor interface can be used to convert sensor signals to signals that can be interpreted by the processor and or host computer as is well known to those skilled in the art.

Actuators and transmit forces to the user of the device in response to signals or commands received from processor and or host computer . In the preferred embodiment two or more actuators are provided as described below. In one embodiment these actuators are eccentric rotating mass ERM DC motors which are rotary motors having an eccentric mass coupled to the rotating shaft of the motor. When rotated the inertial forces from the rotating mass cause an oscillation or vibration in the housing or other member coupled to the motor housing thus producing tactile sensations to the user who is holding or otherwise contacting the housing. Many different types of actuators can be used e.g. any type of actuator which can rotate an eccentric mass in a direction such as voice coil actuators moving magnet actuators hydraulic or pneumatic actuators torquers brushed or brushless motors etc. Furthermore additional actuators can be included to provide kinesthetic force feedback in the manipulandum . Linear actuators of all types may also be used in which a mass or rotor is linearly oscillated to provide vibrations.

Sensors are preferably provided for each actuator and to sense the position of the actuator shaft and or eccentric mass coupled to the actuator. Examples of sensors are detailed below. The sensors allow the processor or other controller to accurately control the rotation of the actuators and thus control the direction of output inertial forces as described below.

Actuator interface can be optionally connected between actuators and and processor to convert signals from processor into signals appropriate to drive the actuators. Interface can include power amplifiers switches digital to analog controllers DACs analog to digital controllers ADCs and other components as is well known to those skilled in the art. For example in one embodiment the actuators and can be off the shelf ERM motors which are driven unidirectionally. Uni directional voltage mode amplifiers are low cost components that can be used in actuator interface to drive the motors. In bi directional embodiments appropriate bi directional amplifiers and other components may be used.

Other input devices are included in device and send input signals to microprocessor or to host when manipulated by the user. Such input devices can include buttons dials switches scroll wheels or other controls or mechanisms. Power supply can optionally be included in or coupled to device and can be coupled to actuator interface and or actuators and to provide electrical power to the actuators. Alternatively and more preferably power can be drawn from the bus e.g. using a USB or other bus. Also received power can be stored and regulated by device and thus used when needed to drive actuators and or used in a supplementary fashion. Because of the limited power supply capabilities of USB a power storage device may be required in the mouse device to ensure that peak forces can be applied as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 929 607 incorporated herein by reference . For example power can be stored over time in a capacitor or battery and then immediately dissipated to output a haptic sensation. Alternatively this technology can be employed in a wireless device which communicates with the host computer via wireless signals and in which case battery power can be used to drive the actuators.

The present invention provides multiple rotary actuators to allow directional tactile feedback to be output on the interface device. This allows the haptic feedback output from a tactile controller to more accurately correspond to events or interactions occurring within a graphical environment.

Using the present invention vibrations can be output along two orthogonal axes or along both axes simultaneously. These axes can be oriented in any way desired for example both axes may lie in the plane that is parallel to a ground surface or one axis may be positioned in the up down z axis direction orthogonal to the ground surface.

System includes an actuator and an actuator . In the described embodiment the actuators and are positioned side by side such that their axes of rotation are approximately parallel. Actuator includes a rotating shaft which rotates about axis A and is coupled to an eccentric mass . Mass is rotated about axis A to create centrifugal forces that cause inertial vibrations in the housing of the device.

A sensor is also preferably coupled to the actuator to detect the current position of the shaft and the mass . The sensor can take a variety of forms. In one embodiment the sensor can include a slotted optical switch that includes an emitter and detector. The switch is placed adjacent to the eccentric mass . A flag can be fixed to the eccentric mass so that the flag rotates through the switch upon each revolution. The switch thus generates a pulse each time the flag rotates through the switch. This sensor information informs a controller such as a local microprocessor host microprocessor or other control device the speed of rotation of the eccentric mass and allows the controller to adjust that speed if necessary to keep the masses of the actuators in synchronization and enable directional forces to be output as explained below. Alternatively the flag can be positioned on a separate disk or other member coupled to the rotating shaft . Additional flags can also be fixed to the eccentric mass at different positions to allow a greater sensing resolution.

In another embodiment the sensor can be an optical encoder which can be positioned at one end of the actuator as shown. The optical encoder includes an encoder disk which is coupled to the shaft and rotates therewith. An emitter detector is positioned around the encoder disk as shown to detect the rotation of the disk as is well known to those skilled in the art. The optical encoder is able to read the position of the shaft and mass with much greater precision and a resolution dependent on the spacing of the slots or marks on the encoder disk. This allows the controller to keep the rotating masses of the actuators in synchronization to a more precise degree than the sensor . Furthermore the encoder disk can include a larger mark or slot or other distinguishing feature to allow the absolute sensing of mass position similar to the switch and flag . The resolution of the optical encoder need not be very high e.g. every 45 degrees or 8 steps per revolution allowing a lower cost sensor to be used. Some embodiments can include both the optical switch flag as an absolute sensor and the optical encoder as a higher resolution relative sensor .

Actuator is similar to actuator and includes a shaft that is coupled to an eccentric mass that rotates about an axis B. An optical switch can be included to detect the passage of a flag coupled to the mass as described above. An optical encoder can also be provided including an emitter detector and encoder disk .

Actuators and are preferably oriented so that the axes of rotation A and B are approximately parallel. Furthermore the eccentric masses and are preferably oriented to rotate in approximately the same plane. This allows the forces output by the moving masses to combine in the desired manner as described below. In other embodiments additional actuators and sensors can be provided to increase the magnitude of output directional forces.

At each step the actuators and are shown side by side as in . The masses and are rotated in opposite directions in the shown figures the mass is rotated counterclockwise and the mass rotated clockwise. In each figure a direction of rotation is shown as well as a resultant centrifugal force F resulting from the rotation of the mass. In the column to the right of the figures a resultant force is shown for each time step. In this Figure the masses are synchronized and have a zero phase difference.

At time t 0 the masses and are in their starting positions in which each mass is at a zero degree position the up direction in the figures . The masses can also be in this position after one or more rotations. If so a resultant force having a magnitude of 2 F is output in the direction of 0 degrees. This resultant force is simply the addition of each force F due to the masses being in the same position. Preferably if the masses have become unsynchronized the controller microprocessor etc. uses the sensors on the actuators to position the masses as shown before rotation begins or continues.

At time t 1 the masses have each been rotated about 45 degrees in opposite directions. The resultant force has a magnitude of about 1.4 F in a direction of 0 degrees. Each force F has components along the 0 degree direction and a 90 degree direction and the resultant force is the addition of the 0 degree components of each force F. The components along the 90 degree directions cancel each other since they are in opposite directions about the zero axis.

At time t 2 the masses have each rotated 90 degrees. The resultant force has a magnitude of 0 since the forces F from each mass are in opposite directions and cancel each other.

At time t 3 the masses have each rotated 135 degrees. The resultant force here has a magnitude of 1.4 F in the 180 degree direction the down direction in the figures . This is similar to time step t 1 except the resultant force is in the opposite direction.

At time t 4 the masses have each rotated 180 degrees and are both positioned at the 180 degree position. Thus their forces sum fully and the resultant force has a magnitude of 2 F in the 180 degree direction the opposite direction of the force at time t 0.

At time t 5 the masses have each rotated 225 degrees. The resultant force has a magnitude of 1.4 F in the 180 degree direction. This result is similar to time t 1 where the 180 degree components of the forces F add while the 90 degree components cancel each other.

At time t 6 the masses have each rotated 270 degrees. The resultant force is 0 since the forces F from each mass fully cancel each other.

At time t 7 the masses have each rotated 315 degrees. The resultant force is 1.4 F in the 0 degree direction since the 90 degree components cancel each other.

As can be seen from the figures of the resultant force for each position of the masses is either in the 0 degree direction or the 180 degree direction and is always along the same axis. This allows the microprocessor or other controller to rotate the masses and achieve a desired directional force along this axis where the force experienced by the user is an oscillation along both directions of this axis. To provide directional forces along a different directional axis a different phase difference between the masses should be used as detailed below.

The same magnitude and direction of forces as described above can be output in the configuration of as well. The representation of actuator and mass should at each time step be simply moved over the representation of actuator and mass so that the axes of rotation are colinear and the masses and are rotating in planes close together. Since the actuators are facing opposite directions in this configuration the masses should be both rotated in the same direction e.g. both clockwise or counterclockwise with respect to each actuator instead of in opposite directions to achieve the resultant forces shown. The masses are not rotating exactly in the same plane but are rotating in planes close enough parallel to each other so that the force vectors combine approximately as shown.

At time t 0 the mass is positioned at 90 degrees from the 0 degree position while the mass is positioned at the 0 degree position. This provides a resultant force having a 1.4 F magnitude in a direction of 45 degrees. This force results from the addition of the 0 degree force from mass and the 90 degree force from mass .

At time t 1 the masses have each rotated 45 degrees from their starting positions so that the mass is positioned at the 135 degree position while the mass is positioned at the 45 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 0 since the forces F from each mass are in opposite directions and cancel each other exactly.

At time t 2 the masses have each rotated 90 degrees so that the mass is positioned at the 180 degree position while the mass is positioned at the 90 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 1.4 F in a direction of 135 degrees which is similar to the result of t 0 but in the opposite direction.

At time t 3 the masses have each rotated 135 degrees so that both the masses and are positioned at the 135 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 2 F in a direction of 135 degrees the summation of the forces F from the masses.

At time t 4 the masses have each rotated 180 degrees so that mass is positioned at the 90 degree position while mass is positioned at the 180 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 1.4 F in the 135 degree direction similar to the resultant force at time t 2.

At time t 5 the masses have each rotated 225 degrees so that mass is positioned at the 45 degree position and mass is positioned at the 225 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 0 since the forces from each mass are in opposite directions and cancel each other.

At time t 6 the masses have each rotated 270 degrees so that mass is positioned at the 0 degree position and mass is positioned at the 270 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 1.4 F in the 315 degree direction. This force is similar to the resultant force at time t 0 the mass positions have simply reversed from that time.

At time t 7 the masses have each rotated 315 degrees so that both masses and are positioned at the 315 degree position. The resultant force has a magnitude of 2 F and is in the 315 degree 45 degree direction since both masses are positioned in that direction.

Other positions of the masses not shown in the diagrams above will also provide forces in the same directions at magnitudes between the magnitudes described above for the positions surrounding the position in question.

As seen from the above described figures the phase shift of 90 degrees between the masses allows oscillatory inertial forces to be output in the directions along the axis at the 45 degree 135 degree direction. This axis is offset 45 degrees from the axis of forces output when the phase difference is zero shown in .

The forces from the rotation of the masses and can also be output along other directional axes. In a similar fashion as shown by a force in the directions along the 90 degree axis can be output by providing a phase shift of 180 degrees between the masses. A force in either direction along the 45 degree 225 degree axis can be output by providing a phase shift of 270 degrees between the masses. This allows directional forces to be output in eight total directions four directional axes which is sufficient in most situations to realistically simulate forces occurring from events or interactions in the displayed graphical environment. Furthermore any arbitrary angle or direction of force in the plane of mass rotation can be output by providing an appropriate phase shift between masses. For example directions between the 45 degree increments shown can be achieved with phase shifts of 45 degrees 30 degrees etc.

The control of the rotating actuators can be implemented in different ways. For example if a local microprocessor is included on the interface device the local microprocessor can monitor and maintain the phase difference between rotating masses independently of the host computer to free the host to perform other tasks. Furthermore when using a local microprocessor the host need only send high level commands which the local microprocessor can parse interpret and implement as appropriate. For example the host microprocessor might send a high level command to output a vibration where the vibration has the following high level parameters frequency magnitude duration and direction. Since the motors are preferably driven in only one direction to provide the directional forces described herein a control signal to drive the actuators need only be a positive waveform that can be modulated with desired on times at the desired frequency to achieve the desired magnitude and frequency of vibration as disclosed in copending U.S. application Ser. No. 09 669 029 filed Sep. 25 2000. In a simpler embodiment the motors can be rotated at the commanded frequency and the magnitude command can be ignored so that each frequency will have a fixed associated magnitude. The duration parameter is easily implemented by the microprocessor to output the vibration for the specified time period. Envelope parameters such as attack and fade parameters can also be specified in some embodiments to adjust the vibration magnitude at desired times as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 959 613 incorporated herein by reference. Impulse wave shaping can also be employed as described in that same patent.

The direction parameter can be specified in the host command as a vector e.g. in degrees. The microprocessor can process that direction into a desired phase shift between masses that would provide the desired direction actually force oscillation along an axis oriented in that direction by direct computation look up table etc. Thus if a direction of 45 degrees is specified the local microprocessor can adjust the masses to have a phase shift of 90 degrees between them and then begin the rotation. In some embodiments providing only a discrete number of directions e.g. eight the local microprocessor can round a specified direction to the nearest direction able to be output by the device. In other control embodiments the host computer can determine the phase difference and control signals to drive the actuators and can output or stream the control signals directly to the actuators on the device over a communication bus such as Universal Serial Bus USB .

Some embodiments may also provide bidirectional control over each actuator. For example one direction of rotation can be used to output inertial forces as described above while the other direction of rotation can be used to position the masses to achieve a desired phase difference.

The directional inertial forces described above are oscillatory harmonic forces output along both directions of an axis. In other embodiments a force in a single direction on an axis can be output. This is accomplished by controlling the masses to move in pops or short bursts rather than in continuous motion. Thus to provide a directional pop at the 0 degree position the up position shown in the masses can be started at the 180 degree position and both quickly accelerated to the 0 degree position in unison creating an inertial force in the up direction. The masses however are then decelerated gradually on the way back down to the 180 degree position or are stopped or damped near the 0 degree position so that only the up force is felt. The pop can be repeated by accelerating the masses repeatedly in one direction and decelerating them in other directions.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferred embodiments it is contemplated that alterations permutations and equivalents thereof will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and study of the drawings. For example many different types of interface devices can be used with the features of the present invention including gamepads remote controls joystick handles mice steering wheels grips knobs or other manipulandums or devices. Furthermore certain terminology has been used for the purposes of descriptive clarity and not to limit the present invention. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include alterations permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention.

