---

title: Method and system for automated planning using geographical data
abstract: A portable device for collecting data at a geographic location and providing accurate, comprehensive, efficient and timely work prints. The portable device for collecting data at a geographic location, the device including a memory that stores preliminary site information associated with the geographic location; a receiver that receives geographic position data of at least one point at the geographic location; an interface that enables a user to input data corresponding to the received geographic position data; and a processor that supplements the preliminary site information with the received geographic position data and the corresponding input data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07664530&OS=07664530&RS=07664530
owner: AT&I Intellectual Property I, L.P
number: 07664530
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060609
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of engineering. More particularly the present disclosure relates to gathering managing and outputting site specific planning or other such location specific information correlating to geographical data.

Currently project management entities survey worksites and other geographically specific locations in order to develop work prints by sending field engineers to these work sites. A field engineer typically may carry for example a preliminary work print a notebook a cellular telephone a camera and the like. Once at the work site the engineer may use a measuring wheel to measure and record geographic information. The engineer takes separate notes on such observations as field hazards placement of items such as culverts and fence lines and required work such as boring tree trimming bonding and grounding to name a few.

The field engineer then returns to the office and manually records the various field notes on a work type print. The print is then given to a draftsman to create an actual work print. This process includes accessing and reviewing data on the availability and pricing of items to be included in the planned work. Then the completed work print is returned to the engineer for review and approval. If the work print is approved the print is forwarded to a construction engineer for implementation.

Presently the field engineer may use a Global Positioning System GPS unit at the work site to determine geographic information thus simplifying certain surveying steps but the field engineer still separately records associated site observations and or corresponding work requirements. Also the engineer must still transcribe field notes including the geographic information into a final work print or the like.

Accordingly there is a need to reduce the time and cost of generating work prints and similar site planning documentation while simultaneously increasing accuracy and comprehensiveness.

A portable smart data input device SDID which is connectable to a work management system WMS includes the capability to determine geographic position information in real time e.g. through a GPS receiver. This allows a user such as a field engineer surveying a potential work site to download initial data from the WMS such as draft work print data or other such site planning information as well as upload additional data to the WMS. Typically a work print is a two dimensional plat including geographically specific site information such as road boundaries building structures manholes fire hydrants and telephone poles.

The exemplary system of the present disclosure allows the user to visit a specific geographic location such as a proposed work site with the SDID. The SDID is able to download data in real time from the WMS or to retrieve previously stored data from a memory device. The SDID enables the user to input field notes corresponding to exact geographic locations provided by an integrated GPS receiver or other associated geographic positioning system. The field notes may be overlaid in real time onto a work print for example that has been downloaded from the WMS or previously stored in the memory of the SDID which may be internal or external to the SDID. For example the SDID enables the user to create station markers and to plot locations directly onto the work print. Alternatively the field notes may be stored and later overlaid onto the work print. The work print may have been generated on the SDID.

The SDID may automatically download information to the WMS when connected. The WMS then processes the downloaded information to generate a work order for example including information such as terminals closures poles cables etc. for the project as well as the geographic locations of each as determined on site. The WMS may use artificial intelligence such as for example fuzzy logic adaptive neural processing or rules based expert systems. The downloaded information will include input notes such as field hazards placement issues such as culvert locations boring tree trimming fence lines bonding and grounding and the like. Additionally the WMS and or the SDID provide access to standard nomenclature such as of construction materials.

The WMS forwards the work order and or work print to a construction manager or other entity for ultimate implementation. The construction manager may be a machine system which uses artificial intelligence such as for example fuzzy logic adaptive neural processing or rules based expert systems.

In an exemplary aspect of the disclosure a portable device is disclosed for collecting data at a geographic location comprising site information. The exemplary portable device comprises a receiver that receives geographic position data of at least one point at the location an interface that enables a user to input data corresponding to the at least one point a processor that automatically supplements the site information with the received geographic position data and the corresponding input data of the at least one point and a memory that may store the geographic position data and the corresponding input data of the at least one point and the supplemented site information.

The exemplary portable device may comprise a GPS receiver and the site information may comprise a work print indicating at least one action to be performed at the location. Alternatively and or additionally the site information may comprise a topographical plat or a warehouse plan including inventory information. The exemplary portable device may comprise at least one input output port configured to be coupled to at least one supplemental device which may be any one of or combination of a satellite signal receiver a radio frequency signal receiver a memory card a range finder a telephone and a camera. The exemplary device may also comprise a transceiver configured to communicate with a remote work station the supplemented site information being downloadable to the work station through the transceiver. The exemplary interface may comprise at least one function activation key configured to execute a predetermined function that provides at least one user selectable choice for the input data.

The exemplary portable device may also comprise a range finder and or a camera. The exemplary range finder may be configured to determine a distance to a remote object and the processor may be configured to determine a geographic position of the remote object based on the received geographic position data and the determined distance to the remote object. The exemplary camera may be configured to capture a still or moving image that may be displayed on a display of the interface and the memory may be configured to store the image in association with at least one of the geographic position data and the corresponding input data of the at least one point.

In an exemplary aspect of the disclosure a work management method is disclosed the method comprising connecting a first device to a second device the first device being portable receiving a preliminary plan for at least one planned location at a work site from the second device receiving actual geographical data associated with the at least one planned location at the work site inputting additional data associated with the received geographic data and supplementing the preliminary plan with the geographic data and the associated additional data. In the exemplary method the process of supplementing the preliminary plan may comprise overlaying the geographic data and the associated additional data on the preliminary plan. Further inputting the additional data may comprise retrieving predetermined data from at least one of the first device and the second device.

The exemplary method may further comprise sending the supplemented preliminary plan to the second device automatically finalizing the preliminary plan generating an order based on the finalized plan and forwarding the order to a project manager for implementation. The exemplary process of generating the order may comprise identifying at least one item to be placed at the at least one planned location based on the geographic data and determining an availability of the at least one item from a database.

In a further exemplary aspect of the disclosure a method for surveying a location is disclosed. The disclosed method comprises receiving at a first device position data from a geographic position determining system the position data corresponding to at least one geographic point at the location entering notes in the first device corresponding to the received position data storing the notes and the position data corresponding to the at least one geographic point in a first memory of the first device and generating a plan from the stored notes and position data. The process of generating the plan may comprise connecting the first device to a second device synchronizing the first device to the second device downloading the stored notes and position data to the second device associating the downloaded notes and position data with a preliminary plan and overlaying the associated notes and position data on the associated preliminary plan. Further the process of entering notes may comprise completing predetermined fields provided on a displayed preliminary plan and or selecting at least one element from a plurality of predetermined descriptive elements displayed at the first device.

In view of the above the present disclosure through one or more of its various aspects and or embodiments is presented to accomplish one or more objectives and advantages such as those noted below.

In view of the above the present disclosure through one or more of its various aspects and or embodiments is presented to accomplish one or more objectives and advantages such as those noted below.

In the following description of the illustrated embodiments references are made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.

Referring to a description is now provided of an illustrative embodiment of a general computer system on which the method and system for automated planning using geographical data can be implemented. The computer system can include a set of instructions that can be executed to cause the computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or computer based functions disclosed herein. The computer system may operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. using a network to other computer systems or peripheral devices.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system can also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device a wireless telephone a land line telephone a control system a camera a scanner a facsimile machine a printer a pager a personal trusted device a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. In a particular embodiment the computer system can be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

As illustrated in the computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system can include a main memory and a static memory that can communicate with each other via a bus . As shown the computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system can also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

In a particular embodiment as depicted in the disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

In an alternative embodiment dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments can broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that can be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Accordingly the present system encompasses software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein may be implemented by software programs executable by a computer system. Further in an exemplary non limited embodiment implementations can include distributed processing component object distributed processing and parallel processing. Alternatively virtual computer system processing can be constructed to implement one or more of the methods or functionality as described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network can communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium shall also include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

In a particular non limiting exemplary embodiment the computer readable medium can include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium can be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium can include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Using a general computer system as shown in a process for automated planning using geographical data may be provided. The system of can also operate as various elements within the system. For example a program implementing the disclosure may be loaded and executed on one or more computers.

The SDID may be a handheld computer device for example and include the structure illustrated in denoted as without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The SDID has a plurality of interface ports not shown for receiving supplemental devices. The exemplary user interface of the SDID will be described in greater detail below with reference to . The SDID includes the capability to determine geographical position information. For example the SDID may include an integral GPS receiver that receives radio signals from a constellation of GPS satellites which broadcast precise timing signals to accurately determine geographic position information including longitude latitude and altitude . In alternative embodiments the SDID may collect geographical position information from any space or terrestrial based positioning system without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Exemplary supplemental devices that are useable with the SDID and that form another aspect of the disclosure include a laser rangefinder module for optically determining distances to targets a satellite signal transceiver module for enabling communication between the SDID and a satellite or remote base stations via satellite uplink a memory card module for increasing memory capacity of the SDID or for enabling secure physical transfer of data a telephone transceiver to enable mobile or landline telephone communication between the SDID user and remote parties a radio frequency transceiver module for enabling two way radio frequency communication or remote control of peripheral devices such as surveying robotic machines a digital camera device module for enabling recording of still or moving picture images a bar code scanner module for enabling machine retrieval of data recorded on bar codes a simulator module that provides computer based tutorials for training the user of the SDID a gas sensing module a volt ohm amp inductance meter module for measuring voltage resistance current and or magnetic fields an infrared transceiver module an infrared sensor module a water moisture sensor module a temperature sensor module a gaming module for providing entertainment for the user a head mounted display module that would be connectable to a head mounted display and control which may include eye tracking technology or any combination of the above listed accessories.

The WMS in one embodiment may be any general purpose computer that is capable of supporting computer aided design and drafting CADD processing software for example or any smart technology that is capable of performing the requisite functions. The WMS may include the structure illustrated in for example without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The WMS may be a virtual computer that is essentially a network of remotely located computers processing in parallel to provide a user with the perception of a single standalone computer but offering much greater speed and memory capacity.

The WMS may include an expert system for example. The exemplary expert system uses an adaptive neural processing system to provide an adaptive self learning system. The expert system is capable of generating draft work prints including topographic survey plats where available actual work prints and or work order prints. However any other management system software may be used without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The WMS is connectable to a peripheral device PD which may be for example a printer. However the PD may include at least one other computer a database a local area network a wide area network a satellite signal transceiver a database a wireless transceiver a display including holographic projection micromirror device light emitting diode or the like facsimile machine camera device satellite transceiver or any of the supplemental devices described above that may be used with the SDID . The PD may also be connected to WMS through a network . Once connected to the network the PD is configured to communicate with any other compatible device or devices that are also in communication with the network . In the exemplary embodiment the PD is connectable to both the WMS and the network .

The WMS is also connectable to a database DB for retrieving and storing data. The WMS is connectable directly to DB or indirectly through a network as shown in . The network may include for example an Ethernet a private intranet the public Internet or a wireless local area network LAN or any combination thereof. DB may be located on site as a stand alone unit or as an integral part of the WMS or the DB may be located remotely. If located remotely the DB may be provided by a vendor. The skilled artisan would readily appreciate that any large data store with data management functions may be used for the DB without deviating from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The SDID WMS PD DB and network are connectable by any known medium. For example the four systems are connected using a high bandwidth low resistance cable. However the systems may be coupled using wireless linkage such as radio frequency infrared or laser optic or any combination thereof. The skilled artisan would readily appreciate that any communication medium that is capable of transmitting analog and or digital signals may be used to connect the SDID WMS PD DB and network without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

Referring to the WMS receives a job request at step S. The job request may be generated at the WMS or it may be generated at some other location and transmitted to the WMS . The job request includes for example a project site address and preliminary instructions. The preliminary instructions may include a description of the project site including the type of site e.g. building site the nature of work that should be performed on or with respect to the site and any other relevant instructions necessary to communicate the information to complete the work on the project site. The request may for example be generated by an user on the SDID and downloaded to the WMS . Alternatively the request may have been generated directly on the WMS or it may have been generated remotely and communicated to the WMS by email facsimile instant messaging commands or any other known communication technology.

Upon receiving the job request the WMS creates a project folder at step S. The project folder provides an easily retrievable location for accessing and managing necessary data and programs for accomplishing a given project. WMS may also generate links to other data and programs that will likely interface with the newly created folder. For example once the address is provided WMS may establish communication e.g. over the Internet with vendors to retrieve current inventory and pricing information that is typically needed for the project for which it has received instructions at step S.

At step S the WMS using the smart technology discussed above builds project data into the project folder. For example the WMS may use the address it received at step S to retrieve survey plats for the address location as well as survey plats for adjoining locations. WMS may retrieve the plats from the database DB which in this case may be a public records database managed by the County a vendor that is able to provide the necessary plats an historical internal database of previous projects or the like. WMS then retrieves any data associated with the address it finds and loads the information into a newly created project file. For example WMS may retrieve data it has located regarding pre installed telephone poles electrical power lines fences underground fiber optic lines distribution boxes hazardous conditions etc. At step S WMS loads all of the relevant data for the project into the project file.

At step S the WMS using the up to date data proceeds to process the information to generate a draft work print. The exemplary draft work print will include a topographical survey plat with locations and annotations overlaid onto the plat. The annotations may include descriptions and locations of various known site features such as the above mentioned telephone poles electrical power lines fences hazards etc. The survey plat may be a two dimensional plat with appropriate demarcations. However where topographical information is critical a three dimensional or greater plat may be used in order to convey a more accurate real world plat to the field engineer.

At step S the SDID is coupled to the WMS to upload the draft work print. This may be accomplished by implementing a dedicated SDID cradle not shown and locating it on premises with WMS . The dedicated cradle would provide an interface whereby the information on the SDID would be synchronized with corresponding information on the WMS in order to ensure that each system has the most up to date information. Any known synchronization methodology may be used including time stamp comparison version control or any other scheme that works within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Alternatively SDID may upload the information from the WMS from a remote location over a satellite link telephone line Internet connection radio frequency connection optical signal connection or any other transmission medium that can facilitate transmission of digital or analog information between two locations.

In alternative embodiments any or all of steps S through S may be performed on the SDID instead of the WMS without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Further these steps may have been performed on another WMS device and made available to the WMS and or the SDID in real time or through a data store.

Regardless of whether the draft work print has been generated in the WMS and downloaded on to the SDID or generated in the SDID itself once the draft work print is on the SDID the SDID is taken to a project site to carry out the necessary survey steps as illustrated in for example.

At step S the user may physically go to the project site and retrieve the draft work print on the SDID . Alternatively and especially if it is a highly hazardous project site the user may choose to send a robot to gather the necessary information. The robot may be a land water or air traversing machine which may be equipped with artificial intelligence and may be configured to receive instructions from the field engineer.

After selecting the geographic point at step S the user inputs specific notes on the SDID corresponding to the selected point. The SDID may be configured to include an auto check function that allows the user to obtain updates for selected geographic points. For example the desired location or intended purpose of P may have changed. The SDID may check for updates by performing a data check on data stored in the SDID . However the update check may be performed by sending a call signal to the WMS to check for status updates and if any are found to upload the updated information to SDID by any one of the communication medium described above.

At step S the SDID overlays the input geographic positions and location specific notes on to the draft work print so that the user may see the progress as he or she proceeds to survey the project site. At step the user is queried as to whether he or she wishes to select another geographic point enter additional notes or other information or finalize the draft work print. In the example of the user elects to proceed from P e.g. where the draft work print indicates a request for a New Pole to be installed to point P. At point P in the example shown in the process returns to step S. The user selects the point as a geographic point at step S and receives the corresponding location data and enters a note e.g. Pole to be Removed at step S. The SDID may display respective distances D D D and D for the distances from the roadway to pole P from pole P to pole P from pole P to pole P and from pole P to roadway respectively. Upon the next prompt for further geographic points i.e. step S the user elects to finalize and the subroutine of ends.

Referring back to once the draft work print has been finalized the SDID is again connected to the WMS either by hard wire or wireless and the finalized draft work print is downloaded to the WMS at step S. At step S the WMS generates a final work print and a work order based on the down loaded information. The final work print will be a final version of the draft work print including all site specific data collected by the user that has been approved by the field engineer or any other necessary party. The actual work print and the work order may be stored and a backup copy may be archived by the WMS into for example the database DB or in a local memory at step S.

The work order may be forwarded to an entity charged with physically completing the project. The work order may include for example a project identification a project location specific material necessary for the project specific tasks that must performed at the project an estimation of the time necessary to complete each of the tasks and or a cost associated with each of the tasks and the specific material to be used. The work order may also include detailed information such as cable type cable size cable length terminal type terminal count terminal size splice points closures poles and the like which are necessary to carry out a project to completion. The work order may also include a job budget based on pricing and inventory information job management time codes for specific tasks enumerated in the work order and any other information that affects the overall project budget. The WMS in generating the job budget will access the most up to date cost and inventory data for supplies from vendors as discussed above. The WMS will then compile and generate the work order with the most current information including a job budget. If it is determined that inventories are insufficient to support the needs of a specific work order the WMS can send requests for vendors to replenish stock to stock certain new items or any other similar request. In an embodiment the WMS automatically generates the information detailed in the work order by accessing various databases and calculating cost budgets and the like.

In an exemplary embodiment the work order is forwarded to a general contractor that has been delegated the responsibility of overseeing construction of the project in accordance with the work order and actual work print. In the exemplary embodiment the general contractor then dispatches a crew to the project site to complete the project in accordance with the work order and actual work print.

However the skilled artisan will appreciate that the present disclosure is not limited to surveying and documenting potential work sites and that the charged entity may be any entity assigned the task of completing the project in accordance with the work order and actual work print without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The disclosure may be equally used in any environment requiring determination of specific geographic locations and association of various notes readily associated with those locations including relationships with other specific geographic locations. For example the disclosed system and process may be used with respect to construction sites retail or wholesale stores real estate hydrographic survey sites offshore and land core drilling sites dredge sites law firms and the like. For example the disclosure may be used by law firms in order to inventory files that are spread across the law firm building s by libraries to inventory books and their respective locations by census poll takers to collect census data by freight and shipping entities to track specific container inventories and locations.

The disclosure may likewise be used in the retail and wholesale industries to manage inventory. In this aspect of the invention a store clerk may use the SDID to inventory stock that is located on premises in a store including its specific location and quantity and any notes that the clerk may decide to include with respect to the location and items. Instead of manually entering stock item identifying codes the SDID may be fitted with the scanning device module discussed above to enable the clerk to scan universal product code UPC labels printed on the items.

Next a detailed description of an exemplary embodiment of the SDID will be provided. Referring to the exemplary SDID includes a display an embedded digital compass not shown QUICK keys numeric keypad RANGE key CAMERA key FUNCTION keys F F MAIN MENU key BEGIN END TRACKING key directional keys and pivotal member . The exemplary SDID may be enclosed in ambient proof casing that is water proof drop resistant and temperature resistant. is an exemplary embodiment of the SDID but the skilled artisan will readily recognize that the disclosure is not limiting to the exemplary embodiment modifications and or replacements may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

The MAIN MENU key when activated triggers the SDID to display a main menu on display . The user is then able to select a wide variety of functions from displayed items including configuration and control of various supplemental devices. The user is also able to control most of the SDID processes by initiating the MAIN MENU and maneuvering through its contents using the directional keys and or the pivotal member .

The directional keys and pivotal member are provided to enable the user of the SDID to manipulate a cursor on the display through a graphic user interface GUI not shown . Keys and provide a user friendly interface enabling the user to mimic the functionality of a multidimensional computer mouse. The directional keys for example allow the user to manipulate a cursor on a draft work print displayed on the display to modify objects and their locations. The pivotal member allows for further manipulation of the same cursor or an additional cursor for multidimensional manipulation of displayed data on display . The pivotal member in an exemplary embodiment is a pivotal joystick that operates in 360 degrees with a push down to select feature. Of course any functionality enabling manipulation of a cursor on the display such as a touch pad may be included on the SDID without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

The user is able to record a continuous line of geographic points by depressing the button BEGIN END TRACKING once to start tracking and a second time to stop the tracking. This function key allows the SDID to record a line of geographical points that a user traverses while moving from an initial point when the key was depressed a first time to an ending point when the key was depressed a second time using GPS data. This function key is practical in enabling the user to record fence lines or power lines for example on a draft work print.

Selection of the CAMERA key will activate digital camera functionality not shown which may be integral to the SDID or connectable through one of the interface ports of the SDID . Upon activation of this key the display will display the optical field that may be captured by the digital camera. Control of the digital camera is facilitated through touch screen soft keys that are displayed to the user along the lower most region of the display not shown and or through pivotal member .

The RANGE key enables the user to select geographic points from a distance using an optical range finder i.e. when the SDID is equipped with a supplemental range finder module and the digital camera discussed above without having to physically stand at the point which is to be selected as a geographic point. For example activation of RANGE key activates the supplemental range finder module and the internal digital camera to display a field of view on to the display as well as obtain measured distances to an object selected on the display and display such distances. The object may be targeted by overlaying a cross hair or cursor on the displayed image field enabling the user to select an object using either of keys or . Thus the user is able to manipulate the cross hair or cursor to overlay a selected target object and to select it as a geographic point along with its positional information. The positional information is automatically determined using the known geographic position where the user is standing e.g. through receipt of GPS information and the range to the target object. This feature allows the user to obtain geographic points that may otherwise be practically unattainable. Alternatively the range finder may be used to target the object without use of the camera device.

Function keys F to F are programmable keys that are programmable through manipulation of the MAIN MENU key and or an ADD TASK key . The function keys F to F may thus be programmed to serve as extra QUICK keys in addition to QUICK keys or they may be programmed to serve as activation keys for supplemental devices that may be later coupled to the SDID . For example the key F may be programmed to activate a simulation module or a computer based training module which can be used to train new users on the use of the SDID unit and or surveying methodology.

Referring specifically to the QUICK keys depicted in when the user activates the TEXT key the QUICK default entry mode is overridden and the SDID proceeds to the data entry mode selection process shown in . Referring to activation of the TEXT key will open up a scroll menu on display offering the options of text entry numeric entry or quick entry at step S. Upon selecting one of the input modes at step S the SDID will proceed to the corresponding one of steps S S or S. When the text mode has been selected at step S the SDID will set the input mode to text at step S. This enables the user to use the letters depicted on the keypad to manually type words. For example to obtain letters on the same numeric key the user presses the key multiple times in quick succession until the desired letter is displayed. When instead the numeric mode has been selected at step S the SDID will enable numeric entry at step S. This enables the user to use the numbers depicted on the keypad . When the quick entry has been selected the SDID will enable quick entry at step S which may display additional predetermined or preprogrammed quick entry options for which no QUICK key presently exists. In an embodiment the TEXT mode enables a user e.g. to type in information using an attachable keypad or an integral iTAP feature.

For an exemplary quick entry menu a hierarchical listing of terms may appear in display as illustrated in . In this example the user may maneuver through different commonly used terms by using keys and or which he or she may want to include in the notes associated with a particular geographic position. The commonly used terms displayed in are hierarchically displayed in multi tiers. For example SIGN HYDRANT and MAILBOX are single tiered. Selection of any of these three terms for example will only insert the term into the draft work print at the corresponding geographic point.

Alternatively the descriptors CULVERT HAZARD and CAUTION are predefined as two tiered and FENCE and DRIVE are predefined as three tiered. Thus a selection of CULVERT will open up the options of AROUND or BORE for selection describing two common types of culverts that may be present on site. A selection of HAZARD will open up the options of ELECTRIC FENCE or MEAN DOG for selection. A selection of CAUTION will open up the options of GAS WATER SEWER COSTLY LANDSCAPE or VOLTAGE for selection.

A selection of FENCE on the other hand will open up the options of CORNER PERPENDICULAR OR PARALLEL with a further selection of PARALLEL for example opening up further options of BEGIN or END for selection. This then prompts the user to enter geographic position data corresponding to the beginning or the end of a fence line. A selection of DRIVE will open up the options of GRAVEL or PAVED likewise followed by a further selection option of BEGIN or END.

In alternative embodiments the quick entry may also include for example the iTap technology used by MOTOROLA for quick entry of commonly used characters and words. Further the quick entry may also include preprogrammed lines of text that the user would expect to enter on site allowing the user to avoid excessive text entry for predictable items.

Referring back to the QUICK keys depicted in activation of the STATION MARK key will set the Mode to STATION MARK at step S of . The causes the SDID to go through essentially the same steps as described above. In particular the SDID prompts the user to record the GPS location data associated with the selected location e.g. the location at which the user is presently standing or a remote location identified through use of the RANGE key as a GP point i.e. at step S. Then at step S the SDID prompts the user for data entry notes. In the exemplary embodiment quick entry mode discussed above is set by default. Thus the menu of for example is automatically displayed showing common terms in a hierarchical format on display . The user may then maneuver through the displayed menu e.g. using keys and or to select the desired notes. The SDID also displays new information at step S and overlays the information collected at steps S S and S onto the draft work print at step S. Upon completing data entry for the respective GP point the SDID will prompt the user at step S whether the survey project is complete.

Activation of the EXISTING PLANT key or PLACE NEW PLANT key will cause the SDID to go through the same steps as described above with respect to selection of the STATION MARKER key except that instead of displaying the quick entry menu illustrated in at the data entry step S in the SDID will display the quick entry menus shown in respectively at data entry step S.

Referring to activation of key will present the user with menu selection options TRACK and REPLACE on display which may refer to some element of the physical plant such as a power line or cable. Upon selecting TRACK for example the user will be presented with three further selection options i.e. AERIAL BURIED and UNDERGROUND the selection of which indicates the status or anticipated status of the element. The AERIAL option corresponds to anything that is aerial by nature including cables power lines branches etc. The BURIED option corresponds to anything that is buried in the ground and that is in direct contact with the environment e.g. soil moisture etc. . The UNDERGROUND option on the other hand corresponds to anything that is underground and protected from the environment.

Upon selecting one of the three further selection options the user will be given a predefined number of options for PLANT types for any one of the three further selection options. For example the user may be given an n number of plant options where n is a positive integer that represents the number of predetermined plant options such as cable cable size cable gauge etc.

The TRACK selection option automatically places the SDID  into a multi GP point record mode so that the SDID will track a geographical line that tracks and records the user s movement from initiation of the TRACK mode to its termination similar to the functionality described above with respect to the BEGIN END TRACKING key . It performs the tracking operation by regularly recording GPS positions at predetermined periods of time that are sufficient to generate an accurate representation of the item tracked e.g. a power line and its relationship to the project plat.

The REPLACE selection option automatically places the SDID into a replacement mode. In this mode once the user has selected REPLACE the user then may select whether the structure to be replaced is AERIAL BURIED or UNDERGROUND as discussed above. If the user chooses AERIAL for example then the user may select the PLANT ITEM that needs to be replaced e.g. a telephone pole . The SDID then automatically annotates the GP point with a notation that the telephone pole located at that GP point needs to be replaced.

Activation of the TRANSITION ENVIRONMENT key in will trigger recall and display of exemplary predetermined commonly used descriptors as illustrated in for example. Referring to activation of key will prompt the user to select for example one of six predefined transitions. In the depicted embodiment the user may select any one of the following transitions UNDERGROUND to BURIED UNDERGROUND to AERIAL BURIED to UNDERGROUND AERIAL to UNDERGROUND BURIED to AERIAL or AERIAL to BURIED. A selection of any one of the six options for example will cause the SDID to further display the options of generating a split i.e. GENERATE SPLIT or replacing a stub i.e. REPLACE STUB at the respective GP point. If the user selects the option REPLACE STUB the SDID presents the further options of selecting a manufactured stub i.e. MANUFACTURED or a cable stub i.e. CABLE . Selection of either MANUFACTURED or CABLE will cause the SDID to present a series of predetermined sizes SIZE to SIZE n where n is a positive integer. Upon selecting one of the SIZE options the user is presented with a predetermined number m of types m is a positive integer that represents the number of predetermined sizes where the size may be any real value TYPE to TYPE m. Finally upon selecting one of the TYPE options the SDID generates a split GENERATE SPLIT at the respective GP point and annotates the draft work print accordingly.

Selection of the ADD TASK key will display on the display a plurality of predefined additional functions that the user may wish to add to any of the above tasks associated with the above described functions. Common exemplary tasks that may be included are PLOWING TRENCH MECHANICAL TRENCH BY HAND TRENCH MISCELLANEOUS SPLICE PIT TRENCH EXPOSE LOWER CABLE BORING UNDER ROAD RESTORATION OF PROPERTY HAND HOLE MAN HOLE RODING OF DUCTS UNDERGROUND REMOVAL MISCELLANEOUS UNDERGROUND BUILDING STRUCTURE AERIAL PLACE REMOVAL AERIAL MISCELLANEOUS POLES POLES MISCELLANEOUS ANCHORS TRANSFER OF ARIAL PLANT TREE TRIM BURIED SERVICE WIRE WORK LINEMEN HOURLY CREW RATE EQUIPMENT and SPLICING TASKS to name a few.

Accordingly the user is able to receive specific geographic location data collected on site by a GPS receiver or the like and efficiently input contemporaneous notes and other associated data. The user may build a previously generated draft plan such as a preliminary work print and subsequently download the collected data and observations for automatic production of a final work order and or final work print. The exemplary SDID of depicts the various functions and capabilities to maximize efficiency for the user.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards protocols and languages represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

One or more embodiments of the disclosure may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any particular invention or inventive concept. Moreover although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description various features may be grouped together or described in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter may be directed to less than all of the features of any of the disclosed embodiments. Thus the following claims are incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as defining separately claimed subject matter.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

Although several exemplary embodiments have been described it is understood that the words that have been used are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Changes may be made within the purview of the appended claims as presently stated and as amended without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention in its aspects. Although the description refers to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed but rather extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims.

