---

title: End-to-end QoS interoperation apparatus and method in heterogeneous network environment
abstract: An end-to-end quality-of-service (QoS) interoperation apparatus and method in a heterogeneous network environment are provided. A Next Steps In Signaling (NSIS) Application Programming Interface (NAPI) block handles an NSIS API at the request of an upper layer. An NSIS entity handles an NSIS protocol stack at the request of the NAPI block. An Internet Protocol Bearer Service (IP BS) manager manages an IP BS. A translation block translates parameters of a 3GPP_CLASS object and a UMTS QoS class predefined in an NSIS message according to a predetermined mapping configuration. A memory stores a software application including a Universal Mobile Telecommunication System Bearer Service (UMTS BS) manager for managing a UMTS BS. A processor combined with the memory, controls the software application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07944833&OS=07944833&RS=07944833
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07944833
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060517
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of application Ser. No. 60 681 471 filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on May 17 2005 and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of application Serial No. 2006 43804 filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on May 16 2006 the entire disclosures of both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation method in a heterogeneous network environment. In particular the present invention relates to an end to end QoS interoperation method between a 3rd Party Partnership Project 3GPP network and a non 3GPP network in a heterogeneous network environment.

A configuration of the next generation communication network is expected to assume a form in which various types of wire wireless networks coexist centering around a core network. In the heterogeneous network environment where heterogeneous networks are connected to each other in order to effectively support multimedia service quality there is a need for consistent end to end QoS control architecture and signaling technology.

Of the conventional QoS related protocols IEFT Next Steps In Signaling NSIS has no QoS interoperation technique with a 3GPP network. International Telecommunication Union Telecom ITU T H.360 an architecture for End to End QoS Control and Signaling presents an end to end QoS architecture but fails to present a detailed QoS signaling procedure provided taking the detailed network into account. In addition 3GPP Technical Specification TS 23.107 and TS 23.207 present signaling limited to the 3GPP network and merely present a part of the signaling procedure for the use of Resource Reservation Protocol RSVP . That is because 3GPP TS 23.107 and TS 23.207 do not specify the use of the RSVP in an Internet Protocol IP based Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS network the RSVP is not initiated in a Gateway General Packet Radio Service GPRS Support Node GGSN and a User Equipment UE executes an RSVP message after performing a Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Activation procedure causing a reduction in the speed of resource reservation. In addition the RSVP as it does not have a configuration for delivering 3GPP QoS information does not support mobility has a low extendability problem and has difficulty in supporting QoS between heterogeneous networks.

The possible problems of the QoS signaling scheme in the current 3GPP network are as follows. First the QoS signaling scheme cannot transport 3GPP QoS information between the ends. Second PDP context signaling is limited only to one UMTS network. Third there is a need for an efficient IP level signaling protocol used in an All IP based UMTS network. Fourth there is no protocol for QoS support between a 3GPP network and a heterogeneous network.

Therefore the foregoing problems cause QoS resource reservation of the receiving side 3GPP network not to be performed in a required level make IP level resource reservation of the All IP base UMTS network difficult and make end to end QoS support difficult in the environment where a 3GPP network and a non 3GPP network coexist.

Accordingly there is a need for an improved end to end QOS interoperation apparatus and method for use in a heterogeneous network environment.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention address at least the above problems and or disadvantages and provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention to provide a QoS interoperation method between a 3GPP network and a non 3GPP network for receiving a corresponding service by delivering QoS requirements to a network so as to satisfy various QoS requirements of a multimedia application in a heterogeneous network environment.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an interoperation method between an Y.1541 QoS Model QOSM and a UMTS QOSM of ITU T in a heterogeneous network environment and an interoperation method between DiffServ QOSM and UMTS QOSM of IETF.

According to one exemplary aspect of the present invention there is provided an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation apparatus in a heterogeneous network environment. The apparatus comprises a Next Steps In Signaling NSIS Application Programming Interface NAPI block for handling an NSIS API at the request of an upper layer an NSIS entity for handling an NSIS protocol stack at the request of the NAPI block an Internet Protocol Bearer Service IP BS manager for managing an IP BS a translation block for translating parameters of a 3GPP CLASS object and a UMTS QoS class in an NSIS message according to a predetermined mapping configuration a memory for storing a software including a Universal Mobile Telecommunication System Bearer Service UMTS BS manager for managing a UMTS BS and a processor combined with the memory for controlling the software.

According to another exemplary aspect of the present invention there is provided an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation method initiated by a first user equipment UE performed between a first Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS network including the first UE and a first Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a second UMTS network including a second UE and a second GGSN via an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network. The method comprises upon receiving a QoS requirement from an upper application layer generating by the first UE a QUERY RESERVE message including a 3GPP CLASS object and transmitting the QUERY RESERVE message to the first GGSN transmitting by the first GGSN a QUERY RESERVE message including a 3GPP CLASS object to the second GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network transmitting by the second GGSN the QoS QUERY RESERVE message including the 3GPP CLASS object received from the first GGSN to the second UE performing by the second UE QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then performing a Packet Data Protocol PDP context activation process with the second GGSN generating by the second UE a QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including a 3GPP CLASS object and transmitting the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message to the second GGSN transmitting by the second GGSN the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including the 3GPP CLASS object to the first GGSN transmitting by the first GGSN the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including the 3GPP CLASS object received from the second GGSN to the first UE performing by the first UE QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then performing a PDP context activation process with the first GGSN thereby securing end to end QoS and performing end to end exchange of multimedia traffic through the secured resource.

According to further another exemplary aspect of the present invention there is provided an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation method initiated by a first Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN performed between a first Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS network including a first user equipment UE and a first GGSN and a second UMTS network including a second UE and a second GGSN via an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network. The method comprises performing by the first UE QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then performing a Packet Data Protocol PDP context activation process with the first GGSN performing by the first GGSN QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then generating a QUERY RESERVE message including a 3GPP CLASS object and transmitting the QUERY RESERVE message to the second GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network transmitting by the second GGSN the QoS QUERY RESERVE message including the 3GPP CLASS object received from the first GGSN to the second UE performing by the second UE QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then performing a PDP context activation process between the second GGSN and the first UE generating by the second UE a QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including a 3GPP CLASS object and transmitting the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE to the second GGSN performing by the second GGSN QoS mapping according to a mapping configuration and then transmitting the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including the 3GPP CLASS object to the first GGSN transmitting by the first GGSN the QoS RESERVE RESPONSE message including the 3GPP CLASS object received from the second GGSN to the first UE thereby securing resources and performing end to end exchange of multimedia traffic through the secured resource.

According to yet another exemplary aspect of the present invention there is provided an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation method of a user equipment UE in a heterogeneous network environment. The method comprises upon receiving a QoS request from an upper application determining whether a corresponding QoS Model QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM if the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM generating a 3GPP CLASS object and translating the 3GPP CLASS object into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration and if the corresponding QOSM is an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM generating a Y.1541Diffserv parameter and translating the Y.1541Diffserv parameter into parameters of the UMTS QoS class according to a predetermined mapping configuration transmitting the translated UMTS QoS class to a UMTS network receiving the UMTS QoS class from the LMTS network and determining a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM if the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM translating parameters of a UMTS QoS class into a 3GPP CLASS object according to a mapping configuration and generating a 3GPP CLASS object and if the corresponding QOSM is an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM translating parameters of a UMTS QoS class into an Y.1541Diffserv parameter according to a mapping configuration and generating an Y.1541Diffserv parameter and performing QoS handling by analyzing the generated parameter.

According to still another exemplary aspect of the present invention there is provided an end to end quality of service QoS interoperation method of a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN in a heterogeneous network environment. The method comprises upon receiving a Next Steps In Signaling NSIS message from an Internet Protocol IP network determining whether a corresponding QoS Model QOSM is a Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM if the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM translating a 3GPP CLASS object in the NSIS message into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration and if the corresponding QOSM is an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM translating an Y.1541Diffserv parameter into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration performing a Packet Data Protocol PDP context activation process and transmitting the translated UMTS QoS class to a UMTS network upon receiving a UMTS QoS class from the UMTS network performing a PDP context activation process determining whether a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM if the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM translating parameters of the UMTS QoS class into a 3GPP CLASS parameter according to a mapping configuration and generating a 3GPP CLASS object using the translated 3GPP CLASS parameter and if the corresponding QOSM is an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM translating parameters of the UMTS QoS class into a 3GPP CLASS parameter according to a mapping configuration and generating an Y.1541Diffserv parameter using the translated 3GPP CLASS parameter and transmitting the generated 3GPP CLASS object or Y.1541Diffserv parameter to the IP network.

Several exemplary embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the annexed drawings. In the drawings the same or similar elements are denoted by the same reference numerals even though they are depicted in different drawings. In the following description a detailed description of known functions and configurations incorporated herein has been omitted for clarity and conciseness.

First a UE according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention generates an NSIS signaling message to provide a mapping function between a UMTS QOSM and an Y.1541DiffServ QOSM. That is the UE generates a 3GPP CLASS object to transport QoS parameters. In addition the present invention uses UE initiated signaling and reserves the required resources by delivering sending side UMTS QoS information to a receiving side UMTS thereby consistently achieving QoS resource reservation the conventional RSVP does not transport QoS parameters of UMTS QOSM .

Second a GGSN according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention can perform QoS interoperation between a UMTS QOSM and an Y.1541DiffServ QOSM for interoperation with an Y.1541DiffServ based network. The DiffServ UMTS QoS interoperation achieves signaling by performing QoS mapping in the GGSN. The Y.1541 UMTS QoS interoperation also achieves signaling by performing QoS mapping in the GGSN. That is the GGSN according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention generates a 3GPP CLASS object to transport QoS parameters. In addition the exemplary embodiment of present invention can rapidly perform QoS resource reservation using GGSN initiated signaling conventionally because the GGSN cannot receive the 3GPP QoS parameters from the external network the GGSN has difficulty in initiating the signaling for correct QoS resource reservation .

Third an exemplary embodiment of present invention can effectively achieve QoS interoperation between a non 3GPP network and a 3GPP network by defining additional QOSM parameters for UMTS QOSM. That is the 3GPP QOSM can initiate PDP context signaling using QoS class parameters of the 3GPP network transported through the 3GPP CLASS object or select the optimal one of the preset PDP contexts.

Fourth an exemplary embodiment of present invention supports both a Receiver initiated scheme and a Sender Initiated scheme defined in NSIS. That is as to a difference from the operation procedure defined in 3GPP TS 23.207 the present invention initiates QoS signaling for QoS interoperation in each of the UE and the GGSN and supports not only a Receiver oriented scheme but also a Sender oriented scheme.

Fifth an exemplary embodiment of present invention can reserve resources using NSIS signaling for IP based delivery within a UMTS network in an All IP environment and achieve signaling by changing the UMTS QOSM into various types of QOSMs Diffserv QOSM or Y.1541 QOSM . In 3GPP TS there is no mention of the signaling for reserving resources in the IP based UMTS network and RSVP is mentioned during signaling with the external network.

Sixth in an exemplary embodiment of present invention when both of the UE and the GGSN are NSIS signaling nodes the UE derives QoS requirements of an application and maps the QoS requirements to QoS parameters in the 3GPP CLASS object. If the UE initiates PDP context signaling and transmits a PDP context signaling message instead of the NSIS message to the GGSN the GGSN generates a 3GPP CLASS object and immediately initiates NSIS signaling. If the UE transmits the NSIS message including the 3GPP CLASS object instead of the PDP context signaling message the GGSN receives the NSIS message and delivers the received NSIS message to the next signaling node. In this case the GGSN performs mapping such that QoS parameters appropriate for adjacent networks may be derived.

Seventh in the exemplary embodiment of the present invention if only the UE is an NSIS signaling node the UE derives QoS requirements of an application and maps the QoS requirements to QoS parameters in the 3GPP CLASS object. The UE delivers an NSIS message to a peer of the external network where the NSIS is installed thereby performing signaling up to the receiving side.

Eighth in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention if only the GGSN is an NSIS signaling node the UE initiates PDP context signaling and transmits a PDP context signaling message to the GGSN. Then the GGSN generates a 3GPP CLASS object and immediately initiates NSIS signaling.

With reference to the accompanying drawings a detailed description will now be made of the above stated exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

Referring to a UE or a GGSN includes an NSIS Application Programming Interface NAPI a NSIS entity an IP Bearer Service BS Manager a translation block and a UMTS Bearer Service BS Manager .

The NAPI is a block for handling NSIS API. The NSIS entity corresponds to an NSIS protocol stack. The IP BS Manager manages IP BS.

The translation block takes charge of a core role for end to end QoS interoperation in a heterogeneous network environment and translates parameters of an NSIS 3GPP CLASS Object and a UMTS QoS Class according to a mapping configuration. The UMTS BS Manager manages UMTS BS.

Referring to a QoS NSIS Signaling Layer Protocol QoS NSLP message includes Length Bytes Class Num C Type and 3GPP CLASS object . The 3GPP CLASS object repeats the format including Parameter ID Length and Parameter Values . With reference to a description will now be made of parameters defined in the 3GPP CLASS object.

Referring to a UMTS Traffic Class parameter is used for indicating one of 4 UMTS Traffic Classes and is expressed using 2 bits. A Maximum Bit Rate Mbr parameter can be used for indicating the maximum bit rate requested by the user and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE floating point. A Maximum Service Data Unit SDU Size MSS parameter indicates the maximum allowable SDU size and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE integer. The SDU Format Information SDI parameter includes information on the SDU codec information relative bit priority and the like. and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE integer.

Further an SDU Error Ratio parameter indicates an allowable SDU error rate and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE integer. A Transfer Delay parameter indicates a transfer delay in the network and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE floating point. A Traffic Handling Priority parameter can define a priority of transport traffic and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE integer. A Residual Bit Error Ratio BER parameter which is used for measuring expected errors is useful when the user defines a BER on a specific level and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE integer.

In addition a Delivery of Erroneous Packets DES parameter indicates whether to allow transport of an erroneous SDU and can be used for rapid transport by increasing the throughput or reducing retransmissions when error correction is possible at the receiving side. This parameter is set to 1 for Yes and 0 for No . A Guaranteed bit rate Gbr parameter can be used for guaranteeing the bit rate requested by the user. However this parameter should be supported based on the policy of the service provider and is expressed with a 32 bit IEEE floating point. A Delivery Order DO parameter is used for indicating the possible intention that the receiving side will sequentially receive information. This parameter is set to 1 for Yes and 0 for No . A Source Statistics Descriptor SSD parameter is used for analyzing a characteristic of the source and providing a service appropriate for the characteristic. For example this parameter inserts therein a characteristic of voice traffic used codec peak rate and the like to secure resources appropriate for the characteristic. A Signaling Indication SI parameter is used to give priority to the current transmission information when it is signaling information. This reduces a session setup delay contributing to fast transmission of signaling messages. This parameter is set to 1 for Yes and 0 for No .

Although shows both the Receiver oriented scenario responding to QUERY with RESERVE and the Sender oriented scenario responding to RESERVE with RESPONSE a description thereof will be made with focus on the Receiver oriented scenario. In addition in the exemplary embodiment of an UMTS network is connected via an IP network to which Y.1541Diffserv is applied hereinafter referred to as an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network a UE can recognize an NSIS and a GGSN cannot recognize the NSIS.

Referring to upon receipt of a QoS requirement from an upper application layer a UE generates a QoS QUERY message in the UMTS network and transmits the QoS QUERY message to a GGSN in step . This QoS QUERY message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. Then the GGSN delivers a QoS QUERY message to a GGSN via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object and QoS mapping is performed in a Router R of the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network.

The GGSN delivers the QoS QUERY message received in its own UMTS network to a UE in step . This QoS QUERY message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. Thereafter QoS mapping is performed in the UE. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process takes place between the UE and the GGSN in step . Thereafter the UE generates a QoS RESERVE message and delivers the QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN in step . This QoS RESERVE message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. The GGSN delivers a QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS RESERVE message includes a 3GPP CLASS object and QoS mapping is performed in a Router R of the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network.

The GGSN delivers the QoS RESERVE message received from the GGSN to the UE in step . This QoS RESERVE message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. Thereafter QoS mapping is performed in the UE. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process takes place between the UE and the GGSN in step securing end to end QoS. Thereafter multimedia traffics are exchanged between the ends through the secured resources in step .

Although shows both of the Receiver oriented scenario responding to QUERY with RESERVE and the Sender oriented scenario responding to RESERVE with RESPONSE a description thereof will be made with focus on the Receiver oriented scenario. In addition in the exemplary embodiment of a UMTS network is connected via an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network and both a UE and a GGSN can recognize an NSIS.

Referring to upon receipt of a QoS requirement from an upper application layer a UE generates a QoS QUERY message in the UMTS network and transmits the QoS QUERY message to a GGSN in step . This QoS QUERY message carries a 3GPP CLASS object and DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed in the GGSN. Then the GGSN delivers a QoS QUERY message to a GGSN via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers the QoS QUERY message received in its own UMTS network to a UE in step . This QoS QUERY message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. Thereafter QoS mapping is performed in the UE. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process takes place between the UE and the GGSN in step . Thereafter the UE generates a QoS RESERVE message and delivers the QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN in step . This QoS RESERVE message carries a 3GPP CLASS object and DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed in the GGSN. The GGSN delivers a QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS RESERVE message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers the QoS RESERVE message received from the GGSN to the UE in step . This QoS RESERVE message carries a 3GPP CLASS object. Thereafter QoS mapping is performed in the UE. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process takes place between the UE and the GGSN in step securing end to end QoS. Thereafter multimedia traffics are exchanged between the ends through the secured resources in step .

Although shows both of the Receiver oriented scenario responding to QUERY with RESERVE and the Sender oriented scenario responding to RESERVE with RESPONSE a description thereof will be made with focus on the Receiver oriented scenario. In addition in the exemplary embodiment of a UMTS network is connected via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network and both a UE and a GGSN can recognize an NSIS.

Referring to upon receipt of a QoS requirement from an upper application layer a UE performs QoS mapping and performs PDP context activation with a GGSN in step . The GGSN performs DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping and then delivers a QoS QUERY message to a GGSN via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers the QoS QUERY message received in its own UMTS network to a UE in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object. Thereafter QoS mapping is performed in the UE. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process is performed between the UE and the GGSN in step . Thereafter the UE generates a QoS RESERVE message and delivers the QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN in step . This QoS RESERVE message carries a 3GPP CLASS object and DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed in the GGSN. The GGSN delivers a QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS RESERVE message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers the QoS RESERVE message received from the GGSN to the UE securing end to end QoS in step . Thereafter multimedia traffics are exchanged between the ends through the secured resources in step .

Although shows both of the Receiver oriented scenario responding to QUERY with RESERVE and the Sender oriented scenario responding to RESERVE with RESPONSE a description thereof will be made with focus on the Receiver oriented scenario. In addition in the exemplary embodiment of a UMTS network is connected via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network and both a UE and a GGSN can recognize an NSIS.

Referring to upon receipt of a QoS requirement from an upper application layer a UE performs QoS mapping and performs PDP context activation with a GGSN in step . The GGSN performs DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping and then delivers a QoS QUERY message to a GGSN via a Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

Thereafter the GGSN performs QoS mapping. After the QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process is performed between the UE and the GGSN in step . Thereafter DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed in the GGSN. The GGSN delivers a QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS RESERVE message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers the QoS RESERVE message received from the GGSN to the UE securing end to end QoS in step . Thereafter multimedia traffics are exchanged between the ends through the secured resources in step .

Although shows both of the Receiver oriented scenario responding to QUERY with RESERVE and the Sender oriented scenario responding to RESERVE with RESPONSE a description thereof will be made with focus on the Receiver oriented scenario. In addition in the exemplary embodiment of a UMTS network is connected via an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network and both a UE and a GGSN can recognize an NSIS.

Referring to upon receipt of a QoS requirement from an upper application layer a UE performs QoS mapping and performs PDP context request with a GGSN in step . The GGSN performs DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping and then delivers a QoS QUERY message to a GGSN via an Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS QUERY message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

Thereafter the GGSN performs DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping. After the DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed a PDP context activation process is performed between the UE and the GGSN in step . Thereafter DiffServ or Y.1541 QoS mapping is performed in the GGSN. The GGSN delivers a QoS RESERVE message to the GGSN via the Y.1541Diffserv based IP network in step . This QoS RESERVE message includes a 3GPP CLASS object.

The GGSN delivers a PDP Context Accept message to the UE securing end to end QoS in step . Thereafter multimedia traffics are exchanged between the ends through the secured resources in step .

Referring to the UMTS QOSM includes Conversational Class Streaming Class Interactive Class and Background Class and the DiffServ QOSM includes Expedited Forwarding EF Class EF OR Assured Forwarding AF Class 4 Assured forwarding AF Classes 1 2 3 and Best effort BE forwarding .

The Conversational Class is mapped to the Expedited Forwarding EF Class the Streaming Class is mapped to the EF OR Assured Forwarding AF Class 4 the Interactive Class is mapped to the Assured forwarding AF Classes 1 2 3 and the Background Class is mapped to the Best effort BE forwarding .

Referring to the UMTS QOSM includes Conversational Class Streaming Class Interactive Class and Background Class and the Y.1541 QOSM includes Class 0 Class 1 Classes 2 3 and 4 and Class 5 . Herein Classes 0 to 5 of the Y.1541 QOSM follow the contents defined in ITU T Y.1541. The Y.1541 Classes 0 to 5 are featured by providing several network QoS classes such that they can transmit traffics having the broadly similar requirement.

The Conversational Class is mapped to the Class 0 the Streaming Class is mapped to the Class 1 the Interactive Class is mapped to the Classes 2 3 and 4 and the Background Class is mapped to the Class 5 .

Referring to the Y.1541 QOSM includes Y.1541 QoS class Packet data rate Maximum allowed packet size IP Packet information IPER IP Error Ratio IPRD IP Transfer Delay and Reservation Priority and the UMTS QOSM includes UMTS traffic class Maximum bit rate IP maximum SDU size SDU format information SDU error ratio Transfer delay and Traffic handling priority . Herein the parameters of the Y.1541 QOSM follow the contents defined in ITU T Y.1541.

The Y.1541 QoS Class is mapped to the UMTS traffic Class the Packet data rate is mapped to the IP Packet information the Maximum allowed packet size is mapped to the IP maximum SDU size and the IP Packet information is mapped to the SDU format information .

In addition the IPER IP Error Ratio is mapped to the SDU error ratio the IPRD IP Transfer Delay is mapped to the Transfer delay and the Reservation Priority is mapped to the Traffic handling priority .

Referring to if a UE receives a QoS request from an upper layer in step it determines in step whether a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM. If it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM the UE generates a 3GPP CLASS object in step and translates the 3GPP CLASS object into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration in step .

However if it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a Y.1541Diffserv QOSM the UE generates Y.1541Diffserv parameters in step and translates the Y.1541Diffserv parameters into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration in step . In step the LE transmits the translated UMTS QoS class to a UMTS network.

Referring to a UE receives a UMTS QoS class from a UMTS network in step and determines in step whether a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or a Y.1541Diffserv QOSM. If it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM the UE translates parameters of a UMTS QoS class into a 3GPP CLASS object according to a mapping configuration in step and generates a 3GPP CLASS object in step .

However if it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a Y.1541Diffserv QOSM the UE translates parameters of a UMTS QoS class into Y.1541Diffserv parameters in step according to a mapping configuration and generates Y.1541Diffserv parameters in step . In step the UE performs QoS handling by analyzing the parameters received in step or .

Referring to upon receipt of an NSIS message from an IP network in step a GGSN determines in step whether a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or a Y.1541Diffserv QOSM. If it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM the GGSN translates an NSIS message 3GPP CLASS object into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration in step .

If it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a Y.1541Diffserv QOSM the GGSN translates Y.1541Diffserv parameters into parameters of a UMTS QoS class according to a mapping configuration in step . The GGSN performs a PDP context activation process in step and transmits the translated UMTS QoS class to the UMTS network in step .

Referring to if a GGSN receives a UMTS QoS class from a UMTS network in step it performs a PDP context activation process in step . Thereafter the GGSN determines in step whether a corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM or an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM. If it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is a UMTS QOSM the GGSN translates parameters of a UMTS QoS class into 3GPP CLASS parameters according to a mapping configuration in step . The GGSN generates a 3GPP CLASS object using the translated 3GPP CLASS parameters in step .

However if it is determined that the corresponding QOSM is an Y.1541Diffserv QOSM the GGSN translates parameters of a UMTS QoS class into 3GPP CLASS parameters according to a mapping configuration in step . The GGSN generates Y.1541Diffserv parameters using the translated 3GPP CLASS parameters in step step the GGSN transmits the 3GPP CLASS object or Y.1541Diffserv parameters generated in step or to the IP network.

As can be understood from the foregoing description the present invention provides a QoS interoperation method between a 3GPP network and a non 3GPP network for receiving a corresponding service by delivering QoS requirements to a network so as to satisfy various QoS requirements of a multimedia application in a heterogeneous network environment.

In addition the present invention provides an interoperation method between an Y.1541 QOSM and a UMTS QOSM of ITU T in a heterogeneous network environment and an interoperation method between DiffServ QOSM and UMTS QOSM of IETF.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to a certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and the full scope of equivalents thereof.

