---

title: Configuring preferred user zone lists for private access points for wireless networking
abstract: Information is received identifying a geographic location of an access point in a radio access network. Access information is assigned and communicated to the access point, and the access information and the geographic location information is communicated to an access terminal. The access terminal identifies the access point as a preferred access point, including its geographic location. The access terminal receives information identifying its own geographic location, and when the access terminal is near the access point, the access point is used to access the network. The access point receives information identifying its geographic location and communicates the geographic location information to a configuration server. The access point receives access information from the configuration server and provides access terminals access to the network using the access information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078165&OS=08078165&RS=08078165
owner: Airvana, Corp.
number: 08078165
owner_city: Chelmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061215
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 824 877 filed on Sep. 7 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This description relates to configuring preferred user zone lists for private access points for wireless networking.

Cellular wireless communications systems are designed to serve many access terminals distributed in a large geographic area by dividing the area into cells as shown in . At or near the center of each cell a radio network access point also referred to as a base transceiver station BTS is located to serve access terminals e.g. cellular telephones laptops PDAs located in the cell. Each cell is often further divided into sectors by using multiple sectorized antennas. In each cell that cell s radio network access point may serve one or more sectors and may communicate with multiple access terminals in its cell.

The 1xEV DO protocol has been standardized by the Telecommunication Industry Association TIA as TIA EIA IS 856 CDMA2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification 3GPP2 C.S0024 0 Version 4.0 Oct. 25 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference. Revision A to this specification has been published as TIA EIA IS 856A CDMA2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface Specification 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 2.0 July 2005. Revision A is also incorporated herein by reference. Revision B to this specification has been published as TIA EIA IS 856 B 3GPP2 C.S0024 B version 1.0 May 2006 and is also incorporated herein by reference. Other wireless communication protocols may also be used.

When connecting to a radio network an access terminal selects an access point from a list of available radio network access points that are known to be within communication range. In conventional systems the access terminal obtains the list of available access points from neighbor list information. In general neighbor list information includes the set of radio channels e.g. radio access technology band classes frequencies and channel bandwidths and other necessary information such as timing offsets coding information details about the particular radio technology in that channel search window size etc. to assist the access terminal in locating radio network access points from which it can potentially receive radio services.

Neighbor list information is typically provided to the access terminal via 1 a preconfigured database programmed into the access terminal in a static or semi static infrequently updated state or 2 overhead signaling messages that are transmitted by some or all of the radio network access points located within the general vicinity of the access terminal. These mechanisms for providing neighbor list information to an access terminal are generally implemented on static radio access networks in which the locations of radio network access points are either permanently fixed or changed infrequently.

In general in one aspect on a portable access terminal a first access point is identified as a preferred access point a geographic location is associated with the first access point information identifying a geographic location of the access terminal is received and when the access terminal is near the first access point the first access point is used to access a radio access network.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. Identifying the access point as a preferred access point includes receiving an instruction to add the access point to a list of preferred access points. Associating the geographic location with the first access point includes receiving information identifying geographic location information of the first access point as part of the instruction to add the access point to the list of preferred access points. The instruction is received from an OTAPA server or an OTASP server. The information identifying the geographic location of the access terminal includes GPS coordinates of the access terminal. receiving the information identifying the geographic location of the access terminal coordinates includes receiving longitude and latitude coordinates from a GPS satellite or beacon. Receiving the information identifying the geographic location of the access terminal coordinates includes determining longitude and latitude coordinates from a second access point. Receiving the information identifying the geographic location of the access terminal coordinates includes receiving identifying information from a transmitting device and correlating the identifying information to a geographic location.

In general in one aspect on an access point information is received identifying a geographic location of the access point the geographic location information is communicated to a configuration server access information is received from the configuration server and access terminals are provided access to a radio access network using the access information.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. Access terminal authentication information is received from the configuration server. After moving to a new geographic location information identifying the new geographic location is received the new geographic location information is communicated to the configuration server new access information is received from the configuration server and access terminals are provided access to the radio access network using the new access information. The configuration server includes a plurality of servers.

In general in one aspect information is received identifying a geographic location of an access point in a radio access network access information is assigned and communicated to the access point and the access information and the geographic location information is communicated to an access terminal.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. Communicating the set of network parameters to the access point includes causing a configuration server to communicate the access information to the access terminal using a backhaul network. Communicating the access information and the geographic location information to an access terminal includes causing an OTAPA server or an OTASP server to communicate the access information and the geographic location information to the access terminal using the radio access network. Information is received identifying a new geographic location of the access point new access information is assigned and communicated to the access point and the new access information and the new geographic location information is communicated to the access terminal.

These and other aspects and features and various combinations of them may be expressed as methods apparatus systems means for performing functions program products and in other ways. A fast transfer to the appropriate access point helps conserve battery life in the access terminal.

Referring to a radio access network RAN uses an Ev DO protocol to transmit data packets between an access terminal e.g. access terminal and and a radio network access point e.g. access points . The access points are connected over a backhaul connection to radio network control packet data serving nodes RNC PDSN which may be one or more physical devices at different locations.

In some examples as shown in a radio network access point may be deployed in a user s home in the same manner as a WiFi access point. Such a radio network access point is referred to as a private access point. The private access point may use any available high speed internet connection such as DSL or cable modem as the backhaul with the RNC PDSN functionality implemented in the private access point . Such a private access point may be installed anywhere that it is advantageous to do so for example in an office a public space or a restaurant. When this description refers to a private access point being in a home that encompasses any such location. A private access point is different from a picocell access point in that it may be intended to only provide access for the user that installs it in his home or those he authorizes as opposed to a picocell which may serve a similar venue but provides access to any subscriber of the network. In some examples a private access point may be integrated into a cable modem or other network hardware such as a router or WiFi access point.

When an authorized access terminal is present inside the home or anywhere within range of the private access point it uses the private access point rather than a regular cellular radio network access point such as access point to place or receive voice calls and data connections even if it is otherwise within the cell for that access point . We sometimes refer to the standard access point as a macro access point or macro BTS to distinguish it from a private access point as it provides direct access to the wider RAN. A neighboring home may have its own private access point connected to its cable modem for use by its owner s access terminal . A private access point deployment is different than traditional radio network deployment because neighboring private access points are intended to operate independently in part because real time communications is difficult between neighboring private access points. The intended private access point deployment is also different than WiFi deployment in that it is intended to operate in licensed spectrum. Some details and examples are discussed in co pending application Ser. No. 11 640 415 titled Controlling Reverse Link Interference in Private Access Points for Wireless Networking filed Dec. 15 2006 and application Ser. No. 11 640 501 titled Provisioning Private Access Points for Wireless Networking filed Dec. 15 2006 which are incorporated here by reference.

Access lists of authorized access terminals for each private access point can be configured on a central server and distributed to the private access points. Information to locate and access the private access points can be distributed to access terminals using an over the air parameter administration OTAPA system. Access terminals may also retrieve access information from the configuration server themselves. A mobile internet protocol mobile IP can be used along with voice call continuity VCC for handoffs between private access points. Although this description uses terminology from EV DO standards the same concepts are applicable to other communication methods including GSM UMTS HSDPA WiMax WiBro WiFi and the like. For example when we refer to a reverse power control RPC signal this should be taken to refer to any signal used by a base station to control power levels of an access terminal.

An EV DO network using private access points is different than a traditional EV DO deployment because each private access point has its own access list i.e. a list of subscribers or their access terminals who are authorized to access service through it. We refer to a private access point on which a given access terminal is authorized as an authorized private access point. An access terminal may be described as provisioned to a given access point meaning that it is assigned to use that access point at least for the time being. Millions of private access points are contemplated to be deployed in a city. In order to ensure that access terminals attempt to access only on the access point for which they are authorized and that an access terminal s search for access points is efficient techniques for configuring preferred user zone linsts for private access points may be implemented.

In some examples an authorized private access point can be configured on the access terminal including adding deleting and reconfiguring authorized private access points. The access terminal can be configured to transfer from the macro access point to the private access point as soon as such a transfer is possible. Among other things a fast transfer helps conserve battery life in the access terminal.

In some examples a custom application on a handset type access terminal is used to manage a private access point list. The application may be implemented in BREW or any other suitable framework for running applications on mobile devices. Similarly an application written for a host PC s operating system can be used to configure an access terminal that is implemented as a peripheral for or integrated into a PC. The application can have an additional user interface for searching for private access points. In some examples this is accomplished though application programming interfaces APIs e.g. to trigger search exposed by handset makers to application vendors. In some examples an appropriate application is bundled with each access terminal that is expected to use a private access point. In some examples this approach identifies a private access point by a PNOffset RFFreq SectorId triplet which requires the handset to search for a pilot signal having the designated PNOffset and also to go through a location update procedure to uniquely identify the SectorId.

Once an access terminal has accessed a network it may use a preferred user zone list PUZL to locate and use preferred access points. The PUZL provides priority and characteristics of the access points available to the access terminal and can be configured as defined in Over the Air Service Provisioning of Mobile Stations in Spread Spectrum Systems published as TIA 683 C March 2003 which is incorporated here by reference including by over the air parameter administration OTAPA or over the air service provisioning OTASP . In a typical arrangement when an access terminal establishes a connection to an access point in the macro network the access point provides the access terminal with a neighbor list that is a listing of other access points operating in the same or neighboring areas. The access terminal compares this list to the list of access points in its PUZL and if it finds any matches it begins searching for the identified access points.

Under the specifications noted above configuration of preferred user zones on an access terminal may be based on PN Offset RF frequency pairs that identify access points. The existing PUZL configuration mechanism can be extended to private access point deployment by configuring a certain private access point as being part of a preferred user zone of an access terminal. This will cause the access terminal to use that private access point when it is available.

The existing PUZL configuration mechanism can be enhanced to address private access point requirements. In addition to their PN Offset RF Frequency pairs access points can also be uniquely identified with their geographic location i.e. their latitude and longitude. location information is included in the PUZL for uses other than those provided in this description. This means that a geographic specific field can be attached to PUZL entries to allow access terminals to determine which access point to communicate with based on the their own physical locations. The geographic specific field information is used to enable Rev A handsets to search for and to use their preferred private access points based on their location. Preferred user zone search can be location based to save the handset s battery and enable quick switchover between a macro access point and a private access point. Instead of or in addition to comparing the neighbor list received from a macro access point to its PUZL an access terminal can compare its current longitude and latitude coordinates to the coordinates of the private access points in its PUZL. If it finds that it is within a certain radius of one it can then search for the pilot signal that private access point knowing that it is nearby. This offers some advantages over typical setups where multiple private access points may share PN Offset RF Frequency pairs in which case an access terminal may not be certain that a private access point found in the neighbor list of the macro access point is really the one on its PUZL and may waste energy looking for it. It also relieves the macro access point of needing to be configured with the identifications of all the private access points in the area it covers a potentially large and variable number.

Access terminals can determine their geographic location in several ways. In some examples access terminals are equipped to receive signals from global positioning system GPS satellites or beacons and determine their location directly. In some examples macro base stations transmit information describing their own locations and access terminals may make assumptions based on one or more macro base stations transmissions. Because each macro base station has a finite range an assumption that an access station has a similar location is generally valid. In some examples access terminals are equipped with WiFi receivers and they can use a database that maps WiFi network information such as the SSID of a network or the IP address of a WiFi access point to geographic locations. An access point may use the locations of one or more WiFi networks to triangulate its own location.

The message flow illustrated in explains the interaction between various network elements and an access terminal . As shown the system can be implemented in several parts. The access terminal will access the network not shown through a private access point . The access terminal determines its location using geographic coordinates derived from a source of such information as described above. An OTAPA server manages the configuration of the access terminal . A configuration server is in communication with the OTAPA server and provides configuration information to the private access point .

When the private access point powers up it determines its geographic location and a SectorID from a nearby macro access point and reports these to the configuration server . The configuration server assigns the private access point a PN Offset and RF Frequency to use and communicates this and the geographic location and sector ID of the private access point to the OTAPA server. The private access point then comes online using the assigned values. At some point the access terminal is added as an authorized user on the private access point and the relevant authentication information is communicated to the private access point . Provisioning of authorized access terminals can be done in several ways one of which is discussed in the co pending service provisioning application mentioned above. After the configuration server reports the private access point s current location and configuration information to the OTAPA server the OTAPA server sends this information to the access terminal as an updated entry to its PUZL. Instead of an OTAPA server the access terminal could get the information from an OTASP server.

As the access terminal moves about it continually updates its geographic location information based on signals received from the geographic information source and compares its location to the locations of private access points in its PUZL. When its geographic location indicates that it is near a private access point that is on the list e.g. private access point the access terminal begins searching for that private access point using the PN Offset and RF Frequency pair for that private access point. When it finds it it initiates an access procedure to log on to the network through that private access point.

In some examples the access terminal uses this system as shown in . shows how the access terminal may acquire a pilot signal. In a first state the access terminal is inactive. Upon activating the access terminal enters a network determination state . If the activation was triggered because the access terminal detected a strong pilot signal from a private access point or an access point in its PUZL and the access terminal is close enough the access terminal uses the PUZL channel record upon entering the network determination state . Whether the access terminal is close enough is determined based on the access terminal s location which it determines as described above and on the private access point s location recorded in the PUZL also described above. The PUZL also includes a radius which is compared to the difference in the locations to determine whether the access terminal is within the radius and therefore close enough to use that private access point. From the network determination state a network is selected and the access terminal enters a pilot acquisition state . The access terminal finds its own location and finds a subset of access points in its PUZL which are within a pre determined proximity to the access terminal. Assuming the subset is not empty the access terminal will periodically search for pilot signals from the access points in the subset.

The access terminal will also search for a pilot signal from an access point from the PUZL if the access terminal is in its power up routine and the channel record matches a PUZL entry. If the acquisition was triggered by an access point in the PUZL the access terminal will only acquire a signal from such an access point rather than a stronger pilot signal form another access point not in the PUZL. If a timer expires before the access terminal acquires a pilot signal it returns to the network determination state . Once a pilot signal is acquired the access terminal enters the Synchronization state where it synchronizes itself to the private access point s pilot signal. On the basis of another timer or a an incompatibility between the private access point and the access terminal sometimes referred to as an out of revision OOR event the access terminal will return to the network determination state . If it receives a Sync Message OK signal the access terminal will return to the inactive state .

Advantages include the following. Configuration of authorized private access points on handsets without end user intervention is enabled though both push OTAPA and pull OTASP processes. Fast switchover from a macro access point to a private access point without user intervention is possible. A private access point can be searched for efficiently preserving handset battery life. Unnecessary switchover from a macro access point to a private access point is avoided as access terminals do not need to perform Location Update or SectorID decoding to identify their own private access point. No modifications are required to the software and configuration of the macro network. Handset chipset makers are not required to expose internal APIs to application vendors because the existing PUZL system accommodates the geographic location information. New applications are not required to be bundled with handsets. Dynamic addition and removal of subscribers to and from a list of private access points is enabled as the private access points report their location when powered up. Private access points can be moved around without intervention by users of access terminals.

Although the techniques described above employ the 1xEV DO air interface standard the techniques are also applicable to other CDMA and non CDMA air interface technologies in which an access terminal communicates with a server over a wireless network.

The techniques described herein can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The techniques can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps of the techniques described herein can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus of the invention can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the techniques described herein can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element for example by clicking a button on such a pointing device . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The techniques described herein can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface and or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the invention or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact over a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. The techniques described herein can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

