---

title: Genes of W83 involved in invasion of human cells
abstract: Compositions and methods are provided for detection and treatment of infection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07838259&OS=07838259&RS=07838259
owner: University of Florida Research Foundation
number: 07838259
owner_city: Gainesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060201
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Appl. Ser. No. 60 648 765 filed Feb. 1 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Number DE13545 awarded by the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Cardiovascular disease CVD is the leading cause of death in the United States however the classic risk factors do not explain all of its clinical and epidemiological features Leaverton et al. 40 775 784 1987 . An increasing body of evidence suggests that bacterial infections also play a role. Low grade infections have been associated with CVD and studies indicate that chronic infections including those of the oral cavity increase the risk of CVD. Haverkate et al. 349 462 466 1997 Mattila et al. 26 719 734 1998 Beck et al. 67 1123 1137 1996 . It has been proposed that some risk factors are shared by periodontal disease and heart disease indicating a possible common etiologic pathway.

In a recent report Haraszthy et al. 71 1554 1560 2000 suggested that certain species of periodontal pathogenic bacteria may be involved in CVD. Additionally and were detected within atheromatous plaques. Pg is one of the major pathogens associated with adult periodontitis Socransky et al. 63 322 331 1992 and due to transient bacteremias have a route to the circulatory system in periodontitis patients Sconyers et al. 87 616 622 1973 Silver et al. 4 92 99 1977 . Some studies have demonstrated that Pg internalizes within gingival epithelial cells in vitro and in vivo as well as within coronary endothelial cells in vitro Lamont et al. 7 364 367 1992 Sandros et al. 28 19 226 1993 Rudney et al. 69 2700 2707 2001 Deshpande et al. 66 5337 5343 1998 Dorn et al. 67 5792 5798 1999 . Thus the inflammatory response of atherosclerosis may be a result of invasion by Pg within endothelial cells. Identification of polynucleotides and polypeptides in the invasive mechanism of Pg is needed. Mutational analyses are currently in progress to understand the role of genes in invasion ability of Pg. The knowledge of the role of these genes may offer insight into disease mechanisms and the interactions between bacteria and host. Thus potential therapeutic interventions may be developed.

One embodiment of the invention provides an antigenic composition comprising at least one purified recombinant polypeptide that specifically binds to an antibody or fragment thereof wherein the antibody or fragment thereof specifically binds to a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 37 or a combination thereof and an adjuvant.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for determining the presence or absence of an antibody or fragment thereof in a test sample where in the antibody or fragment thereof specifically binds to a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. The method comprises contacting the test sample with a purified polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37 under conditions suitable for specific binding of the purified polypeptide to the antibody or fragment thereof and detecting the presence or absence of specific binding. The presence of specific binding indicates the presence of the antibody or fragment thereof and the absence of specific binding indicates the absence the antibody or fragment thereof. The method can further comprise detecting the amount of specific binding. The test sample can be a serum blood saliva or plaque sample. The purified polypeptide can be immobilized to a solid support. The purified polypeptide can be labeled. The detection can be by radioimmunoassay enzyme linked immunosorbent assay immunohistochemical or immumoenzyme assay.

Even another embodiment of the invention provides a method for determining the presence or absence of a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37 in a test sample. The method comprises contacting the test sample with an antibody or fragment thereof that specifically binds a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37 under conditions suitable for specific binding of the polypeptide to the antibody or fragment thereof and detecting the presence or absence of specific binding. The presence of specific binding indicates the presence of the polypeptide and the absence of specific binding indicates the absence of the polypeptide. The method can further comprise detecting the amount of specific binding. The test sample can be serum blood saliva or plaque. The antibody or fragment thereof can be immobilized to a solid support and can be labeled. The detection can be by radioimmunoassay enzyme linked immunosorbent assay or enzyme assay.

Yet another embodiment of the invention provides an isolated recombinant organism wherein the recombinant organism is genetically engineered to remove one or more of the polynucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37.

Still another embodiment of the invention provides an antibody or fragment thereof that specifically binds a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. The antibody can be a single chain antibody a monoclonal antibody or a polyclonal antibody.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method for detecting the presence or absence of an invasive infection in an animal comprising contacting a test sample from the animal with a purified polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 31 33 35 or 37 under conditions suitable for specific binding of the purified polypeptide to an antibody or fragment thereof in the test sample and detecting the presence or absence of specific binding. The presence of specific binding of the purified polypeptide and the antibody or fragment thereof indicates the presence of invasive and the absence of specific binding indicates the absence of invasive . The method can further comprise detecting the amount of specific binding. The test sample is can be serum blood saliva or plaque. The polypeptide can be immobilized to a solid support and can be labeled. The detection can be by radioimmunoassay enzyme linked immunosorbent assay or enzyme assay.

Even another embodiment of the invention provides a method for detecting an invasive polypeptide comprising contacting a test sample with an antibody or fragment thereof that specifically binds a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 31 33 35 or 37 under conditions suitable for specific binding of the antibody or fragment thereof to the invasive polypeptide and detecting the presence or absence of specific binding. The presence of specific binding indicates the presence of the invasive polypeptide and the absence of specific binding indicates that the absence of the invasive polypeptide. The method can further comprise detecting the amount of specific binding. The test sample can be serum blood saliva or plaque. The antibody or fragment thereof can be immobilized to a solid support and can be labeled. The detection can be by radioimmunoassay enzyme linked immunosorbent assay or enzyme assay.

A polypeptide is a polymer of three or more amino acids covalently linked by amide bonds. A polypeptide can be post translationally modified. A purified polypeptide is a polypeptide preparation that is substantially free of cellular material other types of polypeptides chemical precursors chemicals used in synthesis of the polypeptide or combinations thereof. A polypeptide preparation that is substantially free of cellular material culture medium chemical precursors chemicals used in synthesis of the polypeptide has less than about 30 20 10 or 5 of other polypeptides culture medium chemical precursors and other chemicals used in synthesis. Therefore a purified polypeptide is about 70 80 90 95 99 or more pure.

Purified polypeptides of the invention can either be full length polypeptides or fragments of polypeptides. For example fragments of polypeptides of the invention can comprise about 5 10 25 50 100 200 300 400 500 or more amino acids of polypeptides of the invention. Examples of polypeptides of the invention include those shown in SEQ ID NO 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 and 37. Variant polypeptides are at least about 90 96 98 or 99 identical to the polypeptide sequences shown in the polypeptide SEQ IDs are also polypeptides of the invention. Variant polypeptides have one or more conservative amino acid variations or other minor modifications and retain biological activity i.e. are biologically functional equivalents. A biologically active equivalent has substantially equivalent function when compared to the corresponding wild type polypeptide.

Percent sequence identity has an art recognized meaning and there are a number of methods to measure identity between two polypeptide or polynucleotide sequences. See e.g. Lesk Ed. Oxford University Press New York 1988 Smith Ed. Academic Press New York 1993 Griffin Griffin Eds. Humana Press New Jersey 1994 von Heinje Academic Press 1987 and Gribskov Devereux Eds. M Stockton Press New York 1991 . Methods for aligning polynucleotides or polypeptides are codified in computer programs including the GCG program package Devereux et al. 12 387 1984 BLASTP BLASTN FASTA Atschul et al. 215 403 1990 and Bestfit program Wisconsin Sequence Analysis Package Version 8 for Unix Genetics Computer Group University Research Park 575 Science Drive Madison Wis. 53711 which uses the local homology algorithm of Smith and Waterman 2 482 489 1981 . For example the computer program ALIGN which employs the FASTA algorithm can be used with an affine gap search with a gap open penalty of 12 and a gap extension penalty of 2.

When using any of the sequence alignment programs to determine whether a particular sequence is for instance about 95 identical to a reference sequence the parameters are set such that the percentage of identity is calculated over the full length of the reference polynucleotide and that gaps in identity of up to 5 of the total number of nucleotides in the reference polynucleotide are allowed.

Variants can generally be identified by modifying one of the polypeptide sequences of the invention and evaluating the properties of the modified polypeptide to determine if it is a biological equivalent. A variant is a biological equivalent if it reacts substantially the same as a polypeptide of the invention in an assay such as an immunohistochemical assay an enzyme linked immunosorbent Assay ELISA a radioimmunoassay RIA immunoenzyme assay or a western blot assay e.g. has 90 110 of the activity of the original polypeptide. In one embodiment the assay is a competition assay wherein the biologically equivalent polypeptide is capable of reducing binding of the polypeptide of the invention to a corresponding reactive antigen or antibody by about 80 95 99 or 100 . An antibody that specifically binds a corresponding wild type polypeptide also specifically binds the variant polypeptide. Variant polypeptides of the invention can comprise about 1 5 10 25 or 50 conservative amino acid substitutions.

A conservative substitution is one in which an amino acid is substituted for another amino acid that has similar properties such that one skilled in the art of peptide chemistry would expect the secondary structure and hydropathic nature of the polypeptide to be substantially unchanged. In general the following groups of amino acids represent conservative changes 1 ala pro gly glu asp gln asn ser thr 2 cys ser tyr thr 3 val ile leu met ala phe 4 lys arg his and 5 phe tyr trp his.

A polypeptide of the invention can further comprise a signal or leader sequence that co translationally or post translationally directs transfer of the protein. The polypeptide can also comprise to a linker or other sequence for ease of synthesis purification or identification of the polypeptide e.g. poly His or to enhance binding of the polypeptide to a solid support. For example a polypeptide can be conjugated to an immunoglobulin Fc region.

A polypeptide can be covalently or non covalently linked to an amino acid sequence to which the polypeptide is not normally associated with in nature. Additionally a polypeptide can be covalently or non covalently linked to compounds or molecules other than amino acids. For example a polypeptide can be linked to an indicator reagent an amino acid spacer an amino acid linker a signal sequence a stop transfer sequence a transmembrane domain a protein purification ligand or a combination thereof. An amino acid spacer is a sequence of amino acids that are not usually associated with a polypeptide of the invention in nature. An amino acid spacer can comprise about 1 5 10 20 100 or 1 000 amino acids.

If desired a polypeptide can be a fusion protein which can also contain other amino acid sequences such as amino acid linkers amino acid spacers signal sequences TMR stop transfer sequences transmembrane domains as well as ligands useful in protein purification such as glutathione S transferase histidine tag and staphylococcal protein A or combinations thereof. More than one polypeptide of the invention can be present in a fusion protein. Fragments of polypeptides of the invention can be present in a fusion protein of the invention. A fusion protein of the invention can comprise one or more of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 29 31 33 35 37 or fragments thereof or combinations thereof.

Polypeptides of the invention can be in a multimeric form. That is a polypeptide can comprise one or more copies of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 29 31 33 35 37 or a combination thereof. A multimeric polypeptide can be a multiple antigen peptide MAP . See e.g. Tam J. Immunol. Methods 196 17 32 1996 .

The basic and novel characteristics of a polypeptide of the invention is that it specifically binds an antibody wherein the antibody is specific for a Pg antigenic determinant and the polypeptide is necessary to retain wild type levels of Pg adherence and invasive activity in a Pg organism.

Polypeptides of the invention can comprise an antigen that is recognized by an antibody reactive against Pg. The antigen can comprise one or more epitopes or antigenic determinants . An epitope can be a linear epitope sequential epitope or a conformational epitope. Epitopes within a polypeptide of the invention can be identified by several methods. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 554 101 Jameson Wolf 4 181 186 1988 . For example a polypeptide of the invention can be isolated and screened. A series of short peptides which together span an entire polypeptide sequence can be prepared by proteolytic cleavage. By starting with for example 100 mer polypeptide fragments each fragment can be tested for the presence of epitopes recognized in an ELISA. For example in an ELISA assay a Pg polypeptide such as a 100 mer polypeptide fragment is attached to a solid support such as the wells of a plastic multi well plate. A population of antibodies are labeled added to the solid support and allowed to bind to the unlabeled antigen under conditions where non specific absorption is blocked and any unbound antibody and other proteins are washed away. Antibody binding is detected by for example a reaction that converts a colorless substrate into a colored reaction product. Progressively smaller and overlapping fragments can then be tested from an identified 100 mer to map the epitope of interest.

A polypeptide of the invention can be produced recombinantly. A polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide of the invention can be introduced into a recombinant expression vector which can be expressed in a suitable expression host cell system using techniques well known in the art. A variety of bacterial yeast plant mammalian and insect expression systems are available in the art and any such expression system can be used. Optionally a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide can be translated in a cell free translation system. A polypeptide can also be chemically synthesized or obtained from Pg cells.

An immunogenic polypeptide of the invention can comprise the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. An immunogenic polypeptide can elicit antibodies or other immune responses e.g. T cell responses of the immune system that recognize epitopes of polypeptides having SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. An immunogenic polypeptide of the invention can also be a fragment of a polypeptide that has an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. An immunogenic polypeptide of the invention can be about 10 20 30 40 50 or more amino acids in length.

Polynucleotides of the invention contain less than an entire microbial genome and can be single or double stranded nucleic acids. A polynucleotide can be RNA DNA cDNA genomic DNA chemically synthesized RNA or DNA or combinations thereof. The polynucleotides can be purified free of other components such as proteins lipids and other polynucleotides. For example the polynucleotide can be 50 75 90 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 purified. The polynucleotides of the invention encode the polypeptides described above. In one embodiment of the invention the polynucleotides encode polypeptides shown in SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 37 or combinations thereof. In one example the polynucleotides comprise SEQ ID NOs 1 3 5 7 9 30 32 34 and 36. Polynucleotides of the invention can comprise other nucleotide sequences such as sequences coding for linkers signal sequences TMR stop transfer sequences transmembrane domains or ligands useful in protein purification such as glutathione S transferase histidine tag and staphylococcal protein A.

Polynucleotides of the invention can be isolated. An isolated polynucleotide is a naturally occurring polynucleotide that is not immediately contiguous with one or both of the 5 and 3 flanking genomic sequences that it is naturally associated with. An isolated polynucleotide can be for example a recombinant DNA molecule of any length provided that the nucleic acid sequences naturally found immediately flanking the recombinant DNA molecule in a naturally occurring genome is removed or absent. Isolated polynucleotides also include non naturally occurring nucleic acid molecules. A nucleic acid existing among hundreds to millions of other nucleic acid molecules within for example cDNA or genomic libraries or gel slices containing a genomic DNA restriction digest are not to be considered an isolated polynucleotide.

Polynucleotides of the invention can also comprise fragments that encode immunogenic polypeptides. Polynucleotides of the invention can encode full length polypeptides polypeptide fragments and variant or fusion polypeptides.

Degenerate nucleotide sequences encoding polypeptides of the invention as well as homologous nucleotide sequences that are at least about 80 or about 90 96 98 or 99 identical to the polynucleotide sequences of the invention and the complements thereof are also polynucleotides of the invention. Percent sequence identity can be calculated as described in the Polypeptides section. Degenerate nucleotide sequences are polynucleotides that encode a polypeptide of the invention or fragments thereof but differ in nucleic acid sequence from the sequence given in the polynucleotide SEQ IDs due to the degeneracy of the genetic code. Complementary DNA cDNA molecules species homologs and variants of Pg polynucleotides that encode biologically functional Pg polypeptides also are Pg polynucleotides. A polynucleotide of the invention can comprise about 21 24 27 30 40 50 100 200 300 400 500 1 000 or more nucleotides of a polynucleic acid sequence of the invention.

Polynucleotides of the invention can be isolated from nucleic acid sequences present in for example a biological sample such as plaque blood serum saliva or tissue from an infected individual. Polynucleotides can also be synthesized in the laboratory for example using an automatic synthesizer. An amplification method such as PCR can be used to amplify polynucleotides from either genomic DNA or cDNA encoding the polypeptides.

Polynucleotides of the invention can comprise coding sequences for naturally occurring polypeptides or can encode altered sequences that do not occur in nature. If desired polynucleotides can be cloned into an expression vector comprising expression control elements including for example origins of replication promoters enhancers or other regulatory elements that drive expression of the polynucleotides of the invention in host cells. An expression vector can be for example a plasmid such as pBR322 pUC or ColE1 or an adenovirus vector such as an adenovirus Type 2 vector or Type 5 vector. Optionally other vectors can be used including but not limited to Sindbis virus simian virus 40 alphavirus vectors poxvirus vectors and cytomegalovirus and retroviral vectors such as murine sarcoma virus mouse mammary tumor virus Moloney murine leukemia virus and Rous sarcoma virus. Minichromosomes such as MC and MC1 bacteriophages phagemids yeast artificial chromosomes bacterial artificial chromosomes virus particles virus like particles cosmids plasmids into which phage lambda cos sites have been inserted and replicons genetic elements that are capable of replication under their own control in a cell can also be used.

Methods for preparing polynucleotides operably linked to an expression control sequence and expressing them in a host cell are well known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 366 246. A polynucleotide of the invention is operably linked when it is positioned adjacent to one or more expression control elements which direct transcription and or translation of the polynucleotide.

Polynucleotides of the invention can be used for example as probes or primers for example PCR primers to detect the presence of Pg polynucleotides in a sample such as a biological sample. The ability of such probes and primers to specifically hybridize to Pg polynucleotide sequences will enable them to be of use in detecting the presence of complementary sequences in a given sample. Polynucleotide probes and primers of the invention can hybridize to complementary sequences in a sample such as a biological sample including plaque saliva crevicular fluid sputum blood urine feces cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid wound exudate or tissue. Polynucleotides from the sample can be for example subjected to gel electrophoresis or other size separation techniques or can be immobilized without size separation. The polynucleotide probes or primers can be labeled. Suitable labels and methods for labeling probes and primers are known in the art and include for example radioactive labels incorporated by nick translation or by kinase biotin labels fluorescent labels chemiluminescent labels bioluminescent labels metal chelator labels and enzyme labels. The polynucleotides from the sample are contacted with the probes or primers under hybridization conditions of suitable stringencies.

Depending on the application varying conditions of hybridization can be used to achieve varying degrees of selectivity of the probe or primer towards the target sequence. For applications requiring high selectivity relatively stringent conditions can be used such as low salt and or high temperature conditions such as provided by a salt concentration of from about 0.02 M to about 0.15 M salt at temperatures of from about 50 C. to about 70 C. For applications requiring less selectivity less stringent hybridization conditions can be used. For example salt conditions from about 0.14 M to about 0.9M salt at temperatures ranging form about 20 C. to about 55 C. The presence of a hybridized complex comprising the probe or primer and a complementary polynucleotide from the test sample indicates the presence of Pg or a Pg polynucleotide sequence in the sample.

Antibodies of the invention are antibody molecules that specifically and stably bind to a Pg polypeptide of the invention or fragment thereof. An antibody of the invention can be a polyclonal antibody a monoclonal antibody a single chain antibody scFv or a fragment of an antibody. Fragments of antibodies are a portion of an intact antibody comprising the antigen binding site or variable region of an intact antibody wherein the portion is free of the constant heavy chain domains of the Fc region of the intact antibody. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab Fab SH F ab and Ffragments.

An antibody of the invention can be any antibody class including for example IgG IgM IgA IgD and IgE. An antibody or fragment thereof binds to an epitope of a polypeptide of the invention. An antibody can be made in vivo in suitable laboratory animals or in vitro using recombinant DNA techniques. Means for preparing and characterizing antibodies are well know in the art. See e.g. Dean 80 23 37 1998 Dean 32 361 79 1994 Baileg 32 381 88 1994 Gullick 32 389 99 1994 Drenckhahn et al. 37 7 56 1993 Morrison 10 239 65 1992 Wright et al. 12 125 68 1992 . For example polyclonal antibodies can be produced by administering a polypeptide of the invention to an animal such as a human or other primate mouse rat rabbit guinea pig goat pig cow sheep donkey or horse. Serum from the immunized animal is collected and the antibodies are purified from the plasma by for example precipitation with ammonium sulfate followed by chromatography such as affinity chromatography. Techniques for producing and processing polyclonal antibodies are known in the art.

 Specifically binds or specific for means that a first antigen e.g. a polypeptide recognizes and binds to an antibody of the invention with greater affinity than to other non specific molecules. A non specific molecule is an antigen that shares no common epitope with the first antigen. For example an antibody raised against an antigen e.g. a polypeptide to which it binds more efficiently than to a non specific antigen can be described as specifically binding to the antigen. In a preferred embodiment an antibody or antigen binding portion thereof specifically binds to a polypeptide consisting of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37 when it binds with a binding affinity Kof about 10l mol or more. Specific binding can be tested using for example an enzyme linked immunosorbant assay ELISA a radioimmunoassay RIA or a western blot assay using methodology well known in the art.

Additionally monoclonal antibodies directed against epitopes present on a polypeptide of the invention can also be readily produced. For example normal B cells from a mammal such as a mouse which was immunized with a polypeptide of the invention can be fused with for example HAT sensitive mouse myeloma cells to produce hybridomas. Hybridomas producing Pg specific antibodies can be identified using RIA or ELISA and isolated by cloning in semi solid agar or by limiting dilution. Clones producing Pg specific antibodies are isolated by another round of screening. Monoclonal antibodies can be screened for specificity using standard techniques for example by binding a polypeptide of the invention to a microtiter plate and measuring binding of the monoclonal antibody by an ELISA assay. Techniques for producing and processing monoclonal antibodies are known in the art. See e.g. Kohler Milstein Nature 256 495 1975 . Particular isotypes of a monoclonal antibody can be prepared directly by selecting from the initial fusion or prepared secondarily from a parental hybridoma secreting a monoclonal antibody of a different isotype by using a sib selection technique to isolate class switch variants. See Steplewski et al. 82 8653 1985 Spria et al. 74 307 1984. Monoclonal antibodies of the invention can also be recombinant monoclonal antibodies. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 893 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567. Antibodies of the invention can also be chemically constructed. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980.

Antibodies of the invention can be chimeric see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 482 856 humanized see e.g. Jones et al. 321 522 1986 Reichmann et al. 332 323 1988 Presta 2 593 1992 or human antibodies. Human antibodies can be made by for example direct immortilization phage display transgenic mice or a Trimera methodology see e.g. Reisener et al. 16 242 246 1998 .

Antibodies that specifically bind Pg antigens e.g. Pg polypeptides are particularly useful for detecting the presence of Pg or Pg antigens in a sample such as a serum blood plaque or saliva sample from an Pg infected animal such as a human. An immunoassay for Pg or an Pg antigen can utilize one antibody or several antibodies. An immunoassay for Pg or an Pg antigen can use for example a monoclonal antibody directed towards an Pg epitope a combination of monoclonal antibodies directed towards epitopes of one Pg polypeptide monoclonal antibodies directed towards epitopes of different Pg polypeptides polyclonal antibodies directed towards the same Pg antigen polyclonal antibodies directed towards different Pg antigens or a combination of monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. Immunoassay protocols can be based upon for example competition direct reaction or sandwich type assays using for example labeled antibody. Antibodies of the invention can be labeled with any type of label known in the art including for example fluorescent chemiluminescent radioactive enzyme colloidal metal radioisotope and bioluminescent labels.

Antibodies of the invention or fragments thereof can be bound to a support and used to detect the presence of Pg or a Pg antigen. Supports include for example glass polystyrene polypropylene polyethylene dextran nylon amylases natural and modified celluloses polyacrylamides agaroses and magletite.

Polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies of the invention can further be used to isolate Pg organisms or Pg antigens by immunoaffinity columns. The antibodies can be affixed to a solid support by for example adsorption or by covalent linkage so that the antibodies retain their immunoselective activity. Optionally spacer groups can be included so that the antigen binding site of the antibody remains accessible. The immobilized antibodies can then be used to bind Pg organisms or Pg antigens from a sample such as a biological sample including saliva plaque crevicular fluid serum sputum blood urine feces cerebrospinal fluid amniotic fluid wound exudate or tissue. The bound Pg organisms or Pg antigens are recovered from the column matrix by for example a change in pH.

Antibodies of the invention can also be used in immunolocalization studies to analyze the presence and distribution of a polypeptide of the invention during various cellular events or physiological conditions. Antibodies can also be used to identify molecules involved in passive immunization and to identify molecules involved in the biosynthesis of non protein antigens. Identification of such molecules can be useful in vaccine development. Antibodies of the invention including for example monoclonal antibodies and single chain antibodies can be used to monitor the course of amelioration of a disease caused by Pg. By measuring the increase or decrease of Pg antibodies to Pg antigens in a test sample from an animal it can be determined whether a particular therapeutic regiment aimed at ameliorating the disorder is effective. Antibodies can be detected and or quantified using for example direct binding assays such as RIA ELISA or western blot assays.

An antibody of the invention can be used in a method of the diagnosis of Pg infection by obtaining a test sample from an animal suspected of having an Pg infection. The test sample is contacted with an antibody of the invention under conditions enabling the formation of an antibody antigen complex i.e. an immunocomplex . The amount of antibody antigen complexes can be determined by methodology known in the art. A level that is higher than that formed in a control sample indicates a Pg infection. Alternatively a polypeptide of the invention can be contacted with a test sample. Pg antibodies in a positive body sample will form an antigen antibody complex under suitable conditions. The amount of antibody antigen complexes can be determined by methods known in the art.

The methods of the invention can be used to detect antibodies or antibody fragments specific for Pg in a test sample such as a biological sample an environmental sample or a laboratory sample. A biological sample can include for example sera blood cells blood saliva plaque or tissue from an animal or human. The test sample can be untreated precipitated fractionated separated diluted concentrated or purified before combining with a polypeptide of the invention.

The methods comprise contacting a polypeptide of the invention with a test sample under conditions that allow a polypeptide antibody complex i.e. an immunocomplex to form. That is a polypeptide of the invention specifically binds to an antibody specific for Pg located in the sample. One of skill in the art is familiar with assays and conditions that are used to detect antibody polypeptide complex binding. The formation of a complex between polypeptides and anti Pg antibodies in the sample are detected.

An antibody of the invention can be used in a method of the diagnosis Pg infection by obtaining a test sample from a human or animal suspected of having a Pg infection. The test sample is contacted with an antibody of the invention under conditions enabling the formation of an antibody antigen complex i.e. an immunocomplex . The amount of antibody antigen complexes can be determined by methodology known in the art. A level that is higher than that formed in a control sample indicates a Pg infection. Alternatively a polypeptide of the invention can be contacted with a test sample. Pg antibodies in a positive body sample will form an antigen antibody complex under suitable conditions. The amount of antibody antigen complexes can be determined by methods known in the art.

In one embodiment of the invention the polypeptide antibody complex is detected when an indicator reagent such as an enzyme conjugate which is bound to the antibody catalyzes a detectable reaction. Optionally an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound can be applied to the polypeptide antibody complex under conditions that allow formation of a polypeptide antibody indicator complex. The polypeptide antibody indicator complex is detected. Optionally the polypeptide or antibody can be labeled with an indicator reagent prior to the formation of a polypeptide antibody complex. The method can optionally comprise a positive or negative control.

In one embodiment of the invention antibodies of the invention are attached to a solid phase or substrate. A test sample potentially comprising a protein comprising a polypeptide of the invention is added to the substrate. Antibodies that specifically bind polypeptides of the invention are added. The antibodies can be the same antibodies used on the solid phase or can be from a different source or species and can be linked to an indicator reagent such as an enzyme conjugate. Wash steps can be performed prior to each addition. A chromophore or enzyme substrate is added and color is allowed to develop. The color reaction is stopped and the color can be quantified using for example a spectrophotometer.

In another embodiment of the invention antibodies of the invention are attached to a solid phase or substrate. A test sample potentially comprising a protein comprising a polypeptide of the invention is added to the substrate. Second anti species antibodies that specifically bind polypeptides of the invention are added. These second antibodies are from a different species than the solid phase antibodies. Third anti species antibodies are added that specifically bind the second antibodies and that do not specifically bind the solid phase antibodies are added. The third antibodies can comprise and indicator reagent such as an enzyme conjugate. Wash steps can be performed prior to each addition. A chromophore or enzyme substrate is added and color is allowed to develop. The color reaction is stopped and the color can be quantified using for example a spectrophotometer.

Assays of the invention include but are not limited to those based on competition direct reaction or sandwich type assays including but not limited to enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA western blot IFA radioimmunoassay RIA hemagglutination HA and fluorescence polarization immunoassay FPIA .

Assays can use solid phases or substrates or can be performed by immunoprecipitation or any other methods that do not utilize solid phases. Where a solid phase or substrate is used a polypeptide of the invention is directly or indirectly attached to a solid support or a substrate such as a microtiter well magnetic bead non magnetic bead column matrix membrane fibrous mat composed of synthetic or natural fibers e.g. glass or cellulose based materials or thermoplastic polymers such as polyethylene polypropylene or polyester sintered structure composed of particulate materials e.g. glass or various thermoplastic polymers or cast membrane film composed of nitrocellulose nylon polysulfone or the like generally synthetic in nature . All of these substrate materials can be used in suitable shapes such as films sheets or plates or they may be coated onto or bonded or laminated to appropriate inert carriers such as paper glass plastic films or fabrics. Suitable methods for immobilizing peptides on solid phases include ionic hydrophobic covalent interactions and the like.

In one type of assay format one or more polypeptides can be coated on a solid phase or substrate. A test sample suspected of containing an anti Pg antibody or fragment thereof is incubated with an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound conjugated to an antibody or antibody fragment specific for Pg for a time and under conditions sufficient to form antigen antibody complexes of either antibodies of the test sample to the polypeptides of the solid phase or the indicator reagent compound conjugated to an antibody specific for Pg to the polypeptides of the solid phase. The reduction in binding of the indicator reagent conjugated to a Pg antibody to the solid phase can be quantitatively measured. A measurable reduction in the signal compared to the signal generated from a confirmed negative Pg test sample indicates the presence of anti Pg antibody in the test sample. This type of assay can quantitate the amount of anti Pg antibodies in a test sample.

In another type of assay format one or more polypeptides of the invention are coated onto a support or substrate. A polypeptide of the invention is conjugated to an indicator reagent and added to a test sample. This mixture is applied to the support or substrate. If Pg antibodies are present in the test sample they will bind the polypeptide conjugated to an indicator reagent and to the polypeptide immobilized on the support. The polypeptide antibody indicator complex can then be detected. This type of assay can quantitate the amount of anti Pg antibodies in a test sample.

In another type of assay format one or more polypeptides of the invention are coated onto a support or substrate. The test sample is applied to the support or substrate and incubated. Unbound components from the sample are washed away by washing the solid support with a wash solution. If Pg antibodies are present in the test sample they will bind to the polypeptide coated on the solid phase. This polypeptide antibody complex can be detected using a second species specific antibody that is conjugated to an indicator reagent. The polypeptide antibody anti species antibody indicator complex can then be detected. This type of assay can quantitate the amount of anti Pg antibodies in a test sample.

The formation of a polypeptide antibody complex or a polypeptide antibody indicator complex can be detected by radiometric colormetric fluorometric size separation or precipitation methods. Optionally detection of a polypeptide antibody complex is by the addition of a secondary antibody that is coupled to an indicator reagent comprising a signal generating compound. Indicator reagents comprising signal generating compounds labels associated with a polypeptide antibody complex can be detected using the methods described above and include chromogenic agents catalysts such as enzyme conjugates fluorescent compounds such as fluorescein and rhodamine chemiluminescent compounds such as dioxetanes acridiniums phenanthridiniums ruthenium and luminol radioactive elements direct visual labels as well as cofactors inhibitors magnetic particles and the like. Examples of enzyme conjugates include alkaline phosphatase horseradish peroxidase beta galactosidase and the like. The selection of a particular label is not critical but it will be capable of producing a signal either by itself or in conjunction with one or more additional substances.

Formation of the complex is indicative of the presence of anti Pg antibodies in a test sample. Therefore the methods of the invention can be used to diagnose Pg infection in a patient.

The methods of the invention can also indicate the amount or quantity of anti Pg antibodies in a test sample. With many indicator reagents such as enzyme conjugates the amount of antibody present is proportional to the signal generated. Depending upon the type of test sample it can be diluted with a suitable buffer reagent concentrated or contacted with a solid phase without any manipulation. For example it usually is preferred to test serum or plasma samples that previously have been diluted or concentrate specimens such as urine in order to determine the presence and or amount of antibody present.

The invention further comprises assay kits e.g. articles of manufacture for detecting anti Pg antibodies or antibody fragments Pg or Pg polypeptides in a sample. A kit comprises one or more polypeptides of the invention and means for determining binding of the polypeptide to anti Pg antibodies or antibody fragments in the sample. A kit or article of manufacture can also comprise one or more antibodies or antibody fragments of the invention and means for determining binding of the antibodies or antibody fragments to Pg or Pg polypeptides in the sample. A kit can comprise a device containing one or more polypeptides or antibodies of the invention and instructions for use of the one or more polypeptides or antibodies for e.g. the identification of a Pg infection in a mammal. The kit can also comprise packaging material comprising a label that indicates that the one or more polypeptides or antibodies of the kit can be used for the identification of Pg infection. Other components such as buffers controls and the like known to those of ordinary skill in art can be included in such test kits. The polypeptides antibodies assays and kits of the invention are useful for example in the diagnosis of individual cases of Pg infection in a patient as well as epidemiological studies of Pg.

Polypeptides and assays of the invention can be combined with other polypeptides or assays to detect the presence of Pg along with other organisms. For example polypeptides and assays of the invention can be combined with reagents that detect

Polypeptides polynucleotides and antibodies of the invention can be used to treat ameliorate or prevent a disease caused by Pg such rapidly progressive or refractory adult periodontitis endocarditis thyroid gland abscesses urinary tract infections brain abscesses and vertebral osteomyelitis and cardiovascular disease.

For example an antibody such as a monoclonal antibody of the invention or fragments thereof can be administered to an animal such as a human. In one embodiment of the invention an antibody or fragment thereof is administered to an animal in a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. A pharmaceutical composition comprises a therapeutically effective amount of an antibody or fragments thereof. A therapeutically effective amount is an amount effective in alleviating the symptoms of Pg infection or in reducing the amount of Pg organisms in a subject.

Polypeptides or polynucleotides of the invention can be present in an immunogenic composition and used to elicit an immune response in a host. An immunogenic composition is capable of inducing an immune response in an animal. An immunogenic polypeptide or polynucleotide composition of the invention is particularly useful in sensitizing an immune system of an animal such that as one result an immune response is produced that ameliorates or prevents the effect of Pg infection. The elicitation of an immune response in animal model can be useful to determine for example optimal doses or administration routes. Elicitation of an immune response can also be used to treat prevent or ameliorate a disease or infection caused by Pg. An immune response includes humoral immune responses or cell mediated immune responses or a combination thereof. An immune response can also comprise the promotion of a generalized host response e.g. by promoting the production of defensins.

The generation of an antibody titer by an animal against Pg can be important in protection from infection and clearance of infection. Detection and or quantification of antibody titers after delivery of a polypeptide or polynucleotide can be used to identify epitopes that are particularly effective at eliciting antibody titers. Epitopes responsible for a strong antibody response to Pg can be identified by eliciting antibodies directed against Pg polypeptides of different lengths. Antibodies elicited by a particular polypeptide epitope can then be tested using for example an ELISA assay to determine which polypeptides contain epitopes that are most effective at generating a strong response. Polypeptides or fusion proteins that contain these epitopes or polynucleotides encoding the epitopes can then be constructed and used to elicit a strong antibody response.

A polypeptide polynucleotide or antibody of the invention can be administered to a mammal such as a mouse rabbit guinea pig macaque baboon chimpanzee human cow sheep pig horse dog cat or to animals such as chickens or ducks to elicit antibodies in vivo. Injection of a polynucleotide has the practical advantages of simplicity of construction and modification. Further injection of a polynucleotide results in the synthesis of a polypeptide in the host. Thus the polypeptide is presented to the host immune system with native post translational modifications structure and conformation. A polynucleotide can be delivered to a subject as naked DNA. 

Administration of a polynucleotide polypeptide or antibody can be by any means known in the art including intramuscular intravenous intrapulmonary intramuscular intradermal intraperitoneal or subcutaneous injection aerosol intranasal infusion pump suppository mucosal topical and oral including injection using a biological ballistic gun gene gun . A polynucleotide polypeptide or antibody can be accompanied by a protein carrier for oral administration. A combination of administration methods can also be used to elicit an immune response. Antibodies can be administered at a daily dose of about 0.5 mg to about 200 mg. In one embodiment of the invention antibodies are administered at a daily dose of about 20 to about 100 mg.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the art and are described in for example Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. A. R. Gennaro ed. 1985 . The carrier should not itself induce the production of antibodies harmful to the host. Such carriers include but are not limited to large slowly metabolized macromolecules such as proteins polysaccharides such as latex functionalized SEPHAROSE agarose cellulose cellulose beads and the like polylactic acids polyglycolic acids polymeric amino acids such as polyglutamic acid polylysine and the like amino acid copolymers peptoids lipitoids and inactive avirulent virus particles or bacterial cells. Liposomes hydrogels cyclodextrins biodegradable nanocapsules and bioadhesives can also be used as a carrier for a composition of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be used in compositions of the invention for example mineral salts such as hydrochlorides hydrobromides phosphates or sulfates as well as salts of organic acids such as acetates proprionates malonates or benzoates. Especially useful protein substrates are serum albumins keyhole limpet hemocyanin immunoglobulin molecules thyroglobulin ovalbumin tetanus toxoid and other proteins well known to those of skill in the art. Compositions of the invention can also contain liquids or excipients such as water saline phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution Hank s solution glucose glycerol dextrose malodextrin ethanol or the like singly or in combination as well as substances such as wetting agents emulsifying agents tonicity adjusting agents detergent or pH buffering agents. Additional active agents such as bacteriocidal agents can also be used.

If desired co stimulatory molecules which improve immunogen presentation to lymphocytes such as B7 1 or B7 2 or cytokines such as MIP1 GM CSF IL 2 and IL 12 can be included in a composition of the invention. Optionally adjuvants can also be included in a composition. Adjuvants are substances that can be used to nonspecifically augment a specific immune response. Generally an adjuvant and a polypeptide of the invention are mixed prior to presentation to the immune system or presented separately but are presented into the same site of the animal. Adjuvants can include for example oil adjuvants e.g. Freund s complete and incomplete adjuvants mineral salts e.g. Alk SO AlNa SO AlNH SO Silica Alum Al OH and Ca PO polynucleotides i.e. Polyic and Poly AU acids and certain natural substances e.g. wax D from as well as substances found in and members of the genus . Adjuvants which can be used include but are not limited to MF59 0 aluminum hydroxide N acetyl muramyl L threonyl D isoglutamine thr MDP N acetyl nor muramyl L alanyl D isoglutamine CGP 11637 referred to as nor MDP N acetylmuramyl L alanyl D isoglutaminyl L alanine 2 1 2 dipalmitoyl sn glycero 3 hydroxyphosphoryloxy ethylamine CGP 19835A referred to as MTP PE and RIBI which contains three components extracted from bacteria monophosphoryl lipid A trehalose dimycolate and cell wall skeleton MPL TDM CWS in a 2 squalene TWEEN 80 emulsion.

The compositions of the invention can be formulated into ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers injectable formulations mouthwashes dentrifices and the like. The percentage of one or more polypeptides polynucleotides or antibodies of the invention in such compositions and preparations can vary from 0.1 to 60 of the weight of the unit.

Administration of polypeptides polynucleotides or antibodies can elicit an immune response in the animal that lasts for at least 1 week 1 month 3 months 6 months 1 year or longer. Optionally an immune response can be maintained in an animal by providing one or more booster injections of the polypeptide polynucleotide or antibodies at 1 month 3 months 6 months 1 year or more after the primary injection. If desired co stimulatory molecules or adjuvants can also be provided before after or together with the compositions.

A composition of the invention comprising a polypeptide polynucleotide antibody or a combination thereof is administered in a manner compatible with the particular composition used and in an amount that is effective to elicit an immune response as detected by for example an ELISA. A polynucleotide can be injected intramuscularly to a large mammal such as a baboon chimpanzee or human at a dose of 1 ng kg 10 ng kg 100 ng kg 1000 ng kg 0.001 mg kg 0.1 mg kg or 0.5 mg kg. A polypeptide or antibody can be injected intramuscularly to a large mammal such as a human at a dose of 0.01 0.05 0.5 0.75 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 5 or 10 mg kg.

Polypeptides polynucleotides or antibodies or a combination thereof can be administered either to an animal that is not infected with Pg or can be administered to an Pg infected animal. The particular dosages of polynucleotide polypeptides or antibodies in a composition will depend on many factors including but not limited to the species age gender concurrent medication general condition of the mammal to which the composition is administered and the mode of administration of the composition. An effective amount of the composition of the invention can be readily determined using only routine experimentation.

Additionally a organism can be genetically engineered to remove one or more of the polynucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide consisting essentially of SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 or 37. The organism can be useful in for example replacement therapy.

The materials for use in a method of the invention can be present in a kit. A kit can comprise one or more elements used in the method. For example a kit can contain an antibody of the invention in a container and Pg polypeptides in another container. The kit and containers are labeled with their contents and the kit includes instructions for use of the elements in the containers. The constituents of the kit can be present in for example liquid or lypholized form.

All patents patent applications and other scientific or technical writings referred to anywhere herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The invention illustratively described herein suitably can be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations that are not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example in each instance herein any of the terms comprising consisting essentially of and consisting of may be replaced with either of the other two terms while retaining their ordinary meanings. The terms and expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention that in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by embodiments optional features modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art and that such modifications and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the description and the appended claims.

In addition where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups or other grouping of alternatives those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group or other group.

The roles of nine Pg genes that are differentially regulated in the invasive mechanism of were identified. Four of these genes encode hypothetical proteins PG0242 PG0686 PG0717 and PG1683 and five genes encode a protein ferritin PG1286 a putative UDP N acetylglucosamine 2 epimerase PG0120 a putative lipoprotein RagB PG0186 a putative ABC transporter permease protein PG0280 and a putative formate tetrahydrofolate ligase PG1321 . See . To construct isogenic mutants in these genes an internal fragment of each gene was amplified and cloned into a suicide vector pVA3000 containing an ErmF AM cassette. strain S17 1 cells were transformed by electroporation and the plasmids were then transformed into W83 cells by conjugation. The conjugation mixture was spread onto blood agar plates containing 30 g ml of gentamycin and 5 g ml of clindamycin to select for mutants. Mutational insertions were confirmed by southern blot. Homologous recombination of the vector into the chromosome resulted in a truncated gene .

The plasmids were then transformed into W83 cells by conjugation and mutants were isolated on blood agar plates containing clindamycin. Mutational insertions were confirmed by southern blot analysis. Mutants W83 0242 W83 0686 W83 0717 W83 1286 and W83 1683 W83 0120 W83 0186 W83 0280 W83 1321 and strain W83 control were challenged to invade HCAE cells for at least 2.5 h.

The results indicated that all mutants had a decreased invasive activity compared to wild type strain W83. Four mutants showed an altered ability to adhere to HCAE cells W83 0242 adhered 7.7 fold less p

Invasion of HCAEC. Invasion of strain W83 and mutants in HCAE cells were assayed. Late log phase cultures of strain W83 and mutant strains were used to inoculate in EBM 2 complete antibiotic free medium at a final concentration of 107 bacteria per ml. Bacterial suspensions were added to confluent HCAEC monolayers 105 cells in 24 well plates and incubated at 37 C. for 1.5 h. After this time unattached bacteria were removed by washing the monolayers 3 times with PBS. Then EBM 2 medium with 300 g ml of gentamycin and 200 g ml of metronidazole was added to each well to kill extracellular bacteria for 1.0 h at 37 C. To determine the number of internalized bacteria HCAE cells were ruptured with 1 ml of sterile distilled water at 37 C. for 20 minutes. Cell lysates were serially diluted plated on blood agar plates and incubated anaerobically at 37 C. for 10 days to count the colonies.

The results indicated that all mutants had a decreased invasive activity compared to wild type strain W83 and . Two mutants showed an altered ability to adhere to HCAE cells W83 0242 adhered 11.7 fold less p

The low invasion efficiencies of mutants W83 0242 W83 1683 W83 0120 and W83 0186 are likely due to their altered ability to adhere to the human cells therefore genes PG0242 PG1683 PG0120 and PG0186 may be important for the adherence of to HCAE cells. Mutants W83 0686 W83 0717 and W83 1286 showed no difference in their ability to adhere when compared with strain W83 however they invaded less then wild type suggesting these genes might be important for invasiveness and or survival inside of HCAE cells.

Therefore polypeptides shown in SEQ ID NOs 2 4 6 8 10 11 29 31 33 35 and or 37 can be useful in inter alia detecting invasive Pg infection in an animal.

cDNA was generated using random primers for reverse transcription Invitrogen Life Technologies Carlsbad Calif. . The primers were annealed at 70 C. for 10 min followed by snap freezing in a dry ice ethanol bath for 30 sec and then centrifugation for 1 min. The reaction mixture Superscript II buffer 0.1 M DTT and aa dNTP mix was then incubated with Superscript II reverse transcriptase Invitrogen at 42 C. overnight. Residual RNA was removed by alkaline treatment followed by neutralization and cDNA was purified with a QIAQUICK PCR purification kit Qiagen . Purified cDNAs from the W83 and LY2001 strains were each labeled with indocarbocyanine Cy3 dUTP and indodicarbocyanine Cy5 dUTP Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. and were processed using a dye swapping design. A total of 6 slides were used. Wild type cDNA was labeled with cy3 for 3 slides and with cy5 for the remaining 3 slides. This strategy was used to avoid any differences caused by the labeling activity of cy3 versus that of cy5. The labeling mixtures were cleaned again using a QIAQUICK PCR purification kit Qiagen . Equal amounts of labeled cDNA from the W83 and LY2001 strains were used to hybridize the microarray slides. Hybridization was carried out at 42 C. for 18 hours in the dark. After hybridization the slides were washed and scanned using a GENEPIX scanner Axon instruments Inc Union City Calif. at 532 nm Cy3 channel and 635 nm Cy5 channel and the images were stored on discs.

Data from six individual experiments were normalized and then analyzed using the Spotfinder Software The Institute of Genomic Research . The data points with a density below 100 000 were discarded for analysis according to the manufacturer s suggestion. A cutoff ratio of 1.5 1 was used on all the slides. SAM software Significant Analysis of Microarray version 1.15 Stanford University CA was used to test statistically significant results from the microarray experiments. This statistical analysis involved factoring the change in expression of each gene relative to the standard deviation of all replicates for that gene. Therefore genes with a small change were not discounted if the ratios were consistent among repeats thus effectively reducing false negatives. False positives were also avoided when genes had poor reproducibility between replicates. Thus this method of statistical analysis maximized both the quantity of genes found and the reliability of the results. Spot intensities for all channels were input into SAM as paired unlogged values. Delta values were chosen according to the lowest false discovery rate which for this study was 4.7 . In this experiment the genes with expression ratios of 1.5 were considered biologically significant.

Nine genes were selected for verification by RT PCR. For each of the genes tested primers Table 1 were designed using Beacon Design software Premier Biosoft International Palo Alto Calif. to amplify products from 75 to 150 bp. A standard curve was created using serial dilutions of the gel purified DNA fragment of each gene and a 16S rRNA gene fragment was used as an internal control. Reverse transcription using Superscript II reverse transcriptase Invitrogen was performed. The cDNA was used as a template for RT PCR. In every run of RT PCR two standard curves were created one for 16S rRNA and one for the target gene. The unknown cDNA samples from wild type W83 and mutant LY2001 were compared to the standard curve to calculate the starting quantity in each sample. The ratio from real time PCR for each target gene was calculated for both samples.

