---

title: Invariant radial iris segmentation
abstract: A method and computer product are presented for identifying a subject by biometric analysis of an eye. First, an image of the iris of a subject to be identified is acquired. Texture enhancements may be done to the image as desired, but are not necessary. Next, the iris image is radially segmented into a selected number of radial segments, for example 200 segments, each segment representing 1.8° of the iris scan. After segmenting, each radial segment is analyzed, and the peaks and valleys of color intensity are detected in the iris radial segment. These detected peaks and valleys are mathematically transformed into a data set used to construct a template. The template represents the subject's scanned and analyzed iris, being constructed of each transformed data set from each of the radial segments. After construction, this template may be stored in a database, or used for matching purposes if the subject is already registered in the database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442276&OS=08442276&RS=08442276
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08442276
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060310
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 778 770 filed Mar. 3 2006.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. F10801 EE5.2. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 043 366 entitled A 1D Polar Based Segmentation Approach filed Jan. 26 2005. The disclosure of the related document is hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The invention is directed towards biometric recognition specifically to an improved approach to radial iris segmentation.

Biometrics is the study of automated methods for uniquely recognizing humans based upon one or more intrinsic physical or behavioral traits. In information technology biometric authentications refer to technologies that measure and analyze human physical characteristics for authentication purposes. Examples of physical characteristics include fingerprints eye retinas and irises facial patterns and hand measurements.

A leading concern of existing biometric systems is that individual features that identify humans from others can be easily missed due to the lack of accurate acquisition of the biometric data or due to the deviation of operational conditions. Iris recognition has been seen as a low error high success method of retrieving biometric data. However iris scanning and image processing has been costly and time consuming. Fingerprinting facial patterns and hand measurements have afforded cheaper quicker solutions.

During the past few years iris recognition has matured sufficiently to allow it to compete economically with other biometric methods. However inconsistency of acquisition conditions of iris images has led to rejecting valid subjects or validating imposters especially when the scan is done under uncontrolled environmental conditions.

In contrast under controlled conditions iris recognition has proven to be very effective. This is true because iris recognition systems rely on more distinct features than other biometric techniques such as facial patterns and hand measurements and therefore provides a reliable solution by offering a much more discriminating biometric data set.

Although prototype systems and techniques had been proposed in the early 1980s it was not until research in the 1990s that autonomous iris recognition systems were developed. The concepts discovered in this research have since been implemented in field devices. The overall approach is based on the conversion of a raw iris image into a numerical code that can be easily manipulated. The robustness of this approach and the following alternative approaches rely heavily on accurate iris segmentation. Iris segmentation is the process of locating and isolating the iris from the other parts of the eye. Iris segmentation is essential to the system s use. Computing iris features requires a high quality segmentation process that focuses on the subject s iris and properly extracts its borders. Such an acquisition process is sensitive to the acquisition conditions and has proven to be a very challenging problem. Current systems try to maximize the segmentation accuracy by constraining the operation conditions. Constraints may be placed on the lighting levels position of the scanned eye and environmental temperature. These constraints can lead to a more accurate iris acquisition but are not practical in all real time operations.

Significant progress has been made to mitigate this problem however these developments were mostly built around the original methodology namely circular elliptical contour segmentation that has proven to be problematic under uncontrolled conditions. Other work introduces concepts which compete with the above discussed methodology but still suffer similar issues with segmentation robustness under uncontrolled conditions.

Thus it would be desirable to have a method that provides an iris recognition technique that is well suited for iris at a distance applications i.e. a system utilizing unconstrained conditions which still provides an accurate real time result based on the collected biometric data.

In accordance with the principles of the present invention a new feature extraction technique is presented along with a new encoding scheme resulting in an improved biometric algorithm. This new extraction technique is based on a simplified polar segmentation POSE . The new encoding scheme utilizes the new extraction technique to extract actual local iris features using a process with low computational load.

The encoding scheme does not rely on accurate segmentation of the outer bounds of the iris region which is essential to prior art techniques. Rather it relies on the identification of peaks and valleys in the iris i.e. the noticeable points of change in color intensity in the iris . Advantageously regardless of a chosen filter the encoding scheme does not rely on the exact location of the occurrence of peaks detected in the iris but rather relies on the magnitude of detected peaks relative to a referenced first peak. Since this algorithm does not rely on the exact location of pattern peaks valleys it does not require accurate segmentation of the outer boundary of the iris which in turn eliminates the need for a normalization process.

The overall function of the present invention can be summarized as follows. First the iris is preprocessed and then localized using an enhanced segmentation process based on a POSE approach herein referred to as invariant radial POSE segmentation. During the segmentation process all obscurant parts i.e. pupil eyelid eyelashes sclera and other non essential parts of the eye are dropped out of the analysis if the obscuration reaches the inner border of the iris. Lighting correction and contrast improvement are processed to compensate for differences in image lighting and reflective conditions. The captured iris image is unwrapped into several radial segments and each segment is analyzed to generate a one dimensional dataset representing the peak and or valley data for that segment. The peak and or valley data is one dimensional in the sense that peaks and or valleys are ordered in accordance with their position along a straight line directed radially outward from the center of the iris. In one embodiment the iris image is unwrapped into a one dimensional polar representation of the iris signature in which the data for only a single peak per radial segment is stored. In one implementation the magnitude of the outermost peak from the pupil iris border per segment is stored. In another implementation the magnitude of the largest peak in the segment is stored. In another embodiment the data for a plurality of peaks and or valleys is stored per radial segment. In this embodiment each peak and or valley is recorded as a one bit value indicating its magnitude relative to another peak and or valley in the segment such as the immediately preceding peak valley along the one dimensional direction. The data for all of the radial segments is concatenated into a template representing the data for the entire iris scan. That template can be compared to stored templates to find a match.

A leading concern of existing biometric systems is that individual features which identify humans from others can be easily missed due to the lack of accurate data acquisition or due to deviations in operational conditions. During the past few years iris recognition has matured to a point that allows it to compete with more common biometric means such as fingerprinting. However inconsistencies in acquisition conditions of iris images often leads to rejecting valid subjects or validating imposters especially under uncontrolled operational environments such as environments where the lighting is not closely controlled. In contrast under controlled conditions iris recognition has proven to be very effective. This is so because iris recognition systems rely on more distinct features than other common biometric means providing a reliable solution by offering a more discriminating biometric.

The major downfall of these prior art techniques is that the system focuses on the outer border of the iris to normalize the iris scaling to allow for uniform matching. Due to many factors including eyelids and eyelashes which may obscure the outer iris border and lightly colored irises that may be difficult to distinguish from the sclera the outer border may be impossible to accurately map resulting in an incorrect segmentation of the subject s iris which in turn negatively impacts the rest of the biometric recognition process. In addition when applied to uncontrolled conditions these segmentation techniques result in many errors. Such conditions may include subjects captured at various ranges from the acquisition device or subjects who may not have their eye directly aligned with the imaging equipment.

This technique is referred to as being one dimensional because rather than collecting two dimensional image data per radial segment as in the prior art the collected iris data per radial segment has only one signal dimension. This process eliminates the need to estimate an obstructed outer boundary of the iris segment the outer bound of the iris and calculate exact parameters of circles ellipses or any other shapes needed to estimate a missing portion of the outer boundary.

Iris is scanned utilizing the invariant radial POSE process. Rather than concentrating on the outer border of the iris as the process in does the invariant radial POSE process locates and identifies the peaks and valleys present in the scanned iris and creates an iris map. helps illustrate one form of iris map that can represent the peak and or valley data in an iris scan. In the data for only one peak is stored per radial segment. To construct an iris map in accordance with this embodiment of the invention first the iris is segmented into a set number of radial segments for example 200 segments. Thus each segment represents a 1.8 degree slice of a complete 360 degree scan of the iris. After each of the 200 segments is analyzed the data for one characteristic peak in the segment is stored. In the embodiment illustrated in the peak selected for representation in each radial segment is the peak that is outermost from the pupil iris border. In alternative embodiments the selected peak may be the greatest peak other than the peak at the pupil iris border the sharpest peak or the innermost peak. If the criterion is the outermost peak it is preferable to use the outermost peak within a predefined distance of the pupil iris border since as one gets closer to the iris sclera border the peaks and valleys tend to become less distinct and therefore less reliable as a criterion for identifying subjects.

Alternately the data corresponding to valleys instead of peaks may be recorded. In fact the recorded data need not necessarily even be a peak or valley but may be any other readily identifiable color or contrast characteristic. The distance from the center of the pupil of whichever peak or valley or other characteristic is selected for representation is stored. In a preferred embodiment the radial distance is reported as a relative value relative to the radial distance of a reference peak from the center of the pupil. In this manner it does not require a normalization procedure of the iris scan in order to compensate for changes to the iris due to environmental conditions e.g. pupil dilation ambient light . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the reference peak is the peak at the pupil iris border in that segment which usually if not always will be the greatest peak in the segment.

For purposes of visualization one may consider the conversion of the peaks and valleys data into the graph shown in to be an unwrapping of the iris about the normal of the pupil iris border i.e. perpendicular to the border . For example the pupil iris border is essentially a circular border. Imagine that border is a string and unwrapping that string into a straight line with the reference peaks from each radial segment represent as a discrete point as shown in .

The preceding explanation is merely for the purposes of illustration in helping a person unskilled in the related arts appreciate the process viscerally. Those of skill in the related arts will understand that the conversion of the peaks and valleys information into a one dimensional dataset is actually a rather simple mathematical transformation.

Regardless of conditions such as lighting and temperature which affects pupil diameter dilation or contraction this one dimensional iris representation will be unchanged with respect to the relative location of the reference peaks in each angular segment but may result in the shifting of the entire curve upwards or downwards. While pupil dilation and other factors may affect the absolute locations of the peaks or valleys i.e. their actual distances from the pupil border they will not affect the relative locations of the peaks and valleys in the iris relative to the reference peaks or valleys .

Note that each radial segment usually will be several pixels wide at the pupil border and become wider as the distance from the pupil iris border increases. Therefore in order to generate the one dimensional data represented in the graph of the color intensity derivative data represented by the y axis should be averaged or interpolated over the width of the segment. This representation of the interpolated data is shown in line in which each significant data peak is marked by reference numeral .

In Step a preprocessing step takes place. The preprocessing may be essentially conventional. In this step texture enhancements are performed on the scanned image. Obscurant parts of the image such as pupils eyelids eyelashes sclera and other non essential parts of the eye are dropped out of the analysis. In order to reduce the side effects of outside illumination gray scale variations and other artifacts e.g. colored contact lenses the system preprocesses the image using a local radial texture pattern LRTP . However it should be noted that the texture enhancements are not essential to the operation of the system.

The image is preprocessed using local radial texture pattern similar to but revised over that proposed in Y. Du R. Ives D. Etter T. Welch C. I. Chang A one dimensional approach for iris identification EE Dept US Naval Academy Annapolis Md. 2004.

This LRTP approach differs from that method as it avoids discontinuities due to the block analysis that was adopted in the aforementioned reference while preserving the approximation of the true mean value using the window mean instead. The mean of each window of small blocks constitutes a coarse estimate of the background illumination and thus it is subtracted from the actual values of intensities as shown in the equation above.

In Step the Invariant Radial POSE segmentation process is performed. This approach differs from traditional techniques as it does not require iris segmentation at the outer border of the iris i.e. the iris sclera border.

Particularly the process first roughly determines the iris center in the original image and then refines the center estimate and extracts the edges of the pupil. A technique for locating the center of the pupil is disclosed in aforementioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 043 366 incorporated by reference and need not be discussed further. Techniques for locating the pupil iris border also are disclosed in the aforementioned patent application and need not be discussed further.

Once the pupil edge has been found the segmentation process begins. The radial scan of the iris is done in radial segments e.g. 200 segments of 1.8 degrees each.

After the segmentation and scanning in Step the process proceeds to Step . In Step the actual feature extraction occurs based on the segmented image obtained in Step . The feature extraction process can be performed for example in accordance with any of the three embodiments previously described in connection with and B A and B respectively which detect changes in the graphical representation of the iris while not relying on the absolute location of the changes occurrence. Particularly the absolute locations change as a function of the natural dilation and contraction of the human iris when exposed to variations in environmental light conditions. Therefore the feature extraction process relies on detecting the peak and valley relative variations in magnitude and their relative locations rather than focusing on their absolute magnitudes or locations. A key advantage of this approach is that it does not require a normalization procedure of the iris scan in order to compensate for changes to the iris due to environmental conditions. A normalization procedure of the iris scan is crucial to prior art iris recognition techniques.

Next in Step the resulting peak data represented in graph is encoded into an encoded template so that it can later be efficiently compared with stored templates of iris data for known persons. Two encoding alternatives are discussed below in connection with respectively. These two are shown only for example and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.

In this encoding scheme the first I bits of every data set represents the selected reference peak the pupil iris border and is always set to a first value e.g. 11 where I 2. As one moves from left to right within the data set the bits represent peaks that are farther radially outward from the pupil iris border i.e. the x axis in A and B which represents distance from the pupil iris border . If the magnitude of a peak is greater than the magnitude of the previous peak in the graph such as graph the bits representing that peak are set to 11. Otherwise the bits are set to a second value e.g. 00. Therefore the second I bits are essentially guaranteed to be 00 since in this example the reference peak is essentially guaranteed to have the greatest magnitude in the segment and will thus always be larger than the next peak. Therefore in this encoding scheme the first four bits of each data set are irrelevant to and will not be considered during matching since they will always be identical namely 1100. In cases where the radial segment does not have at least K peaks the end of the data set is filled with a one or more third bits sets of a third value e.g. 10 or 01 that will eventually be masked in the matching step . In the case where the radial segment has more than K peaks only the K peaks closest to the pupil iris border are encoded.

Thus referring to the iris segment shown in the first left hand graph of the sequence representing the peak valley information for this segment of the iris is 1100110011001010. Particularly the first two bits represent the magnitude of the reference peak and are always 11 the second two bits represent the magnitude of the first peak in the segment and is essentially guaranteed to be 00 because it will always be smaller than the reference peak the fifth and sixth bits are 11 because the next peak is greater than the preceding peak the seventh and eighth bits are 00 because the next peak is less than the immediately preceding peak the ninth and tenth bits are 11 because the next peak is greater than the preceding peak the eleventh and twelfth bits are 00 because the next peak is less than the immediately preceding peak and the last four bits are 1010 corresponding to two sets of unknowns because this segment has only five peaks and the reference peak is the sixth peak represented in the data set .

As another example referring to the iris segment shown in the second right hand graph of the sequence representing the peak valley information for this segment of the iris is 1100000011101010 since the first two bits represent the magnitude of the reference peak and is always 11 the next two bits represent the magnitude of the first peak in the segment and are 00 because it is smaller that the reference peak the next two bits are 00 because the next peak is greater than the preceding peak the next two bits are 00 because the next peak is less than the immediately preceding peak the next two bits are 11 because the next peak is greater than the preceding peak and last six bits are 101010 because this segment has only five peaks including the reference peak .

Next in Step a template is constructed by concatenating all of the data sets corresponding to all of the radial segments in the iris scan. Thus for example if there are 200 radial segments and the number of bits used for each data set in the encoding scheme to represent the detected peaks is 16 bits all encoded binary strings are concatenated into a template of 16 200 3400 bits.

Once the data is encoded the process continues to Step . The process determines whether a scanned iris template matches a stored iris template by comparing the similarity between the corresponding bit templates. A weighted Hamming distance can be used as a metric for recognition to execute the bit wise comparisons. The comparison algorithm can incorporate a noise mask to mask out the unknown bits so that only significant bits are used in calculating the information measure distance e.g. Hamming distance . The algorithm reports a value based on the comparison. A higher value reflects fewer similarities in the templates. Therefore the lowest value is considered to be the best matching score of two templates.

To account for rotational inconsistencies and imaging misalignment when the information measure of two templates is calculated one template is shifted left and right bit wise along the angular axis and a number of information measure distance values are calculated from successive shifts. This bit wise shifting in the angular direction corresponds to rotation of the original iris region by an angular resolution unit. From the calculated information measure distances only the lowest value is considered to be the best matching score of two templates.

A weighting mechanism can be used in connection with the above mentioned matching. The bits representing the peaks closest to the pupillary region the pupil borders are the most reliable distinct data points and may be weighted higher as they represent more accurate data. All unknown bits whether present in the template to be matched or in the stored templates are weighted zero in the matching. This may be done using any reasonable technique. In one embodiment when two templates are being compared the bit positions corresponding to unknown bits of one of the two templates are always filled in with bits that match the corresponding bits of the other template.

While the above described embodiments rely on the detection and analysis of a peak in the iris this is merely shown as an example. Other embodiments can rely on the detection of valleys in the iris or any other noticeable feature in the iris.

It should be clear to persons familiar with the related arts that the process procedures and or steps of the invention described herein can be performed by a programmed computing device running software designed to cause the computing device to perform the processes procedures and or steps described herein. These processes procedures and or steps also could be performed by other forms of circuitry including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits logic circuits and state machines.

Having thus described a particular embodiment of the invention various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements as are made obvious by this disclosure are intended to be part of this description though not expressly stated herein and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and not limiting. The invention is limited only as defined in the following claims and equivalents thereto.

