---

title: Communications system with interface for enabling communication of alerts to mobile wireless communications devices
abstract: An interface device, method and computer-readable program includes a proxy operative as an agent for communicating with a plurality of mobile wireless devices using different operating protocols. A device information module is operative with the proxy and determines functional features of a wireless mobile communications device and selects a configuration file for configuring the proxy to interface with the device and enable communications of any desired alerts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07894594&OS=07894594&RS=07894594
owner: Teamon Systems, Inc.
number: 07894594
owner_city: Issaquah
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060215
---
This application is a continuation of Ser. No. 10 785 657 filed on Feb. 24 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 240 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of communication systems and more particularly the present invention relates to a system and method for communicating with and providing alerts to a wireless mobile communications device.

Users of electronic mail and messaging systems often want to be notified of an event or other alert which could be a notification that an e mail message has been received in a mailbox or be a notification regarding a telephone message stock quote notification or other notification regarding a received message. Sometimes a user may have a preferred medium or communications format for receiving the alert including an e mail Short Messaging Service SMS message a Wireless Application Protocol WAP message or other type of message to be delivered in a communications format that is preferred by the user at the destination or target address.

There have been a number of prior art proposals for solving these problems and providing alerts for events. For example sometimes an alert is delivered to a distribution engine in an output communications format desired by the user. This distribution engine however performs no transformation of an alert into a communications format desired by a user or destination address. Thus any alert must be input in the desired format. In yet another proposal the input format to an alert system can originate from a variety of sources and can be in the form Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP local files File Transfer Protocol FTP Structured Query Language SQL and other multiple formats. In this prior art proposal the alert system appears to have access to a user s personal information and settings but there is not transformation into a desired communications format.

Another drawback is that different manufacturers support different types of alert messages such as created by WAP gateways. Each brand of wireless mobile communications device often plays an important role in determining the functional features and characteristics of a device which impacts how an alert is to be received or whether any alert should be transmitted. Many service providers and other communication system providers view a client string in an attempt to configure a server where other devices support a proper protocol. Alerts are typically to be forwarded to a device. This has not always been found advantageous.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to overcome the disadvantages of prior art communication systems that provide alerts as addressed above.

The present invention advantageously provides an interface device for a communications system that uses a proxy operative as an agent for communicating with a plurality of mobile wireless communications devices using different operating protocols. A device information module is operative with the proxy as a front end proxy module for example of a mobile office platform and a protocol interface device for determining functional features of a wireless mobile communications device and selecting a configuration file from a database for configuring the proxy and enabling communications of any desired alerts. The proxy can be operative as part of the mobile office platform having a mail agent appropriate databases and operative with appropriate protocols for communicating with wireless mobile communications devices. Communication can be accomplished through a protocol engine module or other agent for communicating with data storage devices such as email clients using respective operating protocols. The proxy is part of a front end proxy module of a protocol interface device and mobile office platform.

In accordance with the present invention the device information module can operative for determining functional features of the wireless mobile communications device by viewing intermediate proxies and header information received from the wireless mobile communications device. This information can also include client brand and gateway information. The device information module can be operative for determining which functional features are enabled for different wireless mobile communications devices. A configuration file database can also be operative with the device information module and store configuration files used for configuring the proxy based on functional features of the wireless mobile communications device. The device information module is also operative for determining the brand of the wireless mobile communications device.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the knowledge database stores data relating to functional features of different wireless mobile communications devices used for determining configuration files to be selected by the device information module. The database can include records for device types and brands of different communications devices. The database can also include data to be used for selecting a default configuration for unknown devices.

A method aspect of the present invention is also set forth for communicating with a wireless mobile communications device. The method comprises the steps of receiving communications from a wireless mobile communications device determining functional features of the wireless mobile communications device and configuring a communications interface with the wireless mobile communications device based on determined functional features to enable communications of any desired alerts to the device.

A computer readable medium for interfacing at least one wireless mobile communications device is also set forth and comprises a proxy module operative as an agent for communicating with a plurality of mobile wireless communications device using at least one different operating protocol. A device information module is operative with a proxy module for determining functional features of the device and selecting a configuration file for configuring the proxy module to interface with the wireless mobile communications device and enabling communications of any desired alerts.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

The present invention is advantageous and provides an interface device for a communications system that includes a front end proxy module for example as part of a protocol interface device of a mobile office platform. Proxies are coupled to a protocol engine module and operative as agents for communicating with a plurality of mobile wireless communications devices using different operating protocols. The protocol engine module communicates with data storage devices such as email providers or servers using respective operating protocols. A device information module for example as part of the protocol interface device is operative with the front end proxy module and determines functional features of a wireless mobile communications device and selects a configuration file for configuring the proxy interface with the wireless mobile communications device and enabling communications of any desired alerts.

The protocol interface device can be part of a server operative as an agent such as a mobile office platform having a mail agent and appropriate databases and processors. The present invention includes the databases and processing to determine the functional features or characteristics of wireless mobile communications devices using client strings and intervening proxies including client brand and gateway instead of only client strings. It is possible to look only at the client string and intervening proxies in the middle to determine the functional features necessary for use in the present invention.

There now follows a description of a protocol interface device having a front end proxy module protocol engine module and operative with data storage devices such as mail systems and clients as mobile wireless communications devices and the device information module of the present invention. There then follows a description of an example of a flow chart for the method of the present invention and an exemplary mobile wireless communications device that can be used in the present invention.

Turning now to a communications system of the present invention includes a protocol interface device for example of a mobile office platform that provides access to a plurality of data storage devices or systems which can be email servers or similar devices. The communications system illustratively includes a plurality of communications devices namely a mobile wireless communications device . Wired devices could be used with the present invention of course. By way of example various mobile wireless communications devices may be used in accordance with the invention such as personal data assistants PDAs cellular telephones etc. An exemplary mobile wireless communications device suitable for use with the present invention is described in the example provided below with reference to . Moreover examples of wired communications devices include personal computers telephones fax machines etc. Of course numerous wired and wireless devices may be used.

The communications device typically include software clients which are software modules or applications that operate on or in conjunction with their respective communications device to provide access to data stored at one or more of the data storage devices and through the protocol interface device . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such communications devices also include further components and or software modules which have not been explicitly shown in for clarity of illustration. With respect to the mobile wireless communications device its software client communicates with the protocol interface device via a wireless communication network and perhaps other networks as well e.g. a public switched telephone network PSTN or the Internet as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The various functions and operations of the protocol interface device are preferably implemented in software operating thereon or in conjunction therewith. The protocol interface device illustratively bridges the software clients of the communications devices and the data storage devices . Communications between the protocol interface device the communications devices and the data storage devices are preferably via a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. That is the communications devices may communicate with the protocol interface device via the Internet as noted above and so too may the protocol interface device communicate with the data storage devices .

Of course other implementations are also contemplated. For example the protocol interface device may be implemented in a private network that also includes the data storage devices the communications devices or both the data storage devices and the communications devices e.g. in a WAN . It should be noted that the present invention is in no way limited to any particular connection or communication scheme.

The data storage devices store data to be accessed by the software clients of the communications devices . Although some software clients are configurable to access directly certain types of data storage devices they are often data system specific or protocol specific as described briefly above. More particularly on constrained electronic devices such as the mobile wireless communications device processor power memory resources and communication channel characteristics may preclude the installation and operation of software clients having the same capabilities as those commonly used on desktop and laptop computer systems for example. In addition while the installation of multiple software clients for accessing data storage devices associated with different protocols is feasible for desktop and laptop computer systems providing multiple protocol support on such constrained devices may not be possible.

The data storage devices are accessible using different operating protocols or access schemes. As such the protocol interface device accesses the data storage devices via an operating protocol supported by respective data storage devices and provides data to the communications device via a respective client supported operating protocol. The protocol conversion functionality of the protocol interface device provides a unified approach to support access to multiple types of data system. As described in further detail below the protocol interface device provides an any to any bridge between different protocols or access schemes.

This protocol interface device bridges different types of communications devices with different types of data storage devices. In the illustrated embodiment data storage devices are systems servers for storing electronic mail e mail . However it should be noted that the present invention is not limited to mail system access. Each of the mail systems supports a different operating protocol or access scheme. More particularly the mail system supports Outlook Web Access OWA the mail system supports Microsoft Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI and the mail system supports a proprietary protocol such as that used by America Online AOL for example.

The protocol interface system illustratively includes a proxy as a front end proxy module . The front end proxy module illustratively includes other sub units or proxy modules which respectively support the Wireless Application Protocol WAP the Post Office Protocol POP the Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for communication with clients.

The front end proxy module also communicates with a protocol engine module . The protocol engine module translates OWA MAPI the proprietary protocol of the mail system and other protocols if desired into a format compatible with the front end proxy module . To this end a respective interface connector module could be coupled to a protocol engine module for each of the operating protocols used by the mail systems . In a preferred embodiment the front end proxy module and the protocol engine module are extensible or expandable to accommodate additional operating protocols as they become available as will also be discussed further below.

In operation a user accesses a mailbox on one of the mail systems through client software on his communications device. For example a WAP browser on a mobile wireless communication device communicates with the WAP proxy module to access the mail system . Access commands or instructions received by the WAP proxy are converted into a format compatible with the protocol engine module . Communications between the front end proxy module and the protocol engine module are preferably achieved via a common interface protocol which may be a proprietary protocol or an established public protocol.

The protocol engine module then translates the access commands or instructions received from the front end proxy module into a protocol associated with the mail system to be accessed e.g. OWA for the mail system . Data received from the mail system e.g. email messages a list of new messages calendar appointments tasks etc. depending on the particular mail system the features that its access protocol supports and the nature of the access command are translated into the common interface protocol and transferred to the front end proxy.

The active proxy module i.e. the WAP proxy module in the present example then formats the received data or at least portions thereof for the requesting client. Further commands from the client are also translated by the protocol interface device . Access commands from other types of clients are similarly processed. It should be noted that several mail systems may be accessed in response to a single access command where a user has enabled multiple mailbox access through the protocol interface device .

The protocol interface device thus allows clients using different operating protocols to access the mail systems which also use different operating protocols. Access commands such as move delete create send fetch and view for example that are generated at a client affect the data stored at the mail systems instead of copies of the data. Through the protocol interface device a client compatible with any one of the proxy modules is provided access to one or more of the mail systems . The client itself advantageously need not support the access protocol or scheme associated with the mail system s to be accessed.

Since the mail system protocol and the client protocol need not be compatible feature support between the protocols may be different. For example a POP client does not support the same features as OWA. The interface protocol used between the protocol engine module and the front end proxy module is preferably designed to be able to represent a desired number of protocol supported elements or features for a desired operating protocol. More specifically the common interface protocol is preferably able to represent all protocol supported elements for the most capable protocol OWA in the present example to provide the broadest possible feature support. Further still the common interface protocol may support a full feature set across all supported protocols if desired.

By way of example the common interface protocol may be a proprietary protocol based on the Web based Distributed Authoring and Versioning WebDAV protocol. It should be noted that the software clients need not initiate data access requests in all embodiments. For example in some embodiments the protocol interface device may include or communicate with a polling or aggregation engine module not shown that prompts the protocol engine module to aggregate messages for respective users from the mail systems at predetermined intervals as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. The protocol engine module would then cooperate with the front end proxy module to provide the aggregated messages to the respective software clients as described above. Additionally the front end proxy module need not communicate directly with the communications devices in all embodiments but it may instead communicate therewith via an intervening mail system or server for example. Thus in the case where an aggregation engine module is used the aggregated messages may be first transferred by the front end proxy module to an intervening mail server which in turn provides the messages to the appropriate communications device as will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Here again the front end proxy module would use the appropriate protocol s supported by such intervening mail server for communicating therewith.

The front end proxy module can include different proxy modules and a renderer module and an extensible style sheet language transformation XLT engine module together with a memory or template store and a flow controller module with handlers. The proxy module fronts the protocol engine module and translate respective operating protocols for different client types. For example a WAP proxy module can provide information retrieved from different handlers in the form of WML documents targeted for display on devices such as cell phones and PDA s. A POP proxy can make use of at least some of the same proxy components including a flow controller module and renderer module to render data in the form required by a POP protocol.

The same core services can be used to route traffic excess data and render data. Data access requests can be obtained from a client and passed to an appropriate proxy module using standard mechanisms for the client protocol. For a WAP client for example parameters are passed via a query string and or formed variable. The WAP proxy module can determine a component identifier which identifies a target item such as a mail folder and action identifier which identifies an action to be performed and any parameters based on data in the request. The case of WAP the component and action identifiers are passed in the query string or form. Other parameters in the query string form a package into a parameter list.

The protocol interface device of the present invention also includes a device information module operative with a device configuration file database . A knowledge database has data files relating to device type unknown device type for default configurations account information and a brand table database. The front end proxy module is operative with the knowledge database and of course as explained before is operative as an agent for communicating with the plurality of wireless mobile communications devices as noted before. The device information module is operative with the front end proxy module for determining functional features of a wireless mobile communications device and selecting a configuration file from the device configuration file database and configuring the front end proxy module to interface with the wireless mobile communications device and enable communications of any desired alerts that could be dependent upon the brand name of the wireless mobile communications device and WAP gateway.

In one aspect of the present invention the device information module is operative for determining functional features of the wireless mobile communications device by checking intermediate proxies and header information received from the wireless mobile communications device. This information could include client brand and gateway information. Different functional features can be enabled and these can be determined. The configuration file database is operative to be queried by the device information module and stores configuration files used for configuring the front end proxy module based on functional features of the wireless mobile communications device.

The database also includes data relating to the device type and brand and data for unknown devices. This data can be used for selecting a default configuration. Information can be stored regarding the wireless mobile communications device for future processing when further features of a device are obtained. Features can be obtained by reviewing intermediate proxies and header information received from the wireless mobile communications device.

As noted before the device information module determines device type and matches configuration files. Brand can play an important role in determining characteristics and functional features of any mobile wireless communications device and the client brand and gateway can be used. Brand can aid in determining what templates can be used for example for using IMAP hotmail and other templates. This can be used for the discovery of the device type for sending alerts. If an unrecognized device type is located then a default profile can be given. Information can be stored for later processing and as new features are set in the database it can give the right functionality and configuration file to allow the client interface to be established. The system can also determine if alerts are desired and allow a user to set up the specific types of alerts and capture a type of proxy. Other traffic can be accessed through a web browser. The knowledge database is maintained to give the best features to a device based on device type brand and other functional features.

The device information module loads a configuration file and has header names and files to match a correct configuration file. The device information module can then send the header information to a database for comparison with the brand type to obtain new features. It is possible of course to combine the database and configuration modules.

A given configuration file could be used for a group of wireless devices. The header from each client would identify the client. For example in the WAP world the WAP gateway would be involved to determine what type of templates or alerts to send to a client. This needs to be persistent when a client is not on line. The WAP gateways could also be different for different manufacturers. For example some may not support WAP push off capability. It is possible to use a combination of headers to send data and it is possible to add characteristics on the fly including brand and persistent repositories. Sometimes the templates may not be in sync with the database and the default can be overridden at a client. It is also possible to discover a device whether alerts or generated or not.

It should be understood that the software and programming used for the present invention can vary and different applications can be used. The mobile office platform and its associated components as described can use web services technology and include different application services used by those skilled in the art. Web services could include a combination of programming and data which are available from a web server for web users or the use of other web connected programs as provided by an application service provider. Web services could use an extensible mark up language XML as a standard for formatting data to be communicated.

Any type of arrangement can be used to access the front end proxy module as part of a mobile office platform including a peer to peer arrangement a central server or other architecture and line or wireless communications. Also middleware could be used. Data formats could be standardized and data exchanged using the extensive mark up language XML which is a foundation for the web services description language WSDL . Different web servers could be used including the open source Apache or Microsoft s internet information server IIS . Other web services could include Novel s web server for users of its netware operating system or the IBM family of Lotus domino service for example for IMB s OS 390 and AS 400 customers. Naturally any web server should be able to download requests for file transfer protocol FTP files in a preferred embodiment.

The front end proxy module as part of the protocol interface device and mobile office platform can have various import agents that are designed to retrieve configuration data from email clients. The mobile office platform could include a Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI to retrieve any configuration data for a MAPI compliant email client. MAPI provides the application programming interface API to ensure system independence for messaging applications. A layer of functionality could be provided between applications at any underlying messaging systems and act as messaging middleware. MAPI compliant applications could communicate through a MAPI subsystem to MAPI service providers that perform requested actions for clients and pass data back through a MAPI system to a MAPI client. Any mailbox configuration data could reside in a configuration registry of the user system. In other example embodiments data could reside in email client specific configuration storage.

In any user system some mail clients can access source mailboxes that use the Post Office Protocol POP or Internet Mail Access Protocol IMAP . POP of course is the internet mail server protocol that provides incoming message storage. The more recent protocol is POP3. POP is operative with a Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . Any mail server could run both protocols if it is to receive store and forward messages. The SMTP protocol exchanges messages from one mail server to another and hands messages to the required POP server for an email mailbox. A POP server can receive a message and hold it until another POP server is available. The IMAP version 4 also uses the SMTP transport mechanism but it is a more flexible protocol because IMAP allows users to store mail on a mail server without downloading all new messages to a local machine. Internet mail service of course run SMTP and either POP or IMAP and receives incoming messages from any source without identity checking. Thus mail can be selectively downloaded and read message headers reviewed hierarchical message stores built an address book supported and documents linked authenticated and searched.

The mobile office platform could generate configuration data objects and format data objects using an extensible mark up language XML for submission to various XML compliant web services. The server and or web service could be a simple object access protocol SOAP compliant service.

XML of course as an extensive mark up language is a subset of the standard generalized mark up language SGML and would allow data to be stored and published on websites and be richer in presentation. Custom tags could be created to define the content of documents. Common information formats could be created and the format and data shared on the internet corporate internets and or other networks. The mark up symbols in XML could be unlimited and self defining. The channel definition format CDF could describe any channel and a specific CDF file can contain data that specifies an initial web page and how it can be updated.

SOAP allows one program running in one kind of operating system to communicate with the program in the same or another type of operating system by using HTTP and XML for information exchange. SOAP could specify how to encode an HTTP header in an XML file thus allowing one computer to call a program in another computer and pass data while also dictating how it can return a response. SOAP is advantageous to allow data to pass through firewall servers that screen out requests other than those for known applications to a designated port. SOAP is an XML based protocol that has at least three parts including a an envelope to define a framework for describing what is in a message b a set of encoding rules for expressing application defined data types and c a convention for representing remote procedure calls and responses.

The front end proxy module and other components of the protocol interface device and mobile office platform could include software that is implemented as an ActiveX control as a component object model COM and provide a framework for building software components that communicate with each other. ActiveX controls could be automatically downloaded and executed by a web browser. Distributed object applications could be built in active web pages and ActiveX controls could be downloaded to different browsers and clients. ActiveX controls could be held in a web browser as a container and distributed over an internet or corporate intranet. ActiveX controls could also manage and update web content and client systems and work closely with a user interface of a targeted operating system. Java applets or similar component objects could also be used instead of ActiveX controls. It should be understood for purposes of the present invention that an object model control could also be any type of dynamic link library DLL module that runs in a container as an application program using a component object model program interface.

An exemplary hand held mobile wireless communications device that can be used in the present invention is further described in the example below with reference to . The device includes a housing a keyboard and an output device . The output device shown is a display which is preferably a full graphic LCD. Other types of output devices may alternatively be utilized. A processing device is contained within the housing and is coupled between the keyboard and the display . The processing device controls the operation of the display as well as the overall operation of the mobile device in response to actuation of keys on the keyboard by the user.

The housing may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keyboard may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the processing device other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keyboard and the display along with other input output devices and as well as memory devices and various other device subsystems . The mobile device is preferably a two way RF communications device having voice and data communications capabilities. In addition the mobile device preferably has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the processing device is preferably stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the random access memory RAM . Communications signals received by the mobile device may also be stored in the RAM .

The processing device in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications A N on the device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations such as data and voice communications A and B may be installed on the device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application may be installed during manufacture. The PIM is preferably capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application is also preferably capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . Preferably the PIM data items are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communications subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem. The communications subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas and . In addition the communications subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of the communications subsystem is dependent upon the communications network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include a communications subsystem designed to operate with the Mobitex Data TAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communications networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communications networks such as AMPS TDMA CDMA PCS GSM etc. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device .

Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique personal identification number or PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore requires a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communications signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communications network by the antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communications functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the antenna .

In addition to processing communications signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communications signals in the receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communications mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communications subsystem and is input to the processing device . The received signal is then further processed by the processing device for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O device . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a thumb wheel or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communications network via the communications subsystem .

In a voice communications mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communications mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communications mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communications module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

