---

title: Managing searches on mobile devices
abstract: This disclosure pertains to solutions, including without limitation, systems, methods, and software programs, that provide the ability to quickly and efficiently search mobile devices for relevant information. An exemplary search server has the ability to communicate (either directly and/or via a host PC) with one or more mobile devices to transmit a search request. The mobile devices, in turn, have a search facility that is configured to perform a search of the contents of the device and return a set of results to the search server. These results then may be presented to a user, who can select one or more of the results. The selected search result(s) then may be downloaded from the device and presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07996487&OS=07996487&RS=07996487
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 07996487
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060823
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates in general search technology and in particular to performing searches of information stored on mobile devices.

As our world becomes ever increasingly connected the importance of data access is likewise ever increasing. Merely by way of example a current focus of the computer industry is in the field of enterprise search in which a single search facility e.g. a search server a distributed search service etc. can provide search capabilities across a variety of computers on an enterprise network. Merely by way of example Oracle Secure Enterprise Search 10g available from Oracle Corp. provides the ability to search and locate public private and shared content across a variety of enterprise data sources including without limitation intranet web servers databases files on users local disks and or file servers email message stores document management systems applications and portals.

However enterprise users have an increasing number of mobile computing options which provide the abilities for users to store data on mobile devices which traditionally have not had visibility to enterprise search services due in part to their transient nature. Merely by way of example many users have handheld email devices such as the Blackberry from Research in Motion Ltd. and other such devices on which they store important data including without limitation documents electronic mail messages portable databases and the like. Similarly many wireless phones such as CDMA phones GSM phones and the like have become capable of storing similar data. Personal digital assistants PDA are also capable of storing such data some PDAs are network connected e.g. support Internet protocol IP communications via cellular links 802.xx links and or the like while others are not i.e. require a connection such as Bluetooth serial or universal serial bus USB to a PC in order to exchange data . These devices collectively are described herein as mobile devices a term that should be interpreted to include any handheld device capable of storing data and communicating either directly or via a host PC with a network. 

One thing all of these mobile devices and others have in common is that they are likely to hold information that may be useful to the enterprise. Unfortunately however there currently exists no feasible solution for searching such devices for relevant data. One workaround for this problem is to synchronize the data on the mobile device with a networked computer such as a PC a file server or the like. This synchronized data then may be searched using an enterprise search service.

This workaround suffers several drawbacks. First it requires additional configuration of the device and therefore additional administrative overhead. Second it is difficult to ensure that the synchronized data is in fact synchronized and that the copies of the files etc. on the networked computer are as current as those on the mobile device. Third there is a significant likelihood that the synchronization will be incomplete meaning that there are files or other information on the mobile device that have not been copied to the networked computer. Finally many mobile devices including as one particular example wireless phones feature limited or no data synchronization capabilities meaning that such devices are essentially left out of the enterprise search net.

Hence it would be useful if there were some facility that provided the ability to search the mobile devices themselves for data matching an enterprise search query.

Embodiments of the invention offer solutions including without limitation systems methods and software programs that provide the ability to quickly and efficiently search mobile devices for relevant information. In an aspect of some embodiments a search server has the ability to communicate either directly and or via a host PC with one or more mobile devices to transmit a search request. The mobile devices in turn have a search facility that is configured to perform a search of the contents of the device and return a set of results to the search server. These results then may be presented to a user who can select one or more of the results. The selected search result s then may be downloaded from the device and presented to the user.

Merely by way of example one set of embodiments provides systems including without limitation systems for retrieving information from a mobile device. An exemplary system might comprise a computer system and a plurality of mobile devices. The computer system in an exemplary embodiment comprises a first communication interface a first processor in communication with the interface and a first set of instructions executable by the first processor.

This first set of instructions might comprise instructions to establish communications e.g. via the first communication interface with a set of mobile devices which includes a first mobile device. There are further instructions to receive a search query e.g. from a user from an application etc. . Based on the search query a search request is transmitted to the set of mobile devices. In some cases the computer system has further instructions to receive a set of search results from at least the first mobile device and or to provide the set of search results to a user.

In this exemplary embodiment the plurality of mobile devices comprises the set of mobile devices including the first mobile device. The first mobile device might comprise a second communication interface and or a second processor in communication therewith. The first mobile device might also comprise a set of instructions executable by the second processor. These instructions can include merely by way of example instructions to receive the search request from the computer system. The instructions can also include instructions to perform a search of information on the first mobile device to prepare the set of search results based on the search and or to transmit the set of search results for reception by the computer system.

Another exemplary system comprises a computer system comprising a communication interface a processor in communication with the communication interface and a set of instructions executable by the processor. The set of instructions includes merely by way of example instructions to establish e.g. via the communication interface communication between the computer system and a set of one or more mobile devices and or instructions to receive a search query. The search query might pertain to data stored on at least one of the mobile devices. Thus there are in some cases instructions to perform a search of information about the data stored on the at least one mobile device based on the search query and or instructions to provide a set of search results responsive to the search query.

Other embodiments provide methods including without limitation methods that can be performed by systems of the invention and or that are provided as computer software with instructions executable by a computer system. Merely by way of example an exemplary method of searching information on a mobile device might comprise establishing communication between a computer system and a plurality of mobile devices. In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving at the computer system a search query which pertains to data stored on at least one of the mobile devices and or performing a search of information about the data stored on the at least one mobile device based on the search query. A set of search results responsive to the search query may then be provided to a user.

Still other embodiments of the invention provide software programs including without limitation software programs that comprise instructions implementing methods of the invention and or software programs that may be used to configure systems of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide heretofore unknown search services for mobile devices. In an aspect of some embodiments a search service which might be an enterprise search application configured to provide searching across an enterprise receives a search query e.g. from a user an application etc. and use that search query to prepare a search request which is used to search a set of information about data on one or more mobile devices. In some cases this search is performed by transmitting a search query to the mobile device s . In other cases the search service might maintain a local cache of information about the data on various devices.

In an embodiment of the invention a set of search results is produced and optionally provided to the requesting user application etc. In a particular aspect the results are provided as a list of hyperlinks possibly with additional meta data about the file or other data referenced by each hyperlink. The user can select the hyperlink e.g. in a web browser or any other application supporting the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP for the desired file data and the search service then will obtain the file data and provide it to the user.

Beneficially embodiments of the invention provide the ability for users and or applications etc. to search the contents of mobile devices perhaps within the context of an enterprise search. This feature allows heretofore unavailable access to data ensuring that an enterprise search will not fail to find relevant files and or data simply because that information is stored in a mobile device rather than on a traditional server or connected PC.

One set of embodiments provides systems for performing searches of information on mobile devices. An exemplary system is illustrated by . The system comprises a search server and one or more mobile devices which are in communication at least intermittently with the server . The mobile devices can be any of a variety of mobile devices including wireless phones such as CDMA phones GSM phones etc. handheld email devices PDAs tablet PCs and laptops not shown to name but a few examples. As described in further detail below some of the mobile devices e.g. may be in direct e.g. IP communication with the server while other devices e.g. may be in communication via a host PC which provides connectivity between the mobile device and the server . It should be noted that while the PDA is illustrated as being connected with the server via a host PC and the wireless phone and the wireless email device are illustrated as having a direct connection this arrangement is exemplary in nature thus in some embodiments a PDA might have a direct connection with the server while a wireless phone and or wireless email device might be connected through a host PC . 

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the terms direct connection and direct communication as used herein are not intended to mean that the mobile devices are coupled directly to the server . Rather such devices will be in communication with the server through a variety of means such as a wireless phone network in the case of a wireless phone as well as other network apparatus such as routers firewalls etc. all of which can be conventionally implemented and need not be described in detail herein. Hence the terms direct connection and direct communication merely indicate that the mobile devices are capable of communicating with the server typically but not necessarily using IP without the need for an intermediating host PC . Hence such devices typically will provide some type of wired e.g. Ethernet etc. and or wireless e.g. 802.xx WiFi WiMax cellular etc. communication facility.

In contrast non network connected devices such as the exemplary PDA may not be capable of or in other situations may not be configured to support any network interface and or protocol that would allow direct communication with the server . Instead such devices e.g. might merely be capable of communicating or configured to communicate with a host PC using a local communication facility such as an infrared link a Bluetooth link a serial link and or a USB link.

Some devices may be configured to support connectivity with the server both directly as that term is used herein and through a host PC . In such cases embodiments of the invention can support either type of connectivity.

The search server might also include and or be in communication with a database and or some other data store which can be used as described in further detail below to store cached information about data on the mobile devices as well as cached search results which can include links or references to files and or data on the mobile devices as well in some cases as copies of the files and or data themselves . The server may also be in communication with one or more clients . Specifically the server in some cases receives search queries from the client s and or provides search results including both lists of files data matching the search criteria and or the files data themselves to the client s .

The server component of the search application includes an interface for communicating with a client application on the client . In some cases the interface might comprise a web server in which case the client application is likely to be a web browser . In other cases the search application might be a client server application in which case the client application might be a dedicated application for interfacing with the search application . Merely by way of example the search application might be an enterprise search service that operates in conjunction with a database server application and the client application might be a database client. Other configurations are possible as well. Merely by way of example in some cases search services might be provided by an email server in which case the search application might be a component of or plug in for a mail server and the client application might be a mail client. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of configurations are possible within the scope of the invention. The interface then is configured to accept search requests and or provide search results to the client application .

In some cases the search application includes an access control module which can be used to authenticate a user of the client application and or the client application itself for example if the client application is an automated process and or determine whether the user has sufficient access rights i.e. is authorized to perform the requested search and or provide any necessary targeted connection metadata merely by way of example ODBC connection strings . The search application also features a communication module that is configured to communicate perhaps using facilities such as a communication interface and or network stack provided by the hardware and or operating system of the server computer .

The mobile component of the search application also includes a communication module which is configured to communicate again perhaps using communication facilities such as a communication interface and or network stack provided by the hardware and or operating system of the mobile device and or a host PC with which the mobile device is connected with the communication module on the server . The mobile component also includes a search engine that is configured to search the contents of the mobile device.

In a specific embodiment either the server component and or the mobile component of the search application can be supplied by a distributed database application such as the Oracle Database Lite product available from Oracle Corp. Such a distributed database product or for that matter a search application of any nature might provide a variety of services including for example a wake on ring service wherein the mobile device and or software installed thereon such as a search application and or a database application is activated upon receiving an alert signal using any of a variety of transports as described in more detail below . Furthermore a distributed database application might be configured to provide the searching of device contents the communication between the server and the device and or targeted metadata connection info for example cached ODBC connection strings .

A variety of search facilities and or strategies such as keyword searches natural language searches etc are known and any of them may be implemented in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. In an embodiment the invention can be implemented for example as a option within an existing enterprise search application. Merely by way of example within an interface for an enterprise search application the user might be given an option via a checkbox etc. to include mobile devices in an enterprise search. Alternatively and or additionally embodiments of the invention can be used to search only mobile devices exclusive of other enterprise data sources.

In some embodiments the user or any other entity performing the searching such as an application process etc. can be presented with a number of options to refine the search. Merely by way of example the user can be given the option to specify perhaps by selecting from a list which mobile devices and or groups of devices to search. For instance the system might maintain some metadata about devices such as the owner of the device the location and or department in which the owner works database connection strings etc. and this information can be presented to the user to allow the user to define the search universe.

At block the system optionally verifies that the user or other entity has sufficient access rights to perform the search and or to receive the results of the search . This procedure can be performed at any appropriate point. Merely by way of example in some cases the entity will be required to log into the search application before being presented with the search query interface. In other embodiments the user might be allowed to submit the search query and perhaps depending on the search terms and or the definition of the search universe might be required at that point to provide authorization credentials. In still other embodiments authorization might be required after the search results have been received by the server perhaps based on the nature of the search results e.g. as indicated by the metadata associated with one or more of the search results.

A variety of mechanisms can be used verify the user s access rights. Merely by way of example the search application might include an authentication system in which the user or other entity provides credentials such as userid password etc. which are evaluated to authenticate the user and or an access control list which can be evaluated to determine an authenticated user s access rights. In other embodiments as noted above the search application might rely on an external authentication authorization facility which might be provided by the server s operating system a web based logon system and or the like. Many such facilities are known in the art and embodiments of the invention can rely on such facilities as appropriate.

At block the search server establishes communications with the mobile device s to be searched. As noted below the search server and the mobile device generally will both comprise a communication interface and those interfaces can be used to establish communications between the search server and the mobile device. Also as noted below the type of communication between the server and the mobile device generally will depend on the capabilities of the mobile device and various embodiments of the invention can support a variety of different communication types. Merely by way of example if the mobile device is a wireless phone establishing communication might comprise transmitting a short messaging service SMS message to the wireless phone. In other embodiments the server might establish IP communications with the mobile device. In particular embodiments for example the communications between the server and the mobile device might comprise a series of HTTP messages. As noted above in some cases the communication between the server and the mobile device might comprise a communication path via a host computer such as a host PC in communication with the mobile device. discussed below illustrates in further detail an exemplary communication process between a server and a mobile device.

In some cases the server optionally will cache information about data on one or more of the mobile devices block . Merely by way of example the server might store in a database for example information about the files and or other data including for example metadata about the files data. This database or other data store might reside on a data storage device such as a hard disk disk array etc. on the server and or in communication with the server. In other words the data storage device holding the database data store might be remote from the mobile devices themselves. In a set of embodiments the server will obtain current information about the contents of mobile devices e.g. by periodically polling mobile devices and or by receiving notifications from mobile devices when their contents have changes and use it to update the cached information. In some embodiments the information about the data might include copies or replicas of the files and or data themselves although this possibly can increase communication and storage overhead beyond acceptable thresholds.

At block the server generates a search request based on the search query. Generating the search request typically will comprise parsing the search query determining the devices to which the search query applies and preparing a search request that will be used to perform the search. As noted below in many cases performing the search comprises transmitting search requests to one or more mobile devices. In some cases generating the search request might comprise preparing one or more search messages in a format compatible with the devices to be searched. In some cases a single search request might be suitable for multiple devices and accordingly might be capable of being broadcast to the devices . In other cases each of the devices to be searched might require a request message in a different format. Merely by way of example a search request transmitted to a phone via SMS might have different format than a request transmitted to a PDA via a host PC etc.

At block the server performs the search. In some cases for example implementations in which the information about device contents is cached the search might be run against this cached information. In other cases however performing the search comprises transmitting a search request to each mobile device to be searched. described below provides a detailed of this process in accordance with a set of embodiments. In such cases performing the search might also comprise receiving a set of search results from each of the devices to which the search request was transmitted and optionally compiling the search results from a plurality of devices in to a composite set of search results.

Embodiments of the invention can search for a variety of different data. Merely by way of example documents and or files on mobile devices can be searched. In addition email messages and in particular local email messages database records and other types of data can be searched as well. Methods of searching such disparate types of data are well known in the art and any of a variety of such methods can be used to search device contents in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

These search results are then provided block generally to the entity from whom the search request was received by the server. In a set of embodiments the search results might be provided via a web page and or via an interface provided by a dedicated client application in the case of a user requesting the search and or via an API in the case of an application or other process requesting the search. A more detailed description of a process for providing the search results is discussed with respect to below.

The method comprises transmitting an alert signal block usually but not always from the search server for reception by one or more mobile devices. The transport mechanism for sending the alert often will vary depending on the nature of the mobile device. Merely by way of example as noted above if the mobile device is a wireless phone the alert signal might be transmitted as an SMS message. In other embodiments for wireless phones as well as other mobile devices the alert signal might be an IP communication for example a set of one or more IP packets directed to a particular IP port at the mobile device. In cases in which a search is directed to a plurality of mobile devices different types of alert signals might be sent to the various mobile devices in accordance with their capabilities.

In some cases the device might be configured with wake on ring or similarly wake on LAN functionality in which the alert message serves to activate the device. Hence upon receiving the alert signal block the search application on the device and or another application operating in conjunction with the search application will activate the device block .

In a particular set of embodiments the device is configured to sent a prompt message block to the server to inform the server that the device is ready to receive the search request. In some cases the prompt message is an HTTP request message directed to the server. In other words the mobile device might be configured to establish an HTTP session with the server and more specifically a web server application running on the server . In an aspect this web server application is incorporated within and or operates in conjunction with the server component of the search application.

At block the server transmits the search request. As noted above any of a variety of communication transports can be used to transmit the search request. In some cases the search request is transmitted directly to the mobile device while in other cases the search request is transmitted via a host PC. In some embodiments the search request is transmitted responsive to the prompt message received from the mobile device. Merely by way of example in some embodiments as noted above the prompt message is formatted as an HTTP request. In such embodiments the search request might be formatted as an HTTP response that is responsive to the prompt messages. In other embodiments however the server might not be configured to send an alert signal or receive a prompt message e.g. blocks might be omitted . In such embodiments the search request might be the initial communication at least within the context of the present search between the search server and the mobile device.

Upon receiving the search request block the mobile component of the search application performs a search of the device contents using the search terms in the search request as criteria for the search. As noted above a variety of search engine technologies are known in the art and any appropriate technology can be used to perform the search of the device contents which can include files database records email messages and or other data depending on the embodiment.

As noted above in some embodiments the system will store a variety of metadata about mobile devices data sources on a particular mobile device and or the like. This metadata can include a variety of information. Merely by way of example the search server might maintain metadata about various data sources on each device such as different databases that can be searched etc. as well in some cases as cached connection information such as login credentials etc. . In another embodiment however the connection cache might be maintained within the search application at the mobile device such that the server need only send the search request and optionally the desired data source s to the mobile device and the search application would handle the connection to the data source based perhaps on cached connection strings. To illustrate consider a mobile device that has one or more databases in different formats. The mobile component of the search application might register each of the mobile databases as well as other data sources such as a file system local email store etc. . This registration likely would include authentication credentials as necessary for each data source as well as connection methods such as ODBC JDBC and or any other standard or proprietary connection method when applicable. The mobile component of the search application upon receiving a search request would establish a connection with each desired data source and then perform the search using the appropriate connection and or search tools which might be SQL statements keyword searches and or the like .

In an embodiment of the invention the search application and specifically either the mobile component and or the server component depending on the implementation is configured to translate between various search methodologies. Merely by way of example the user interface for the search application might accept keyword searches since that is a search method familiar to most users. However various data sources might not support keyword searches but might instead require for example SQL queries. In an embodiment as noted above the mobile component of the search application having registered a data source then might be configured to transform the keyword search into a SQL query if that is the search methodology supported by the data source. In this way for example a single search request from the server might be transformed into several different search methodologies for various data sources on one or more mobile devices. It should be noted that this transformation might also be performed at the server level such that multiple search requests are transmitted based on a single search query submitted by the user. It should also be noted that the inverse of this example is possible as well In a case in which the search server is part of a database application and or is configured to receive queries via an API from a database application it might be designed to receive for example SQL queries and the search application either at the server and or on the mobile device might be configured to transform this query into a keyword search or any other applicable search methodology .

After performing the search the mobile component of the search application prepares a set of search results comprising files and or other data that meet the search criteria block . In a set of embodiments the search results might be formatted as an HTML document or other appropriate format comprising a link corresponding to each file and or data meeting the search criteria. In addition metadata about each search result might be included in the set of results. The search results are then transmitted to the server block .

Upon receiving the set of search results block the server might provide the set of results to the requesting entity for example as detailed above. In some embodiments the search results might be provided to the requesting entity in the form provided by the mobile device. In other embodiments the server might be configured to reformat the search results for presentation to the requesting entity.

As already described a set of information about each of the search results might be provided. Merely by way of example the set of search results might comprise a list of files stored on one or more mobile device s as well in some cases a set of information i.e. metadata about each of the files. Such metadata can include merely by way of example a creation date of the file a size of the file a location of the file a device identifier corresponding to a mobile device on which the file is located an owner of a mobile device on which the file is located data type e.g. file database result email message etc. and or a date of last access of the file.

At block the server receives from the user a selection of a particular search result which might correspond to a particular file and or set of data stored on a mobile device. In a particular embodiment the user might select a link from the list of search results. The selection of this link might result in a web browser request e.g. an HTTP GET request from the user s browser relating to the file. In response the server obtains the file data corresponding to the selection block .

At block the server obtains the file data corresponding to the selection. In many cases the server will communicate with the mobile device to obtain the file for example by issuing an HTTP request to the mobile device. In other cases for example if the file data has been cached at the server either during a pre caching operation as described above or in response to another request for the file data the file data might be obtained from a data store remote from the mobile device.

At block the file data is provided to the user. In a set of embodiments the server provides the file data to the user after it has been obtained e.g. from the mobile device and or from cached storage . Merely by way of example the server might transmit the file data for reception by the web browser e.g. as a binary object in a conventional manner in response to the user selecting the link corresponding to the file data. In another set of embodiments the file might be provided by providing the user with a link e.g. the link in the set of results that directly links to the file on the mobile device. Hence in such embodiments the links provided in the set of results might actually be references to the file data located on the mobile device.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like.

The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device and or the like a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. . The communications system include a communication interface that permits communication with other devices in accordance with embodiments of the invention. In particular the communication interface may permit data to be exchanged with other devices either via an immediate connection such as a serial USB Bluetooth and or infrared connection and or via with a network such as the network described below . The communication interface can include any necessary communication hardware and or software such as network software device drivers etc. necessary to provide inter device communication. The nature of this hardware and or software often will vary according to the implementation of the invention. Merely by way of example with respect to some mobile devices the communication interface might include a wireless radio such as a CDMA radio a GSM radio and 802.11 xx radio etc. . Other communication hardware such as communication ports e.g. Ethernet ports serial ports and or cables might be provided various devices depending on the type of communications implemented in the embodiments. Based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art will appreciated that the invention can accommodate any of a variety of available communication interfaces and that the choice of such interfaces are discretionary.

In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above. The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention as described herein. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

As noted above a set of embodiments comprises systems for searching mobile devices illustrates a schematic diagram of a networked system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications such as database client applications search client applications web browser applications and or the like which can be used in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with two user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

The user computers can be used for a variety of purposes in different embodiments of the invention. Merely by way of example a first user computer might be used as a search client e.g. to transmit search queries and or receive search results as described in further detail above. Another user computer which might in fact be the same user computer might serve as a host PC and accordingly would be used to provide connectivity between a search server and a non networked mobile device as described above. Accordingly the user computer might include software such as synchronization software etc. that provides communication with the mobile device as well as software that acts as an intermediary between the mobile device and the search server .

Certain embodiments of the invention operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

In a set of embodiments the network can provide direct communications between the mobile device and the server s such that the device would not need to interface with a host PC to communicate with the server s . Accordingly the network might include any necessary network components to provide such communication. Merely by way of example if the mobile device is a wireless phone the network might comprise a wireless phone network and or components thereof such as base station controllers mobile switching centers and or the like . In other embodiments the network might include the necessary hardware to support other wireless communications such as 802.11xx radios and or the like .

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers one or more of which might function as the search server described with respect to . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers . Merely by way of example a server might be running a search application as described in further detail above.

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one ore more file and or application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention such as by providing a search query interface and or a web page displaying search results. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML JavaScript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

