---

title: System and method for routing workflow items based on workflow templates in a call center
abstract: The present invention facilitates the creation and implementation of Workflow Templates and also the designation of linkage between these templates and specific projects dealing with different media type handling. Workflow Templates are used to automatically generate user interface views which will be used by agents, knowledge workers, supervisors and customers. Such Workflow Templates provide the means to create, define and store the name and definition of and “trigger points” for each workflow item. The trigger points for when a document is used are also determined when creating the template. Further, in creating a Workflow Templates the administrator can instruct the system to save scripts associated with the template that can be saved as XML, EDI, JSP, CGI, VXML, etc. so as to be able to automatically generate documents or logic flows consistent with the target media type for the anticipated interactions with customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583466&OS=08583466&RS=08583466
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08583466
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060321
---
The present patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 706 561 filed Aug. 9 2005 and entitled Universal Workflow Based Routing the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. The present patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 376 486 filed Mar. 15 2006 and entitled Dynamic Customer Satisfaction Routing the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to customer service systems and call centers and more particularly to a customer service and enterprise workflow management method and system that enables among other things handling and routing workflow items on a manual semi automated or fully automated basis.

Workflow items take many forms but are generally divided into two categories. First there is the category of Time Varying Media TVM which includes phone calls e mails internet based chats voice messages and other real time and non real time media interactions. TVM are workflow items to the extent that they often act as a trigger or entry point for subsequent work. Second there is another broad category of workflow items dealing with the flow of documents or electronic transactions representing non TVM tasks. These non TVM items are often called Workflow Documents or Workflow Transactions. For example these tasks are often associated with activities such as filling out a medical claims form a loan application or a trouble ticket.

TVM and Workflow Documents are often managed differently and with a disparate array of hardware and software. For example TVM based interactions are generally facilitated with the aid of telecommunications systems such as a Private Branch Exchange PBX or an Automatic Call Distributor ACD which route telephone calls from a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or the Internet e.g. Voice Over IP . In the case of phone calls these are switched to customer service representatives agents and afforded some value added intelligence in routing based on pre determined routing rules based on the caller s phone number and the number dialed. The number callers are calling from is referred to as an Automatic Number Identification ANI and the number they are calling is a Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS . In general these numbers can be extracted from the phone line in order to make a determination of how the call should be routed based on database look ups wherein customer information is matched with ANI and DNIS to aid in the disposition of the call. Further to these routing decisions are data dealing with the skills that are possessed by the agents. By matching the skills of an agent coincident with the telephone calls that are coming in to a PBX or ACD customer service can be enhanced by routing callers to the best suited or best skilled agent. This is in addition to the default treatment of routing calls simply based on the availability of agents. This skills orientation is referred to as skills based routing.

Dealing with TVM based interactions also goes beyond the switching of telephone calls. In addition to telephone calls the same routing disciplines may be applied to emails sent by customers. The same can also applied to Web Based Telephone CallBack requests and Web initiated Chat sessions. In fact these communications represented by a plurality of media types can be handled with what s commonly referred to as a multi channel or multi media ACD and is described in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 798 226 entitled Call Center Administrator Manager the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Likewise there are commercial systems available for handling non TVM workflow items such as Electronic Data Interchange EDI based forms eXtensible Markup Language XML based documents proprietary trouble tickets order fulfillment forms and a plurality of standard and non standard order entry and supply chain oriented tasks and associated documents. For example the management of these documents and related tasks are offered as part of commonly available Customer Relationship Management CRM systems and Document Imaging systems and Web Content Management WCM systems and Learning Content Management LCM systems.

There are many ways the routing of documents can be automated or semi automated. As with PBXs and ACDs that handle TVM based interactions Workflow Document systems such as those represented by CRM and Document Management industries can be programmed to route documents and other work items to knowledge workers. These knowledge workers may or may not also be characterized as agents as the workers associated in answering TVM based interactions on a PBX or ACD.

While the means to route workflow items both TVM and Workflow Documents and tasks can be handled with disparate and dedicated platforms each suited to its particular task it is nonetheless difficult to make the life length of a series of workflow tasks a seamless interaction. The seamlessness and cohesive flow of work items and tasks in any organization is a mark of efficiency. Such efficiency is associated with getting tasks performed easily and quickly. The ease with which these tasks can be completed equates to significant financial benefits for the enterprise. These financial benefits are realized as a result of getting each knowledge worker to produce more work or eliminating the need for more knowledge workers.

Take for example the workflow associated with handling a customer request for a loan and further approving that loan and ultimately delivering the item to the customer which was the original motivation for acquiring the loan. The request for the loan may be triggered as a result of a phone call from the customer likewise that request may be triggered by e mail chat etc. . Certain information may be gathered from the customer as a result of that interaction. The content of that interaction may include customer information such as the name address household earnings and other items required to start a loan approval procedure.

After the initial call trigger event has completed it is a common practice for the agent to do a wrap up procedure. For example as a wrap up procedure the agent who dealt with the phone call may access a separate application not associated with the PBX or the ACD in which a form or other document is presented to the agent. The presentation of that form or document is typically managed by a separate application driven by a CRM or Document Management system. That form may be partially filled out based on the data collected by the agent for further disposition by a supervisor or some other knowledge worker who does not necessarily take phone calls.

Subsequent to the originating call and wrap up workflow other work items may be spawned as a result. For example the original document may be routed to a subsequent knowledge worker or supervisor. For example a credit check with a credit reporting agency may have to occur. This may be triggered automatically based on custom software in a CRM application or this may be accomplished semi automatically with the intervention of another knowledge worker. Often customized routing algorithms will determine the logic flow or passing of the document from one person to another. Software which is entirely separate from the PBX or ACD software may be used to define the skills and or availability of workers to handle these work items.

Further still a supervisor may be consulted with or may need to touch a document or electronic form in order to authorize the final disposition of the loan. The workflow may continue in the form of sending a fax or letter or email to inform the customer that she has been denied the loan. Or a phone call may ensue to alert the customer of that disposition. On the other hand the workflow may continue in the form of an acceptance whereupon subsequent documents and work items are handled to order and ship the item to the customer if his or her loan is approved.

In this simple scenario a complex workflow has been described. There may also be similar scenarios in which dozens of steps ensue and also involve four or five knowledge workers. However the skills required or the priority of the customer or the preferences of the customer or the availability of the knowledge workers or the work item preferences of the knowledge workers are not universally known let alone universally considered in the hand off off these work items from system to system. Such is the state of integration between TVM based systems and non TVM based systems for managing workflow.

It is clear that there are some common elements in the handling of items associated with TVM and Document related Workflows. The table below shows the relationships between these items from a workflow management perspective.

This is by no means a comprehensive list but is shown to accentuate the similarities in complexity and requirements between handling phone calls emails chats etc. TVM versus Document related work items. One way of looking at the difference between these two worlds is that TVM are typically customer facing and document related or internal transaction related work items are often not customer facing and more related to fulfillment activities or sometimes back office activities. This is not to say that forms and electronic documents are not often used by customers. What s important to consider is that despite the similarities in the need to track workforce skills customer data and the routing of interactions and work items completely disparate systems have been developed to support these activities. Attempts are routinely made to integrate these disparate systems but the architectures and approaches to managing a phone call let s say versus routing a medical claims form inside of a healthcare insurance company are completely separate.

This separation between the handling of TVM vs. non TVM is costly and requires custom one off development to link these disparate systems together. An unfortunate outcome of the need to develop custom software to integrate these disparate systems together is an inherently inefficient flow of work. For example many more data dips are often required. Multiple routing engines and software are often required for each workflow item. The negative impact beyond the cost to acquire program and maintain disparate systems is a slower response time. These slower response times as previously mentioned are costly but slower response times may also have a negative impact on customer service.

For example slower response times may be manifest in having to ask the customer more than once to offer information that was not passed from one workflow process to another.

In addition slower response time may also be manifest in the inefficient routing of subsequent work items to knowledge workers who may not have the requisite skills to efficiently handle the work item. This is often exacerbated owing to the fact that different parts of the workflow are associated with different control systems that may or may not have a skills based reference point or may or may not have a means to share skills based data between reference points.

In addition slower response time may also be manifest in another workforce related issue dealing with the motivation of each knowledge worker to process the transactions that are linked to their sense of job satisfaction. The is a school of thought generally embraced by contact center managers for example that the motivation and satisfaction of contact center agents has a direct and positive correlation to their own sense of satisfaction in completing certain tasks in favor of others. This has necessitated the likes of contests or bonus programs used to cajole the workforce into completing certain tasks in favor of others. For example a contact center supervisor may offer tickets to a show or a gift certificate to the agent who completes the most number of outbound calls in a certain time period. Much thought and work is put in to creating promoting and administering such a bonus programs. What is not intuitively obvious to practitioners with average skill in the art is that the development of workflow items and pools may be developed that allow workers to either automatically indicate work item preference or dynamically allocate work items based on criteria associated with individual or group preferences.

In addition slower response time may also be associated with a lack of cohesiveness on the priority of each customer and how that priority is dealt with across disparate systems and databases. For example a caller may receive priority in the handling of an ACD interaction. But it is not necessarily the case that the workflow items spawned from that original transaction will receive the same priority as the priority afforded to the caller in the first place. If all of the workflow items associated with post wrap up work go in to the same bin then the call treatment on the front end of the process is a moot point. In short unless the enterprise can provide a consistent tie in of priority to the entire life length of the associated workflow not only does slower response time have an impact but this may manifest itself in the overall dissatisfaction of the customer.

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies in the prior art by providing among other things 1 a universal construct for intelligent ACD like routing of all workflow items regardless of type 2 a universal construct for applying customer specific priorities to workflow items regardless of type 3 a universal construct for applying workforce associated skills and related attributes to the routing of workflow items regardless of type 4 a universal construct for applying customer satisfaction associated priorities to the routing of workflow items regardless of type 5 a universal construct for applying workforce initiated preferences both stored and dynamic to the routing of workflow items regardless of type 6 a universal construct for applying thresholds to the number and type of workflow items already in queue and to use those thresholds as a means to prioritize workflow items in queue 7 a universal construct for applying thresholds to the number and type of workflow items already being worked on by a specific agent or knowledge worker and to use those thresholds as a means to prioritize workflow items for that worker and 8 a universal construct for the application of any other attributes which may facilitate the intelligent routing and disposition of any workflow item regardless of type. The present invention also provides a service creation and administrative environment that allows for the management of the above processes.

In an embodiment of the invention a method for facilitating a workflow template comprises the steps of creating a workflow template associated with a workflow item wherein the workflow template defines one or more trigger points for the workflow item and linking the workflow template to a project. The one or more trigger points specifies an action to be taken with respect to the workflow item. The step of creating a workflow template may comprise the step of associating a Web page or VXML code to collect input from a party wherein the party is a call center supervisor call center customer or a call center agent. The project can be a phone IVR project Web callback project email project chat project or a combination thereof. The step of creating a workflow template may also comprise the step of defining one or more routing rules for the workflow item which may be based on preference as identified by a supervisor or an agent or knowledge worker. The workflow item may comprise a document. The step of linking can comprise the step of selecting an entry point and exit point to be applied to the workflow template and selecting a CGI JSP VXML XML EDI or HTML page script.

In another embodiment of the invention a method of workflow based routing comprises the steps of executing a workflow template associated with a workflow item and at least one trigger point and routing the workflow item in response to activation of the trigger point. The method may further comprise the step of generating a user interface in response to activation of the trigger point and or querying input from a party in response to activation of the trigger point. The trigger point may be a key performance indicator trigger or a trigger for supervisor intervention. The workflow template may be linked to a project dealing with both time varying media and non time varying media workflow template handling. The workflow template may be associated with a script selected from the group consisting of XML EDI JSP CGI VXML and a combination thereof. The trigger point may also comprise one or more skill oriented triggers. The step of routing the workflow item may be dependent on an individual work item preferences and may be performed automatically based on an individual work item preference as defined by a supervisor or dependent on the individual work item preference of a specific agent or knowledge worker. The preferences may be arranged and presented to a workforce as a pick list allowing for selection of preferred work items.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a workflow document rendering method comprises the steps of storing a workflow template and storing database pointer information to render the workflow template. The method may further comprise the step of associating one or more media types with the workflow template.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a system comprises a multi media automatic call distributor for facilitating an interaction and a server for routing a document associated with the interaction.

In an embodiment of the invention one or more Workflow Templates and corresponding workflow attributes and trigger points are created. Such Workflow Templates are used to link to a customer priority or event driven weighting mechanism for each workflow item or link to key performance indicator KPI specific triggers. These Workflow Templates are used to generate user interface views which will be used by agents knowledge workers supervisors and customers.

One advantage of the present invention is that it provides a universal construct for the intelligent routing of workflow items thereby improving efficiency and decreasing costs.

Another advantage of the present invention is that it provides a method for defining and establishing a customer prioritization associated with a workflow item during the life length of workflow item thereby improving aspects of overall customer satisfaction.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is that it facilitates various media types TVM and non TVM thereby providing a single platform for handling a multitude of incoming workflow items resulting in improved workflow efficiency and response time.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular description of the embodiments of the invention the accompanying drawings and the claims.

Embodiments of the present invention and their advantages may be understood by referring to and are described in the context of a robust workflow routing environment. Nonetheless the improvements described herein are applicable to any type of environment where there is a need to facilitate routing workflow items both TVM and Workflow Documents .

In order to better understand the present invention the network is described as comprising three separate zones which together facilitate a workflow environment. These zones may be divided in a variety of ways and the exemplary embodiment shown in no way limits one of ordinary skill in the art from implementing the invention in another configuration. The three zones are referred to as an Internet User Zone a Web DMZ Zone and a Network Zone . It is important to note that these zones may be divided in a variety of ways and the illustrative embodiment in no way limits one of ordinary skill in the art from implementing the invention in another configuration.

The Internet User Zone comprises multiple interfaces A E for call center agents supervisors and other authorized parties to access the network and use telephone instruments and via a PSTN or an Internet Protocol IP network and or computers not shown to access database driven information associated with customers e.g. caller information history. It is not a prerequisite that agents have access to caller information history for the invention to be useful but it is helpful for agents to have access to such. The Internet User Zone also implements access software for administrators to create Workflow Templates and Trusted Application linkages which will provide the routing instructions triggers and other rules for the subsequent routing of workflow items as noted below. The Internet User Zone further implements access software that allows Supervisors to provide monitoring and coaching of both contact center agents and knowledge workers. Supervisors can also score agent and knowledge worker transactions and other workflow items in real time. Supervisors can also score agent and knowledge worker transactions and other workflow items off line using templates that were created by the aforementioned administrator as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 376 486 filed Mar. 15 2006 and entitled Dynamic Customer Satisfaction Routing. The Internet User Zone further comprises telephone instruments and computers not shown and or other access terminals not shown wherein customers are able to access the network in order to interact and or self navigate through information stores e.g. websites and questionnaires i.e. surveys and also be able to interact with agents knowledge workers and supervisors. Such interactions include but are not limited to telephone calls including VoIP calls Web initiated chats email and web callbacks. Users may also interact in other ways associated with workflows that would be subsequently handled by the enterprise. This may include for example the filling out of electronic forms or other documents which would then be routed by an ACD application that is part of the network. Telephone calls can be sent to other parts of the network over for example a PSTN a cellular network not shown a computer network such as an IP network the Internet or a private computer network the implementation of or connection to which are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Computer based interactions may be facilitated via protocols such as but not limited to HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP Secure HyperText Transport Protocol HTTPs as well as Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 and Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP for email communications the implementation of which are also apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

Exemplary interfaces A E include an Interaction Manager A a Supervision Manager B and an Administration Manager C. The Interaction Manager A the Supervisor Manager B and the Administration Manager C provide interfaces for the agent a supervisor or the like and an administrator respectively to interact with the network . In one embodiment of the invention the interfaces A C are browser based applications. Interfaces D and E are further included to facilitate communication with respective database servers and user callers opting to contact the call center via email web chat VoIP web page forms or other communication techniques facilitated through the IP network .

In an embodiment of the invention the Web DMZ Zone comprises any combination of Web Servers Domain Name Servers and Email Servers and other components to provide secure access and transport services for computer based interactions such as Web initiated chat requests Web initiated Call back requests between customers and agents between customers and supervisors and between supervisors and agents. The Web DMZ Zone also provides a transport layer for administration agent and supervisor screens such that agents supervisors and administrators have secure access to databases containing customer information contact center configuration routing rules key performance indicator KPI templates and real time information for the handling of interactions real time and non real time interactions . In at least one embodiment of the invention the Web Servers interact with a customer s computer an agent s computer a supervisor s computer an administrator s computer or a combination thereof and associated software over HTTP or HTTPs as particularly shown in which is described below. The Web Servers may optionally store and transfer messages that are passed to and from the Network Zone where the messaging between those elements is implemented by Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . Therefore the Web Servers in the Web DMZ Zone also act as translators between HTTP or HTTPS and TCP IP. This translation capability is in place to provide easy and universal access to the interfaces A E or other thin client applications in use by the agents supervisors administrators and or customers.

In an embodiment of the invention the Network Zone comprises one or more application servers one or more workflow document servers one or more database servers one or more file servers and one or more telephony servers . These software based servers are located in host computers connected to a TCP IP bus which is in turn connected to the email servers and web servers in the Web DMZ zone .

Application servers implement software that controls the flow of phone calls e mails chats and web call back requests between customers and agents and supervisors. The workflow document servers act as specialized file servers and store information including but not limited to Workflow Templates and media files associated with Workflow Templates. In addition the workflow document servers may contain database pointer information so information stored in the database servers can be used to render Workflow Templates and other user facing data associated with Workflow Templates. The database servers store information such as but not limited to Workflow Template data customer records interaction history application parameters agent location data agent skill data and information which links key performance indicators KPIs and customer satisfaction data to the treatment and priority of customer interactions. The file servers in the network zone are used to store media such as agent recordings KPI templates scripts voice messages chat transcripts and e mail transcripts. The telephony servers the implementation of which is apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art offer control over the physical switching of phone calls whether they are soft switch phone calls used with Voice over IP gateways or PSTN switched phone calls over switching cards housed in personal computers PCs . For example a telephony server may facilitate Internet telephony implementing a signaling protocol such as a Session Initiated Protocol SIP to establish for example an audio videoconferencing session over the IP network . Alternatively sessions facilitated by a telephony server may implement H.323 which is a standard approved by the International Telecommunication Union ITU that defines how audiovisual conferencing data is transmitted across networks. H.323 enables users to participate in the same conference even though they are using different videoconferencing applications.

Although not the primary focus of the invention each application in is briefly described to better understand it role in the overall network . Particularly the host manager provides a mechanism for file transfer protocol FTP to other application servers and as a proxy to a network manager and manages communications with client machines e.g. of the customers and or agents and supervisors interacting with the server . For example the host manager manages FTP sessions with the server . The license server facilitates registration of the client machines and governs legal use of licenses. The simple network management protocol SNMP agent manages SNMP compliant devices within the network by sending messages called protocol data units PDUs to the SNMP compliant devices which store data about themselves and return this data to the SNMP requesters. The statistics server transmits statistics interaction histories to and from the databases . The TCP IP bus facilitates the transmission of data over a TCP IP network. The scheduling server schedules certain events such as but not limited to call menus for after business hours. The IM server is an application that acts as a bridge between the Network zone and the client applications. The automatic call distributor ACD server stores agent skill information. In an embodiment of the invention the handling instructions are based on one or more key performance templates as described below. The chat server facilitates chat sessions with customers over for example the Internet. The email distribution server facilitates and manages email communications among customers agents and supervisors. The predictive server manages and assists automatic outbound call dialing for agents and or supervisors.

The database server further includes a Work Flow Trigger table a Workforce Preference table a Course Structure Format table a Work Flow Template table a Trusted Application Reference table a Web Control Management table a Quality Monitoring Scoring table a Key Performance Indicator table a Customer Satisfaction Input table a Supervisory Input table a Customer Satisfaction Routing table a User table a User Login table a Predictive Login table a User Status Duration table a Quality Control table an Interaction table a History Action table a Client History table a History Routing Transfer table a History Automatic Template table a History Predictive Result table a History Routing Workgroup tables a History Routing Project table and a History Outcomes table the implementation of all of which are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such a configuration of tables is exemplary only and does not preclude any other configuration based on for example any subset of these components.

In general tables store three different types of data 1 information about the workforce for example agent skills and profiles designated workgroups and identification of supervisors 2 business rules for example routing of customer inquiries and timing of events and 3 historical information.

The file server further comprises storage for different types of media. Particularly the file server comprises a quality monitoring recording storage an ACD chat transaction storage an ACD email transaction storage an IVR prompt storage an ACD voice mail storage an ACD fax message storage a transaction recordings storage other media storage an SMS transcript storage an EDI template storage a CSF XML document storage and a template storage .

Each server and network in are further comprised of additional resources. For example resources that make up the softswitch server are comprised of the VOIP network interface the conferencing resource the matrix switching resource and the media processing resource . Subsequently available resources for the circuit switch include the PSTN network interface the conferencing resource the matrix switching resource the media processing resource and the VOIP conversion . Finally resources available for the public switched telephone network include the local central dial office the long distance access tandem the private branch exchange PBX the automatic call distributor ACD the intelligent programmable switching device and the VOIP gateway . Such resource configuration is exemplary only and does not preclude any other configuration based on for example any subset of these resources.

As previously noted the present invention facilitates the creation of Workflow Templates in a database and also the designation of linkage between these templates and specific projects dealing with different media type handling. Workflow Templates are used to automatically generate user interface views which will be used by agents knowledge workers supervisors and customers. Likewise Workflow Templates may trigger views associated with Trusted Applications. These trusted applications may be supplied by 3parties who use an API Application Programming Interface such as the Web Services API supplied by Telephony Work so electronic forms and other documents supplied by a third party can populate an agent knowledge worker supervisor or customers computer screen. Such Workflow Templates provide the means to create define and store the name and definition of and trigger points for each workflow item. Further each template can be used to reference a weighting mechanism importance level for each workflow item. Further each workflow item template can be used to link to KPI specific triggers such as routing triggers or triggers for supervisor intervention. Further each workflow item template can be used to link to a customer priority weighting mechanism importance level for each workflow item. In addition each workflow item template can be used to link to an event driven weighting mechanism importance level for each workflow item having to do with the thresholds or business of various workflows. For example the routing of a workflow item can be made dependent on the number of other work items already in queue for that item or associated items. Or the routing of a workflow item can be made dependent on the type and number of other work items being handled by a particular agent or knowledge worker. Furthermore the routing of a workflow item can be made dependent on the skill level of a particular agent or knowledge worker or the skill requirements of different workgroups. Moreover the routing of a workflow item can be made dependent on the stored or dynamic workflow item preferences of a particular agent or knowledge worker or the workflow item preferences as illustrated in of different workgroups. The Administration Manager interface is used to define the attributes and trigger points referenced here for Workflow Templates and trusted applications.

Triggers are actions based on pre set parameters that occur as a result of certain events or thresholds being accomplished. Triggers may act as entry points or next step instructions for workflow. For example TVM events can act as triggers because they often signal the passage of a certain event that then causes a next event in the workflow to occur. For example the request for the loan may be triggered as a result of a phone call from the customer likewise that request may be triggered by e mail chat etc. . So the phone call coming in on a certain number or called from a certain number can be the basis for a trigger. After the initial call trigger event has completed the agent might do a wrap up procedure. So when the caller hangs up that can be characterized as a trigger event that causes the wrap up part of the workflow to ensue. Subsequent to the originating call and wrap up workflow other work items may be spawned as a result. So the wrap up being completed may trigger a fulfillment activity and so on. Skills workgroup requirements such as service levels customer priorities and workforce preferences may also be used as triggers. In short any piece of data or workflow event that can be characterized and parameterized in the database can essentially be used as a trigger.

Workflow Templates can be created as the basis for a workflow item that agents or knowledge workers or supervisors use. In addition Workflow Templates can be created to be used by customers. The trigger points for when a document is used by a knowledge worker let s say versus a customer are also determined when creating the template. Further in creating a Workflow Templates the administrator can instruct the system to save scripts associated with the template that can be saved as XML EDI JSP CGI VXML etc. so as to be able to automatically generate documents or logic flows consistent with the target media type for the anticipated interactions with customers.

Each Workflow Template includes a number of workflow items. For each workflow item the administrator may define or edit the name step and then select and store names of each workflow item step . The administrator may also define the Description of each workflow item step and then select and store the description of each workflow item step . Once the description is defined the administrator may proceed to build or reference the Workflow Template step . If the administrator chooses to reference the Workflow Template the referenced item may include a reference to a URL executable or query for launching a trusted application step . If the administrator opts to build the Workflow Template the administrator must select the appropriate fields labels and data sources for the Workflow Template step . Once the Workflow Template is either built or referenced by the administrator the next step allows for the administrator to store the Workflow Template attributes step .

A customer facing workflow item may be defined by the administrator step . If the administrator chooses to define the customer facing workflow item the administrator must then select the presentation type for the customer facing item step . If the administrator opts not to define the customer facing item only the presentation type for workforce facing item is selected item .

Customer Facing Work Items as the name implies are work items and activities that a customer can see or hear. Workforce Facing Work Items are work items and activities that are for internal use only. Customer Facing Work Items include but are not limited to an IVR dialogue that a customer hears in routing their call or doing automation tasks a web based form for filling out a loan application a web based form for responding to a customer satisfaction survey and a customer qualification form as a prerequisite to a chat dialogue. Workforce Facing Work Items include but are not limited to a partially filled out loan application from a customer that needs to be completed a workforce based preference pick list that allows an agent to select work items a supervisor scoring screen that allows a supervisor to rate the activities of an agent a trouble ticket that needs to be routed from an agent to a technical support person.

Once the presentation attributes are selected the next step allows for the administrator to store the presentation attributes step . The administrator then proceeds to link step each Workflow Template to KPI library and metrics select authorized workgroups step for each Workflow Template define skills and skills weighting step for each Workflow Template and define project and workgroup entry exit points step for each Workflow Template. For each of steps and the administrator proceeds to select and store each item steps respectively . Views for each workflow item may then either be defined by the administrator as push or pull step . If the push view is selected the administrator is then prompted to select an automatic workgroup queue placement of workflow items step . Alternatively if the pull view is selected the administrator is prompted to select the dynamic display of picklist view of workflow items. The administrator then proceeds to define worker and workgroup item step for each Workflow Template define customer prioritization step for each Workflow Template define workgroup related thresholds for routing step for each Workflow Template and define agent related threshold for routing step for each Workflow Template. For each of steps and the administrator proceeds to select and store each item steps respectively .

After all of the elements related to each workflow item are defined and stored the administrator may then proceed to end the Workflow Template provisioning process or continue to on defining additional options step . If the administrator proceeds to end the provisioning process then the Workflow Template is stored in the database step . Alternatively the administrator may proceed not to end the template provisioning process in order to add more options. Options available to the administrator include create page for supervisor input step create VXML code for supervisor input step create page for customer input step create VXML code for supervisor input step create page for worker input step and create VXML code for worker input step . If any one of these options is selected the administrator will be prompted to either select and or store the document item steps and . The Workflow Template provisioning process subsequently ends after the administrator has successfully completed the selection of options step .

Referring again to a process for linking a Workflow Template to a phone IVR project starts after the administrator logs into the administration manager application and specifies or defines a particular company step . The software asks step to specify a new or existing company for which the template is to be associated with. If the company is a new company the administrator defines step the new company s attributes. If an existing company the administrator selects step the company from a list of companies having information previously stored. Next the administrator is prompted to select either a new or existing project step . The administrator will either choose to define a new project step or select an existing project step . Once a project is made available the administrator will be prompted to select a phone IVR element step . If the administrator opts not to select a phone IVR element then the process proceeds to the Flow Chart for non TVM Linkage step as described in . Otherwise the administrator is prompted to select the first Workflow Template from a drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the first Workflow Template must be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps . Next the administrator is prompted to select an additional Workflow Template from another drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the additional Workflow Template must again be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps .

After the entry exit points have been applied to the Workflow Template the administrator may choose to use text to speech TTS or pre recorded speech step . If TTS is selected the administrator is prompted to select auto generate text to speech script for IVR step while the program subsequently links TTS library to VXML document and or IVR script step . Alternatively if the pre recorded speech is selected the administrator is prompted to select pre recorded prompts to play from down down list step while the program subsequently links pre recorded prompts to VXML document and or IVR script step .

The administrator may choose to define more media types or end the process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the process for Workflow Template linkage to web callback step as described in .

Referring to a process for linking KPI templates to web callback projects starts after the administrator logs into the administration manager application step and specifies or defines a particular company. The software asks step to specify a new or existing company for which the template is to be associated with. If the company is a new company the administrator defines step the new company s attributes. If an existing company the administrator selects step the company from a list of companies having information previously stored. Next the administrator is prompted to select either a new or existing project step . The administrator will either choose to define a new project step or select an existing project step . Once a project is made available the administrator will be prompted to select a web callback element step . Once the administrator selects a web callback element the attributes are saved in a database step . Next the administrator is prompted to select the first Workflow Template from a drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the first Workflow Template must be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps . Next the administrator is prompted to select an additional Workflow Template from another drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the additional Workflow Template must again be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps .

After the entry exit points have been applied to the Workflow Template the administrator must select type of document to use for web callback document step . Next the administrator may select either a CGI JSP or HTML script steps respectively and then subsequently link after each selection the attributes to the appropriate script steps .

The administrator may choose to define more media types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the flow chart for Workflow Template linkage to web callback step .

The administrator may choose to define more document types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator may choose to define more media types or end the process step . If the administrator decides to end the process the project attributes are stored in a database and the process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the process for Workflow Template linkage to email project step as described in .

After the entry exit points have been applied to the Workflow Template the administrator must select type of document to be linked to the email template step . Next the administrator may select either a CGI JSP or HTML script steps respectively and then subsequently link after each selection the attributes to the appropriate script steps .

The administrator may choose to define more media types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the flow chart for Workflow Template linkage to web callback step as described in .

The administrator may choose to define more document types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator may choose to define more media types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the flow chart for Workflow Template linkage to chat project step as described in .

In a process for associating a Workflow Template with a Chat project is illustrated according to an embodiment of the invention and starts when the administrator logs on step . The software asks step to specify a new or existing company for which the template is to be associated with. If the company is a new company the administrator defines step the new company s attributes. If an existing company the administrator selects step the company from a list of companies having information previously stored. Next the administrator is prompted to select either a new or existing project step . The administrator will either choose to define a new project step or select an existing project step . Once a project is made available the administrator will be prompted to select a chat template step . Once the administrator selects a chat template the attributes are stored in a database step . Next the administrator is prompted to select the first Workflow Template from a drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the first Workflow Template must be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps . Next the administrator is prompted to select an additional Workflow Template from another drop down list step . Entry Exit points to be applied for the additional Workflow Template must again be selected by the administrator steps and are subsequently stored steps . This process may be repeated for additional Workflow Templates.

After the entry exit points have been applied to the Workflow Template the administrator must select type of document to be linked to the chat template step . Next the administrator may select either a CGI JSP or HTML script steps respectively and then subsequently link after each selection the attributes to the appropriate script steps .

The administrator may choose to define more media types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the flow chart for Workflow Template linkage for non TVM linkage step as described in .

The administrator may choose to define more document types or end the provisioning process step . If the administrator decides to end the process the project attributes are stored in a database and the provisioning process ends step . Otherwise the administrator may choose to define more media types or end the process step . If the administrator decides to end the provisioning process the project attributes are stored in a database and the process ends step . Otherwise the administrator will be taken to the flow chart for Workflow Template for non TVM linkage step as described in .

After the entry exit points have been applied to the Workflow Template the administrator is prompted to end the provisioning process or continue to next flow chart step . If the administrator chooses to complete the provisioning process the workflow attributes are saved in the database step and subsequently logged off step . Otherwise the administrator is taken to the flow chart for other workflow items step .

Referring to a process of supervisor view of Workflow Templates and agent performance according to an embodiment of the invention and starts when the supervisor logs on to the supervision manager application step . The supervisor then proceeds to search for interaction to score step where the supervisor may either select a worker or workflow item step . If a workflow item is selected the supervisor is prompted to select a company step and project step . If on the other hand a worker is selected the supervisor is prompted to select a worker to score step and the company step . The supervisor must then select a date range step followed by selecting a specific workflow item step . Selecting the specific workflow item includes loading the KPI template step . Once the workflow item is selected the workflow item is displayed played for the supervisor to see or hear or both step . This step further includes finding the interaction in the database step .

Once the workflow item is displayed for the supervisor step the supervisor may choose to select the appropriate KPI metric step and score for KPI metric step from the drop down list. The supervisor may add subsequent KPI metric or choose to complete this step step . If no additional KPI metrics is selected the scores are stored in the database step . Otherwise the supervisor is given additional KPI metrics and score for KPI metrics to select from steps . The supervisor must next address workflow items that are either complete or incomplete step . For incomplete workflow items the supervisor attempts to work to complete these items and again queried on whether the item is or is not complete step . Incomplete items go back to the ACD queue step while the supervisor proceeds to log off or return to other duties step . Completed items with or without supervisor intervention are sent to next step where the supervisor scoring ends and or completion of session for this interaction ends step . Scores for this session are then stored in a database step . Next the supervisor is queried for any required specific actions to take step . If no actions are required the supervisor may log off or attend to other duties step . If a specific action is required the supervisor is queried on whether or not contact with customer is required step . If contact with a customer is required then the supervisor must contact the customer for follow up step . The supervisor is again queried to take action regarding whether or not worker discipline or coaching is required step . If worker discipline or coaching is required the supervisor must then contact the worker for follow up step . If no further actions are required the supervisor may subsequently log off or returns to other duties step .

FIGS. and A C illustrate processes for Customer Scoring of Workflow examples of specific media types. Customers will have the ability to participate in the completion of workflow items. For example a loan application may be partially filled out by a customer. Subsequent to the form being partially filled out the Workflow item ACD may route that form or document to a knowledge worker who checks and verifies certain data. Subsequent to the knowledge worker checking and verifying certain data the Workflow ACD may route the modified form back to the customer for completion. This cycle may repeat itself or be modified to include various participants until the successful conclusion of the interaction s and workflow. In addition customers may provide their own input on KPI measures based on their interactions with the agents knowledge workers supervisors and workflow items that they came into contact with. Such additional input may be accommodated in a plurality of media types. For example customers may provide spoken or touch tone input during an automated IVR based Interactive Voice Response telephone call. Such input may be further used to dynamically route the interaction so the customer can get customized treatment during that interaction or the data may be stored and used as a means to route and treat subsequent interactions or that data may be used to act both on the current interaction and also subsequent interactions. Such customer solicited input may also be gotten with interactions with e mails or web based callback and chat interactions in the form of questionnaires that are screen based. For example such questionnaires can be automatically generated by the system as described earlier in the form of XML EDI JSP CGI or HTML based documents which are then associated with a specific project and thus a specific workflow item for the customer interaction.

Referring to a process of customer scoring of workflow interaction phone call example according to an embodiment of the invention and starts when the customer calls in the contact center step . Beginning at step when a customer calls the Contact Center the system extracts the ANI and DNIS data step where the data is searched in a database step . The system checks whether or not the customer data matches the data found in the database step . If the customer data does not match the system plays a message and queries the customer for customer ID data step . The customer next action is to input their customer identifier number step . In the case where the customer data match the system proceeds to load the project step . Next the KPI template is loaded step . The customer is then queried to load an interaction survey step . If the customer selects the Post Interaction survey the customer proceeds to the Post Interaction survey process step . If the customer selects the Pre Interaction survey the system plays questions from the KPI template step following a request for customer input from the survey question step .

Following the customer input to the survey question the customer is then queried for another survey step . If the customer decides to end the survey the scores are stored in a database step . If the customer opts for additional survey questions additional survey questions are played back to the customer step . For each survey question presented to the customer the customer input is requested step . Once all additional survey questions are done the survey is complete step and the scores are stored in the database step . The score value is then compared to a score trigger value where additional routing may be required step . If no score trigger is initiated the original call is answered normally step . However if the score trigger is initiated additional routing action is required where the call is sent to the supervisor routing for further action. At the supervisor routing step step if routing is determined to be required the original call is sent to the supervisor step . Otherwise the call is sent to the best suited agent based on KPI Triggers and availability step . Once a call is routed to an appropriate agent step supervisor monitoring is either required or not depending on Agent s response step . If supervisor monitoring is required then an alert is sent to supervisor to monitor the Agent screen step . If no monitoring is required the transaction between the customer and Agent continues step .

Towards the end of the transaction between the customer and Agent step the customer is queried on whether to participate in a post interactive survey step . If the customer opts not to participate the transaction ends step . Otherwise the transaction is sent to the post interaction survey step where the KPI Template is loaded step . At this time the agent transfers the customer to survey questions step . Following the customer input to the survey question step the customer is then queried for another survey step . If the customer decides to end the survey the scores are stored in a database step . If the customer opts for additional survey questions additional survey questions are played back to the customer step . For each survey question presented to the customer the customer input is requested step . Once all additional survey questions are done the survey is complete step and the scores are stored in the database step . At the supervisor routing step step if routing is determined to be required the call is sent to the supervisor step . Otherwise the transaction ends step .

Referring to a process of customer scoring of non TVM workflow document example according to an embodiment of the invention and starts when a customer fills out a web callback form step . Beginning at step when a customer fills out a web callback CGI JSP or HTML form on the website the system extracts the customer data step and the customer record is searched in a database step . The system checks whether or not the customer matches the data found in the database step . If the customer data does not match a customer verification document is sent to the customer to fill out step . Subsequently the ACD routes a partial form to an agent or knowledge worker step . In the case where the customer data match the system proceeds to load the project step . Next the knowledge worker proceeds to work on the workflow document step . The workflow ACD subsequently routes the document back to the customer step where the completed document is stored in a database step . The customer is then queried to load an interaction survey step . If the customer selects the Post Interaction survey the customer proceeds to the Post Interaction survey process step . If the customer selects the Pre Interaction survey the system plays questions from the KPI template step following a request for customer input from the survey question step .

Following the customer input to the survey question the customer is then queried for another survey step . If the customer decides to end the survey the scores are stored in a database step . If the customer opts for additional survey questions additional survey questions are played back to the customer step . For each survey question presented to the customer the customer input is requested step . Once all additional survey questions are done the survey is complete step and the scores are stored in the database step . The score value is then compared to a score trigger value where additional routing may be required step . If no score trigger is initiated the original workflow item is completed normally step . However if the score trigger is initiated additional routing action is required where the workflow is sent to the supervisor routing for further action. At the supervisor routing step step if routing is determined to be required an alert is sent to the supervisor step . Otherwise the workflow is sent to the best suited worker based on KPI Triggers and availability step . Once the workflow item is routed to an appropriate agent step supervisor monitoring is either required or not depending on Agent s response step . If supervisor monitoring is required then an alert is sent to supervisor to monitor the workflow interaction step . If no monitoring is required the interaction between the customer and Agent continues step .

Towards the end of the interaction between the customer and Agent step the customer is queried on whether to participate in a post interaction survey step . If the customer opts not to participate the workflow interaction ends step . Otherwise the interaction is sent to the post interaction survey step where the KPI Template is loaded step . At this time the agent transfers the customer to survey questions step . Following the customer input to the survey question step the customer is then queried for another survey step . If the customer decides to end the survey the scores are stored in a database step . If the customer opts for additional survey questions additional survey questions are played back to the customer step . For each survey question presented to the customer the customer input is requested step . Once all additional survey questions are done the survey is complete step and the scores are stored in the database step . At the supervisor routing step step if routing is determined to be required an alert is sent to the supervisor step . Otherwise the transaction ends step .

Referring to a process of worker initiated preferences of workflow items according to an embodiment of the invention and starts when the worker logs on to the workflow ACD logon page step . Beginning at step when the worker logs on to the workflow ACD logon page the system validates the worker ID step where the worker is searched in a database step . The system checks whether or not the worker matches the data found in the database step . If the worker data does not match the worker must re validate or is automatically logged off step . Once validated the workflow item the worker is authorized to view is pulled step . In the case where the worker data match the system proceeds to load the available workflow items the worker is authorized to view step . Next the worker is queried to choose between a dynamic selection or modified stored preferences step . If the worker selects the modified stored option the worker then is able to select the stored preferences and modify it accordingly step . The stored preferences are subsequently stored in the database step . Alternatively if the worker selects the dynamic selection the system displays the current workflow items available step where the worker is able to select preferred workflow items in the ACD queue step which is then updated step . The worker may then proceed to log off ending the process step .

The present invention provides a service creation environment for handling manual automatic or semi automatic manipulation of a plurality of workflow items. The process of facilitating workflow items is accomplished via Workflow Templates and associated projects created in the Administration Manager which is provided in a user friendly interface such that it is easy and repeatable. Further the creation of a Workflow Template and associated logic generates many views of that logic e.g. IVR CGI Web CallBack etc. The service creation environment gives the administrator the ability to choose dynamic vs. static indicators and linkage to a plurality of media types. Furthermore these Workflow Templates are portable among call center systems.

Other embodiments and uses of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. Although the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to several preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

