---

title: Mutation in the rat adenomatous polyposis coli gene within the human mutation hotspot region
abstract: A rat with a disrupted Apc (adenomatous polyposis coli) gene is provided. The mutation can include an A to T transversion changing a lysine to a stop codon at codon 1137. Methods of generating the knockout rat are provided. Also provided is the offspring or progeny of that rat. In addition, methods of using these rats are provided, including methods for screening a carcinogen or a promoter of carcinogenesis, and methods for screening preventive and inhibitory agents of carcinogenesis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07897834&OS=07897834&RS=07897834
owner: Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation
number: 07897834
owner_city: Madison
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061101
---
This invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 732 732 filed Nov. 1 2005.

This invention was made with United States government support under grant No. CA 063677 awarded by the NIH. The United States may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention is related to tumor susceptible non human animals and to the use of such animals in identification of anti tumor agents.

Familial adenomatous polyposis FAP is an inherited condition in which numerous polyps form mainly in the epithelium of the large intestine. While these polyps start out benign malignant transformation into colon cancer occurs when the polyps are not treated. FAP can occur due to mutations in the Adenomatous Polyposis Coli Apc gene. The product of the Apc gene is a 300 kDa cytoplasmic protein associated with the adherence junction protein catenin. Humans with mutations in the Apc gene get hundreds to thousands of adenomas in the colon and typically develop colorectal cancer.

Experimental analysis of human colon cancer aims to develop an accurate model for studying tumor initiation progression and potential treatments. Much of modern cancer research is predicated on the establishment of animal tumor models in particular rodent models. Murine mouse models are widely used. Traditionally the rat has been favored for physiological studies while the mouse has been preferred for genetics.

One of the most widely distributed mouse models for studying human intestinal cancer is the Apc Min mouse with a two month growth period for macroscopically visible countable tumors. The Apcmouse was obtained through the use of chemical mutagenesis using N ethyl N nitrosourea ENU and was described by Moser et al. 1993 90 8977 8981. The Apcmutant mice carry a single nonsense mutation in the adenomatosis polyposis coli Apc gene that results in a multiple intestinal neoplasia Min phenotype in affected mice hence the name Apc.

While the Apc gene is typically altered in humans similarly affected by colorectal tumors there are important differences between the manifestations of the disease in humans and mice. The Min mouse and related mouse models including Apc and Apcare not without their disadvantages. One of the main criticisms of the models is that the tumors arise primarily in the small intestine in contrast to the colonic localization in human FAP patients. Mice are rarely used as models in major animal drug trials owing to their small size short life span and low amounts of recoverable plasma. Additionally Min mice do not develop metastases to distant sites. Finally mouse chromosomes are acrocentric yet the analysis of mechanisms of loss of heterozygosity requires data on both arms of a metacentric chromosome. Although the Rb 7.18 9Lub metacentric fusion line of mice provides a means to confirm somatic recombination in the Min mouse Haigis and Dove 2003 33 33 39 this translocation does not reflect the natural state and the mice have a low colonic tumor incidence and multiplicity 21 incidence 

The laboratory rat presents several advantages over the mouse an increased size and longevity an increased tolerance of tumor burden and an overwhelming use for large scale chemoprevention studies. Most important the metacentric structure of rat chromosome 18 provides new ways to study the mechanisms of Apc loss of heterozygosity LOH that cannot be studied endogenously in the mouse and that cannot be manipulated in the human. The importance of the rat centers around a debate on the role of genomic instability in colon cancer and whether genomic instability is necessary for tumor initiation or genomic instability is acquired afterwards and either stimulates neoplastic progression or simply accumulates as the neoplasm advances. The rat could thus provide a metacentric model on which to test these hypotheses. However at present no embryonic stem cell lines exist for the rat precluding knockout technology via traditional homologous recombination.

It would be advantageous to create a new animal model system for mimicking disease progression prevention and treatment for evaluation of human therapeutics in human intestinal cancer including colorectal cancer. Such model system could be used for screening compounds for carcinogenic activity as well as screening compound for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity. The present invention addresses these and other related needs.

This invention provides a mutant rat having a disruption in its Apc gene that prevents expression of a functional Apc protein which results in increased susceptibility to tumor development in the rat s colon compared to a wild type rat. The disruption in the Apc gene may result in tumor development in the rat s colon compared to a wild type rat.

This invention provides a mutant rat having a disrupted Apc gene having the nucleotide sequence of Rat Genome Database ID No. 1554322 SEQ ID NO 16 .

The disruption in the Apc gene may result in a truncated Apc protein. The endogenous Apc gene may be disrupted by mutagenesis. The mutant rat may be an inbred line. The mutant rat may be heterozygous for the disruption in the Apc gene.

The disruption of the Apc gene in the mutant rat may be a germline mutation. The germline mutation may be passed to a somatic cell.

This invention provides the offspring or progeny of a mutant rat where the offspring or progeny has inherited the disrupted portion of the Apc gene. The offspring or progeny may include a disrupted Apc gene that has the nucleotide sequence of Rat Genome Database ID No. 1554322 SEQ ID NO 16 .

This invention provides a method for screening a compound for carcinogenic activity which includes administering the compound to a mutant rat having a disruption in its Apc gene and comparing the incidence of tumors between the mutant rat administered with the compound and a mutant rat not administered with the compound. The disrupted Apc gene may have the nucleotide sequence of Rat Genome Database ID No. 1554322 SEQ ID NO 16 . The higher incidence of tumors may be indicative of the compound having carcinogenic activity and the lower incidence of tumors may be indicative of the compound not having carcinogenic activity. The method may include administering a compound having carcinogenesis inhibitory activity to the mutant rat.

This invention provides a method for screening a compound for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity which includes administering the compound to a mutant rat having a disruption in its Apc gene and comparing the incidence of tumors between the mutant rat administered with the compound and a mutant rat having a tumor but not administered with the compound. The disrupted Apc gene may have the nucleotide sequence of Rat Genome Database ID No.1554322 SEQ ID NO 16 . Lower incidence of tumors may be indicative of the carcinogenesis inhibitory activity and a higher incidence of tumors may be indicative of the compound not having carcinogenesis inhibitory activity. The method may include administering to the mutant rat a compound having carcinogenic activity. Alternatively the method may include administering to the mutant rat a compound suspected of having carcinogenic activity. The compound may be administered before tumor development. Alternatively the compound may be administered after tumor development.

This invention provides a method of generating a mutant rat which includes disrupting the rat s Apc gene where the disruption prevents expression of the Apc gene and results in tumor development in the rat s colon. The disruption may include an A to T mutation in the Apc gene changing a lysine to a stop codon at codon position 1137. The disruption may be effected by mutagenesis. The mutagenesis may be chemical mutagenesis. The chemical mutagenesis may be effected using N ethyl N nitrosourea. Alternatively the mutagenesis may include mutagenesis using a transgenic construct. The transgenic construct may include the nucleotide sequence deposited under ID 1554322 in the Rat Genome Database.

This invention provides an isolated nucleic acid comprising the nucleotide sequence of Rat Genome Database ID No. 1554322 SEQ ID NO 16 . The invention provides a vector that includes the isolated nucleic acid sequence SEQ ID NO 16. The invention also provides a rat embryo that includes the isolated nucleic acid sequence SEQ ID NO 16.

The practice of the present invention employs unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology including recombinant techniques microbiology cell biology biochemistry immunology protein kinetics mass spectroscopy and microscopy which are within the skill of art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature e.g. in Sambrook et al. 2000 3rd ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Volumes 1 3 John Wiley Sons Inc. Kriegler 1990 . Stockton Press New York Dieffenbach et al. 1995 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Generally the nomenclature and the laboratory procedures in recombinant DNA technology described below are those well known and commonly employed in the art. Standard techniques are used for cloning DNA and RNA isolation amplification and purification. Generally enzymatic reactions involving DNA ligase DNA polymerase restriction endonucleases and the like are performed according to the manufacturer s specifications. Procedures employing commercially available assay kits and reagents are typically used according to manufacturer defined protocols unless otherwise noted.

The term nucleic acid or polynucleotide sequence refers to a single or double stranded polymer of deoxyribonucleotide or ribonucleotide bases read from the 5 to the 3 end. Nucleic acids may also include modified nucleotides that permit correct read through by a polymerase and do not alter expression of a polypeptide encoded by that nucleic acid.

The phrase nucleic acid sequence encoding refers to a nucleic acid which directs the expression of a specific protein or peptide. The nucleic acid sequences include both the DNA strand sequence that is transcribed into RNA and the RNA sequence that is translated into protein. The nucleic acid sequences include both the full length nucleic acid sequences as well as non full length sequences derived from the full length sequences. It should be further understood that the sequence includes the degenerate codons of the native sequence or sequences which may be introduced to provide codon preference in a specific host cell.

The term coding sequence or coding region refers to a nucleic acid molecule having sequence information necessary to produce a gene product when the sequence is expressed.

The term nucleic acid construct or DNA construct is sometimes used to refer to a coding sequence or sequences operably linked to appropriate regulatory sequences so as to enable expression of the coding sequence and inserted into a expression cassette for transforming a cell. This term may be used interchangeably with the term transforming DNA or transgene . Such a nucleic acid construct may contain a coding sequence for a gene product of interest along with a selectable marker gene and or a reporter gene.

The term label refers to a composition detectable by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical or chemical means. For example useful labels include P fluorescent dyes colorimetric labels electron dense reagents enzymes e.g. as commonly used in an ELISA biotin digoxigenin or quantum dots. As used herein the term label also includes indirect labeling of proteins using detectable labels bound to other molecules or complexes of molecules that bind to a protein of interest including antibodies and proteins to which antisera or monoclonal antibodies specifically bind. As used herein the term calorimetric label includes a label that is detected using an enzyme linked assay.

The phrases disruption of the gene and gene disruption refer to a mutation of the native endogenous DNA sequence usually one or more exons and or the promoter region of a gene so as to decrease or prevent expression of that gene in the cell as compared to the wild type or naturally occurring sequence of the gene. Disruption of the Apc gene refers to a mutation of the Apc gene so as to decrease or prevent expression of the Apc gene. A mutant rat with a disrupted Apc gene is a rat that no longer expresses the Apc gene or expresses the Apc gene at a decreased level as compared to the wild type or naturally occurring sequence of the Apc gene.

The term knockout or gene knockout refers to partial or complete suppression of the expression of at least a portion of a protein encoded by an endogenous DNA sequence in a cell. The term knockout rat refers to a genetically engineered rat one or more of whose genes have been made inoperable through a gene knockout.

A transgenic construct is a recombinant construct that includes the disrupted Apc nucleotide sequence. For example a transgenic construct may refer to a nucleic acid sequence that is designed to decrease or suppress expression of a protein encoded by endogenous DNA sequences in a cell. The nucleic acid sequence used as such transgenic construct is typically comprised of 1 DNA from some portion of the gene exon sequence intron sequence and or promoter sequence to be suppressed and 2 a marker sequence used to detect the presence of the transgenic construct in the cell. The transgenic construct is inserted into a cell and integrates with the genomic DNA so as to prevent or interrupt transcription of the native DNA sequence. Such insertion usually occurs by homologous recombination i.e. regions of the transgenic construct that are homologous to endogenbus DNA sequences hybridize to each other when the transgenic construct is inserted into the cell and recombine so that the transgenic construct is incorporated into the corresponding position of the endogenous DNA . The transgenic construct nucleic acid sequence may include a full or partial sequence of one or more exons and or introns of the gene to be suppressed a full or partial promoter sequence of the gene to be suppressed or combinations thereof. The transgenic construct can be inserted into a recombinant or expression vector. The transgenic construct can be inserted into an embryonic stem cell ES cell and is integrated into the ES cell genomic DNA usually by the process of homologous recombination. This ES cell is then injected into and integrates with the developing embryo.

The terms rodent and rodents refer to all members of the phylogenetic order Rodentia including any and all progeny of all future generations derived therefrom.

The terms progeny or offspring refer to any and all future generations derived and descending from a particular mammal and in particular to a rat containing a mutation in the Apc gene. Thus progeny of any successive generation are included herein such that the progeny the F1 F2 F3 generations and so on indefinitely are included in this definition.

The term germline mutation is any detectable heritable variation in the lineage of germ cells. Mutations in these cells are transmitted to offspring.

The term congenic refers to organisms that genetically differ in one locus. For example congenic rats are generated by mating two inbred rat strains and backcrossing the descendants a number of generations with one of the strains the recipient strain. Conversely the strain that contributes the smallest amount of genetic material is termed the donor strain.

A compound having carcinogenesis inhibitory activity refers to a compound that is capable of preventing carcinogenesis and or inhibiting growth of tumors.

Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by methods commonly known in the art e.g. the local homology algorithm Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 489 by the search for similarity method Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 2448 by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG Madison Wis. or by inspection.

Protein and nucleic acid sequence identities are evaluated using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool BLAST which is well known in the art Karlin and Altschul 1990 87 2267 2268 Altschul et al. 1997 25 3389 3402 . The BLAST programs can be used with the default parameters or with modified parameters provided by the user.

The particular gene that is the subject of the present invention is Apc Adenomatous Polyposis Coli which is involved in familial colon cancer.

The present invention provides mutagenized rat that simulates or mimics human colon cancer and can thus be used as a valuable model system for studying human colon cancer. This invention provides a Pirc rat the terms Pirc Polyposis in the Rat Colon or Apcare used interchangeably herein a rat knockout model of human familial adenomatous polyposis. The Pirc rat has a disrupted Apc gene. Preferably the Pirc rat has a single point mutation with an A to T transversion changing a lysine to a stop codon at codon 1137 in the polypeptide encoded by the Apc gene. Thus functional Apc protein is not expressed in somatic cells of the mutant rat.

This invention provides the isolation of a truncating mutation of the Apc gene in rats. The mutation of the Apc gene in rats can be somatic or germline. Preferably the truncating mutation of the Apc gene in rats is a germline mutation.

Knockout i.e. loss of function or change in function rats can be produced by methods known in the art such as somatic ENU treatment described in the examples below and in Moser et al. 1993 90 8977 8981 ENU mutagenesis followed by the screening of genes of interest by direct sequencing Smits et al. 2006 22 232 240 or by a calorimetric yeast assay Zan et al. 2003 21 645 651 . A broad screen based method of chemically mutagenizing rodents to produce either germline or autologus mutations can be used to obtain knockout rats as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 2003 0150001. This method is unusual in that animals are administered mutagen e.g. by feeding rather than produced transgenically and then screened for the presence of mutations in desired genes rather than selected by virtue of their phenotype. A method of identifying a mutation in a gene of interest is then used such as the method disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 994 075. For example a founder of the Pirc rat kindred can be identified by screening genomic DNAs from the progeny of N ethyl N nitrosourea ENU treated males for truncating mutations in Apc. The mutagenized males can be selected from an inbred line of rats e.g. the inbred Fisher 344 line of rats. Screening can be performed using a yeast gap repair ADE2 reporter truncation assay. Rats can also be mutagenized using target selected mutagenesis Smits et al. 2004 83 332 334 .

Preferably about 2530 bases of Apc exon 15 are amplified with chimeric primers for the rat Apc sequence carrying homology to a universal vector that accepts any such chimeric amplicon. The amplicon is then gap repaired into the universal vector and transformed into ADE2 deficient yeast. Screening of the F1 progeny is performed to yield a single plate with half red half white colonies this is the expected ratio for a heterozygous mutant. The mutation in this Pirc rat is then confirmed by sequencing. Preferably the mutation is at nucleotide position 3409 of the Apc gene creating a K to X AAG to TAG change thereby creating a stop codon at position 1137. This Pirc Apc allele is registered in the Rat Genome Database RGD and RGD ID 1554322 has been assigned to it. It is shown here as SEQ ID NO 16.

The present invention also provides the offspring or progeny of the Pirc rat. The mutation in the Pirc rat of this invention has been successfully transmitted to more than 60 offspring and to 5 progeny generations.

The Pirc rat can be used for screening of carcinogens and promoters of carcinogenesis. Thus the present invention provides a method for screening a compound for carcinogenic activity using the Pirc rat of this invention.

The Pirc rat can also be used for screening of compound for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity. Thus the present invention provides a method for screening compound for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity using the Pirc rat of this invention.

The screening of compounds for carcinogenesis activity and or screening of compounds for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity can include longitudinal studies on a set of tumors within a rat whose addresses are established by imaging e.g. microCT microPET or endoscopy on the living rat. The endoscope permits to obtain pinch or snare biopsies from tumors. Sufficient DNA can be obtained from these biopsies to carry out Pyrosequencing using primers that flank the informative SNP sites in a heterozygote carrying the Pirc mutation. Tumor volume calculations can be done in Amira 4.1 Mercury Computer Systems Inc. Chelmsford Mass. .

The inhibitory or the carcinogenic activity of compounds can be determined by the calculation of tumor multiplicity in experimental animals versus control untreated animals. Comparison between tumors at different stages can be performed. Furthermore each rat provides in the range of 5 to 10 colonic tumors to study. If the tumors were independent across animals this would reduce by a factor of 5 to 10 the number of animals needed. Independence will not be assumed but even accounting for correlation within animals the overall sample size required is reduced compared to a standard experimental design.

The analysis of tumor response on the basis of endoscopic microCT and microPET images can be validated by establishing the confidence limits of these measurements. The first step of validation is to measure the coefficient of variation in a series of replicate measurements on the same tumor by each modality. This coefficient of variation is expected to differ for different sizes of tumors and perhaps for different biological classes. The microPET images can also vary with the batch of radiolabeled probe. Overall no rigorous conclusion can stand if it is based upon differences that are not significantly different from the salient coefficient of variation of the measurement. A precaution that can routinely be taken in measurements that could involve observer bias is to score blind to the identity of the sample.

To the inventors knowledge this is the first mutant rat to be generated on a completely inbred line. The Pirc rat can be used as a cancer test model for multiple purposes. In principle it is possible to treat the Pirc rat with various carcinogens agents for treatment and prevention of carcinogenesis biomarkers labels modifiers or to subject the Pirc rat to various types of surgery in order to study colorectal tumor initiation progression and potential treatments. These studies could then be used as bases for treatments of humans that have developed colorectal cancer or are susceptible to developing one. One skilled in the art will know to cross the Pirc rat with other rat strains transgenic rats and knockouts to generate a cross of the Pirc mutation into other desirable genetic backgrounds. The resulting progeny can be used for a variety of assays related to colorectal tumor initiation progression and potential treatments. Therefore the Pirc rat kindred will enhance our ability to study the development progression physiology and treatment of disease.

Much of modern cancer research is predicated on the establishment of tractable and quantitative animal tumor models in particular rodent models. Nakagama et al. 2005 96 627 636 . Some of the reasons for the value of the Pirc rat are highlighted in a recent article that provides a systematic review and meta analysis of colon chemoprevention in rats mice and men and discusses the suitability of rodent models of carcinogenesis in predicting efficacy in humans Corpet and Pierre 2005 41 1911 1922 . Some of the advantages of the Pirc rat over prior models for colon chemoprevention are highlighted below. Pirc rats in accordance with this invention have one or more of these advantages.

Apc the gene mutated in the Pirc rat is the primary gene mutated in both sporadic and familial human colon tumors. Min the analogous mouse model of colorectal cancer the first mouse model of cancer that developed tumors that are easily observed develops 0 4 colonic tumors but has a short lifespan 3 6 months owing to 40 small intestinal adenomas. In contrast Pirc rats develop 3 6 colonic tumors with a long lifespan 8 months owing to 

The Pirc rat is already on an inbred Fischer 344 background which permits its study under genetically homogenous inbred conditions and a broad range of F344 Apc x i.e. other inbred conditions. The heterozygous mutation is transmissible in normal Mendelian ratios.

Table 1 compares human Apc derived colorectal cancer the Apcmouse the AOM rat models rat carcinogen and the rat model of this invention Pirc rat . Ranges are for strain averages not for individual animals. The founding mutation in 100 of human FAP and Min mouse intestinal tumors is in the Apc gene but 50 of carcinogen induced rat tumors have the founding mutation in the beta catenin gene. Chromosome status is important because it might affect the rate at which the Apc mutation undergoes loss of heterozygosity. The majority of data for carcinogen treated rats uses time points later than 10 months of age.

Current rat models of colon cancer induced by chemical carcinogens such as AOM DMB and PhiP have significant limitations they require long term 8 months time for development of tumors versus 

Existing rodent models for colorectal cancer do not fully recapitulate progression of the disease in humans. The rat model affords a much greater opportunity to understand disease progression and potentially efficacy of new treatments envisioned for humans. In short the new Apc rat model more effectively mimics the genotypic and phenotypic human disease than either the Apcmouse or the AOM rat models. Shown in Table 2 are some of the phenotypic advantages that the Pirc rat provides in comparison to other known carcinogen treated rats.

The Pirc rat of this invention does not have to have all of the above advantages over prior models for colon chemoprevention. The Pirc rat has at least one of the above advantages over prior models.

Rats. Rats were maintained in standard non microisolator cages. Rats were fed either 5020 chow Purina St. Louis Mo. or 8604 chow Teklad Madison Wis. with access to an automatic water supply. The following rat strains were used F344 NTac WF NHsd and SD Hsd. The colons of 3 rats were perfused with PBS to stretch the muscularis into a flat sheet. The square area of each was measured with a ruler and used to normalize the square area of non perfused colons to perfused ones. Tumors per square area were then calculated and averaged and the histology was assessed.

Colorimetric Yeast Assay. The N Ethyl N Nitrosourea ENU treatment of male rats for the mutagenesis screen was performed as previously described Zan et al. 2003 21 645 651 . F344 males were given an injection of 60 mg kg of ENU once per week for two weeks.

Long range PCR off of genomic DNA was performed using the following primers Forward GGC CAT CGA TAG CTC GAT GTA ACG TGC AGT TAA CGC CCA TGT CTC CTG GCT CAA GTT TGC SEQ ID NO 1 and Reverse CCT ACT AAC AGA TAC GCT ATG CAG GAC TCT GGA TTG CCC TGT TGG CAT GGC TGA AAT AA SEQ ID NO 2 . The final PCR reaction concentration mix was 1 Herculase Hotstart Buffer Stratagene La Jolla Calif. 0.2 mM dNTPs 25 ng l of each primer 0.15 U l Hotstart High Fidelity DNA Polymerase Stratagene 2 l of genomic DNA and ddHO to 10 l. PCR conditions were 94 C. for 2 min then 35 cycles of 94 C. for 45 min 61 C. for 45 min 72 C. for 2 min 30 sec with a final elongation step of 72 C. for 10 min. PCR products were confirmed by gel electrophoresis and cotransformed into yeast along with the universal vector Chen and Gould 2004 37 383 388 .

Genotyping of Apc Animals. Two PCR restriction enzyme digestion methods were developed to genotype the mutant SNP site of the Apcallele. One amplicon results in the mutant allele being cut by NheI and one results in the wild type allele being cut by HindIII. Both work by introducing the restriction enzyme recognition sites into the primers. These complementary methods control for incomplete digests.

The primer sequences were as follows for the NheI amplicon Forward GGA AGA CGA CTA TGA AGA TGG SEQ ID NO 3 and Reverse TGC CCT GTA CTG ATG GAG SEQ ID NO 4 . For the HindIII amplicon Forward AAT AAC GTT CAC TGT AGT TGG TAA GCT SEQ ID NO 5 and Reverse AGG CAA TCA AGA AGC CAG AA SEQ ID NO 6 .

MicroCT and Endoscopy. Normal chow was replaced with a non solid diet the night before microCT imaging. Anesthesia was administered through the regulated flow of isoflurane vapor 1 2 through a nose cone. The colon was flushed with a warm PBS enema 40 cc . The colon was insufflated with air 20 40 cc and microCT and endoscopic images were acquired on a Siemens MicroCAT 2 scanner. Acquisition proceeded for 8 minutes 80 kVp 500 A 400 steps 1 frame view 360 degree rotation 93 93 100 m voxel size and reconstruction was done via Shepp Logan filtered back projection. Amira v 4.1 TGS Inc. San Diego Calif. software was used for 2 and 3 dimensional image visualization and media production. Ex vivo imaging of excised colons was accomplished by filling the colon with barium as a contrast agent and tying off the ends.

Endoscopy was performed using an EG 1870K 6.0 mm color CCD chip videogastroscope and an EPK 1000 videoprocessor Pentax Medical Montvale N.J. . The image was captured on the workstation and photographed with an Olympus Camedia C 5050ZOOM digital camera using automatic exposure.

Somatic ENU treatment. ENU was dissolved in 95 EtOH and measured with a spectrophotometer at ODto obtain a final concentration of 1 mg ml. Either the ENU solution or 95 EtOH was injected intraperitoneally into 13 20 day old rats at 18 or 40 mg kg of body mass. Treated animals were isolated in a laminar flow hood for at least three days before being returned to normal housing.

Immunofluorescence. Immunofluorescence was performed by first de waxing the slides in xylene rehydrating through an EtOH series and boiling for 25 min in 0.01M citrate buffer pH 6.0. After washing in PBS slides were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. with the following primary antibodies anti mouse catenin TRITC mAb Transduction Laboratories Lexington Ky. at 1 200 and anti human Ki 67 pAb Novacastra Newcastle UK at 1 100. After washing in PBS 0.1 Tween 20 slides were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. with the following secondary antibodies goat anti mouse Alexafluor 594 Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. at 1 200 and donkey anti rabbit Alexafluor 488 Molecular Probes at 1 200.

After washing in PBS 0.1 Tween 20 slides were incubated for 5 min with DAPI mounted and sealed. Images were taken with a Zeiss Axiocam HRm camera mounted on a Zeiss Axiovert 200M inverted microscope. Images were taken with Axiovision software v4.5.0.0 .

Methylene Blue Staining. 0.5 methylene blue was heated until all particles were dissolved then cooled to room temperature. Fixed intestines were placed into the methylene blue for 15 30 seconds then washed in 70 methanol for 5 10 minutes.

Sanger Sequencing. Primers were digested away from the PCR amplicon of interest with Exonuclease I by adding the following mix to the PCR 3.3 U l of Exonuclease I Epicentre Madison Wis. 1.7 U l of shrimp alkaline phosphatase Roche Basel Switzerland and ddHO to 1.5 l. Reactions were incubated at 37 C. for 45 min and heat inactivated at 85 C. for 15 min. Big Dye Terminator Mix Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. and 5 sequencing buffer Applied Biosystems were added at a 2 3 ratio along with 6.6 mM sequencing primer. The reaction was then purified on Sephadex G 50 columns Roche and submitted to the UW Madison Biotechnology Center. Samples were run on an Applied Biosystems 3730 1 automated DNA sequencing instrument and results were analyzed using the DNAstar Madison Wis. software.

Pyrosequencing. Formalin fixed tumors were excised under a dissecting microscope to minimize contamination from non tumor tissue. The bottom one fourth of the polyp including the muscularis and any surrounding hyperplastic villi were excluded to enrich for tumor regions likely to exhibit Apc loss and catenin upregulation. Excised tissue was incubated overnight in distilled water at 65 C. to reverse formalin cross links. 100 mM NaOH was added to a final concentration of 50 mM and samples were incubated at 95 C. for at least four hours. Tris HCl pH 5.5 was then added to neutralize the solution and the samples were briefly centrifuged. The final PCR mix concentrations were as follows 1 GoTaq clear buffer 1.2 mM MgCl 0.2 mM dNTPs 264 pM of each primer 0.6 U of GoTaq Flexi Promega Madison Wis. 8 l of DNA and ddHO to 50 l. The PCR cycling profile was 94 C. for 3 min followed by 50 cycles of 94 C. for 15 sec 57 C. for 1 min 30 sec 72 C. for 2 min with a final elongation step of 72 C. for 10 min.

Pyrosequencing was performed according to the manufacturer s protocols using Pyro Gold Reagents on a PSQ96MA machine and PSQ 96MA v2.1 software Biotage Uppsala Sweden . 40 l of PCR product were used per well and only sequence reads with single base peak heights of over 120 units were included.

Primer sequences were as follows for the ApcSNP Forward ATG TGA ACC AGT CTT TGT GTC AG SEQ ID NO 7 Reverse biotinylated ATG CTG TTC TTC CTC AGA ATA ACG SEQ ID NO 8 Sequencing GGA AGA CGA CTA TGA AGA T SEQ ID NO 9 . For the p arm SNP dbSNP ss48531311 Forward GTG GAA ACG AAG CAT CAT TCT GA SEQ ID NO 10 Reverse biotinylated TGC TGT TCT AAA TTG CAC GTT TAC SEQ ID NO 11 Sequencing CGT ATT GGG TTG TGA GA SEQ ID NO 12 . For the q arm SNP dbSNP ss48531727 Forward biotinylated TCA AAC AGA AGG CAG TTT ATT CAG SEQ ID NO 13 Reverse GGG GGT AAA ATA ATA TGC CGA GA SEQ ID NO 14 Sequencing TCT TAG TAA TGT ACC AGA TG SEQ ID NO 15 .

An LOH MOH cutoff value of 32.8 was determined by adapting the normal mixture technique from Shoemaker et al. 1998 95 10826 10831. Tumor data n 114 were considered to arise either from an LOH normal component or an MOH normal component according to some mixing probability. Control data came from a known MOH component normal Pirc epithelium n 10 . Then using the fitted mixture model a critical signal intensity value c was determined so that Prob intensity c LOH 0.05. In the estimated normal mixture the LOH component had mean 16.2 and standard deviation 8.0 the MOH component had mean 43.2 and standard deviation 3.5 and an estimated fraction 84 of tumors were LOH. From this the critical signal value was c 32.8. Modes of the likelihood surface at the boundary of the parameter space were avoided. Computations were done in R R Development Core Team 2005 R A language and environment for statistical computing available at http www.R project.org .

Identification of the ApcMutation. The mutation was generated by treating a male Fischer 344 rat with ENU and mating it to a female Fischer 344 rat. The resulting progeny carried a subset of the mutations induced in the original male s sperm. The DNA was then extracted from these progeny founders and screened for mutations.

A 2.5 kb portion of the Apc gene was PCR amplified from the progeny and inserted into a yeast vector. The vector was transformed into yeast and plated on Ade2 indicator plates. If the Apc Ade2 fusion transcript was normal a large white colony was formed. If the fusion transcript was interrupted by an ENU induced stop codon in Apc then the loss of Ade2 allows the accumulation of a red substrate in the yeast giving rise to a small red colony. The Pirc founder rat exhibited a yeast plate with 50 red colonies indicating that a heterozygous stop codon mutation had been induced in the 2.5 kb region of the APC gene by ENU. The wild type sibling rat used for comparison had a wild type distribution of 13 red colonies due to background noise .

Screening of 1360 progeny yielded a single mutant with an A to T transversion changing a lysine to a stop codon at codon 1137 see Apcin . The founder male successfully transmitted the mutation to progeny. Ten of the resulting mutant N1 animals were brother sister mated and their offspring confirmed that the Pirc allele is homozygous lethal. Necropsy of three N1 Pirc heterozygotes two at 90 days and one at 120 days of age identified an average of 5 visible adenomatous polyps in the colon while three wild type age matched littermates were tumor free.

The founder Pirc male rat harbored a heterozygous point mutation at nucleotide 3409 of Apc creating a K X AAG TAG change at codon 1137 . No other mutations were found after sequencing the entire coding region and intron exon junctions 5 of the mutation. This allele was named Apcor Apc. The predicted APC protein would be truncated at the third amino acid of the second 15 amino acid catenin binding domain which is highly conserved among vertebrates.

A diagram of the known domains of the human Apc protein is shown in with the positions of the most well known mutations in human and mouse and the mutant Pirc rat this invention marked across the diagram. The 15 amino acid and 20 amino acid binding repeats circled are the beta catenin binding regions. It is possible that loss of Apc function results in upregulation of the oncogenic beta catenin protein inducing tumors. The Pirc rat therefore has a nonsense mutation that results in truncation of the protein and loss of almost all of the beta catenin binding domains.

Also shown in under the protein diagram is a graph of modal tumor multiplicities from human familial adenomatous polyposis FAP patients as compared to where their truncating mutation lies. Thus the Pirc rat mutation lies in an area analogous to a fairly severe FAP phenotype.

The ApcMutation is not Lethal. Apc animals were intercrossed on either an inbred F344 NTac F344 or a F344 WF NHsd WF F1 background to determine whether this Apcmutation is homozygous lethal. No homozygous mutants were obtained out of 71 total progeny with heterozygotes and wild type progeny exhibiting a 2 1 Mendelian ratio 49 22 . Thus the Apcallele is homozygous lethal on two genetic backgrounds. In the formal possibility that this lethality is caused by a second ENU induced mutation it would lie within 2.5 cM 95 Cl of the Apcmutation.

Consideration of the possibility that lethality is due to a second mutation X linked to Pirc. The data taken together strongly support the contention that Pirc is homozygous lethal however the possibility that the lethality is due to a second mutation X linked to Pirc was considered. If X is r recombination units from Pirc the probability of observing a Pirc homozygote at the kth generation conditional on non XX parents P Pirc Pirc non XX is

Using these probabilities 95 confidence intervals for r can be calculated. For example consider the hypothesis test H0 r r0 against HA r

Tumor phenotype segregates perfectly in 56 carriers and 23 non carriers. Suppose the phenotype is due to a linked loci X r recombination units from Pirc. The Binomial probability of observing no recombinations in 79 trials is 0.046 for r 0.038 and 0.00969 for r 0.057.

The phenotype of F344 Apc animals at the N1 N3 generations was analyzed. Around 11 months of age males became moribund from rectal bleeding and weight loss. By contrast females carrying this mutation have survived to over 14 months of age with no external signs of disease. Dissections at ages ranging from 88 to 397 days revealed multiple neoplasms in the small intestine and colon of both male and female heterozygotes.

The Pirc phenotype segregated perfectly with the Apcallele in 56 carriers and 23 non carriers. There is less than a 5 chance to observe this association if the phenotype were caused by a separate mutation more than 3.8 cM from Apc. Full necropsies of Pirc animals uncovered benign epidermoid cysts but no other neoplasms or metastases. No significant differences in the multiplicity or phenotype of intestinal tumors were seen between successive backcross generations of the Pirc kindred on the inbred F344 background indicating that any effects of ENU induced modifying alleles are relatively minor.

Tumor multiplicities were determined for both adenomas and microadenomas neoplasms less than 0.5 mm in diameter . A significant dependence on gender was observed with males developing more of both types of tumor in all regions of the intestinal tract. There was also a monotonic increase in tumor multiplicity with age reaching an average of 14 colonic adenomas in males and 9 in females over eight months of age Tables 3 and 4 .

Shown in Table 3 are the tumor multiplicities in Pirc rats. Colonic microadenoma multiplicities could not be accurately measured without histopathological confirmation and were excluded from these analyses. Neoplasms less than 0.5 mm in size were classified as microadenomas.

Shown in Table 4 is the estimation of age and gender effects on tumor multiplicity. A Poisson regression was used to estimate the effects of age and gender on tumor multiplicity in F344 Pirc animals. The estimated age and gender coefficients are shown in Table 4 along with associated p values and 95 confidence intervals for colon C small intestine SI and small intestinal microadenomas SITm . The results show that age and gender significantly affect each phenotype. The results were qualitatively similar when a Gaussian regression was used on a square root transformed phenotype. Results are shown for Poisson regression.

The incidence and multiplicity of colonic tumors is higher in the F344 Pirc rat than in carcinogen treated wild type F344 rats or the Min mouse. Importantly the Pirc rat addresses one of the major drawbacks of all genetic mouse models of intestinal cancer the prominence of tumors in the small intestine. The ratio of tumor multiplicities in the colon to that in the small intestine in Pirc rats averages 1 1. By contrast most lines of B6 Min mice have an average ratio of about 1 40 Table 1 . The estimated polyp incidence in the small intestine of human Familial Adenomatous Polyposis FAP patients ranges from 58 74 at first endoscopy and approaches 100 by 70 years Bulow 2004 53 381 386 with multiplicities exceeding 80 in 17 of patients monitored with video capsule endoscopy. Thus the distribution of intestinal tumors in the Pirc rat resembles that in FAP patients.

Thus it was unexpectedly discovered that the rat mutation in Apc results primarily in colon tumors as it does in humans. depicts tumors shown in circles labeled A D developed in the colon. The expected result was tumor development similar to the Min mouse which has a mutation in Apc and has tumors that occur primarily in the small intestine.

The histological and gross appearance of Pirc tumors was examined and is depicted in . Thus shows H E images of a focal adenocarcinoma with high grade dysplasia. b Enlargement of the larger rectangle in panel a showing invasion into the stalk. c Enlargement of the smaller rectangle in panel a showing high grade dysplasia as compared to normal crypts d from the same section. e H E of a peduncular colonic adenoma. f catenin red in original and DAPI blue in original immunofluorescence of the same tumor. The dashed line delineates dysplastic tissue i.e. tumor proper above and hyperplastic but non tumorigenic tissue below . g Magnification of the rectangle shown in panel f. h i j MicroCT endoscopic and dissection views respectively of three colonic tumors in an 11 month old F344 Pirc male. Scale bars a and e 1 mm j 1 cm.

To characterize the intestinal lesions histological examinations of sections of paraffin embedded formalin fixed tumors were performed. The neoplasms were identified as adenomas adenocarcinomas in situ or focal adenocarcinomas with invasion into the stalk . The histopathology and morphology of the tumors closely resembled that of the human. Tumors in the small intestine usually were flat while colonic tumors were peduncular. Adenomas varied in size frequently reaching 1 cm in diameter in older animals. Immunofluorescent staining of tumors revealed nuclear and cytoplasmic accumulation of P catenin within dysplastic abnormal cells as well as upregulation of the proliferation marker Ki 67 data not shown .

To determine whether longitudinal in vivo studies of intestinal tumorigenesis can be carried out a 334 day old Pirc rat was anesthetized and its tumors visualized by endoscopy. A 6 mm diameter endoscope provided clear images of three tumors with diameters 5.3 mm 5.7 mm and 6.8 mm. The same tumors were identified in three dimensional microCT images and confirmed upon dissection . This proof of principle paves the way for investigation into the sensitivity and specificity of endoscopy versus virtual colonoscopy. Endoscopy also enhances the statistical power of drug and genetic studies minimizing the numbers of tumor bearing rats required. Longitudinal studies of tumor progression and regression can be related to molecular profiles through endoscopic pinch biopsies of individual tumors.

The issue of whether genomic instability is necessary in early colonic neoplasms was also addressed. First loss of heterozygosity at the Apcsite on the inbred F344 background was quantitatively assayed by a novel Pyrosequencing assay. A majority of F344 tumors in the colon 87 34 39 and small intestine 100 24 24 showed loss of heterozygosity LOH of the wild type Apc allele at codon 1137.

The metacentric karyotype of the rat was used to address whether the function of the wild type Wistar Furth WF allele of Apc in F344 WF Pirc animals is lost through elimination of the entire WF chromosome through homozygosis via somatic recombination or through another genetic or epigenetic process. Polymorphic single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs on the p and q arms of chromosome 18 were assayed in tumors and in adjacent normal heterozygous tissue from F344 WF F1 and F2 animals .

Shown in is LOH analysis for chromosome 18 on F344 WF F1 and F2 tumors. The three SNPs tested ss48531311 17 Mb and Apc 27 Mb on the p arm and ss48531727 43 Mb on the q arm were all heterozygous in the normal tissue. The centromere open circle lies at approximately the 38 Mb position. LOH status at each SNP was assayed by quantitative Pyrosequencing. Five possible tumor genotypes are given left to right LOH involving only the two loci on the p arm LOH involving only Apc maintenance of heterozygosity at all three loci hemizygosity for both arms as assessed by aCGH and homozygosis for all three loci.

If both chromosome arms exhibit LOH whole chromosome loss with or without reduplication would be indicated. By contrast if only one arm undergoes LOH somatic recombination or terminal deletion would be supported. None of 22 colonic or 18 small intestinal tumors showed loss of both arms of the WF homolog. Of 16 colonic and 12 small intestinal tumors with arm specific LOH all loss events involved the Apc locus on the p arm extending at least 10 Mb distal in the majority of tumors. In all cases of LOH the WF allele was lost while the F344 allele was maintained.

Array based Comparative Genomic Hybridization aCGH analysis. The possibility of extended deletion of the q arm was tested by array comparative genomic hybridization aCGH analysis of two F344 colonic adenomas showing LOH at Apc . Immediately following necropsy DNA was extracted from approximately 50 mg each of tumor and spleen tissue using the Qiagen DNeasy tissue kit. Comparative genomic hybridizations were performed by Nimblegen Systems Madison Wis. in their Iceland manufacturing facilities using the Nimblegen RGSC 3.4 isothermal rat aCGH chip with 385 000 unique sequence features and a median probe density of 5303 bp. Tumor and Pirc spleen DNA from the same animal were labeled with Cy5 or Cy3 and reciprocal hybridizations were performed for both tumor samples. Pirc spleen DNA was also hybridized against wild type spleen DNA. CGH plots were generated using NimbleScan software and the data analyzed using SignalMap v1.8.

No allelic imbalance was detected over the entire genome of these tumors. shows aCGH analysis of colon tumor and normal genomes. Plots show the logratio y axis calculated over 250 kb windows for the entire rat genome RGSC 3.4 November 2004 build by chromosome x axis . The Pirc spleen and tumor samples were hybridized against each with Cy5 vs Cy3 labeling in both orientations. Tumors were determined to involve LOH by Pyrosequencing and calculated to be 70 80 pure. shows a Pirc spleen genomic DNA compared to wild type spleen DNA. No significant difference is seen between the two indicating the germline copy number variation. shows Pirc colon tumor genomic DNAs compared to spleen DNA from the same animal. Only one of the two labeling orientations is shown for each tumor. No statistically significant variation from the spleen was seen in either tumor sample.

The rat kindred for familial colon cancer of this invention has several features that can fuel investigations of colon cancer the location of tumors resembles that in the human the surface density of early neoplasms can reach the same level as in human FAP individuals dominant polymorphic modifiers exist in rat genomes and imaging by microCT and classical endoscopy gives access to statistically powerful longitudinal studies of tumor progression and regression.

Shown in Table 5 is an example of the use of a Pirc rat for screening a compound for carcinogenesis inhibitory activity. The effect of celecoxib on intestinal tumor multiplicity in F344 Pirc rats was tested. At about 40 days of age Pirc rats backcrossed with F344 Tac and F334 control rats were fed celecoxib at 1200 ppm diet. The rats were killed at about 22 weeks of age about 150 160 days of age . Necropsy was performed to identify 1 2 mm tumors in the intestines.

It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular devices methodology protocols subjects or reagents described and as such may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which is limited only by the claims. Other suitable modifications and adaptations of a variety of conditions and parameters normally encountered in clinical prevention and therapy obvious to those skilled in the art are within the scope of this invention. All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

