---

title: Method of communicating and associated transmitter using coded orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (COFDM)
abstract: A system and method communicates and generates a Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexed (COFDM) communications signal as a plurality of subcarriers. Selected subcarriers are turned ON and OFF while also frequency hopping and spreading the selected ON subcarriers over the frequency domain based on a fixed or variable sample rate to reduce average power for enhanced Low Probability of Interception/Low Probability of Detection (LPI/LPD) and also allow for more transmit power within a spectral mask.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860147&OS=07860147&RS=07860147
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 07860147
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060816
---
The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly this invention relates to multiple carrier communication systems including but not limited to Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM communications systems.

In OFDM communications systems the frequencies and modulation of a frequency division multiplexing FDM communications signal are arranged orthogonal with each other to eliminate interference between signals on each frequency. In this system low rate modulations with relatively long symbols compared to the channel time characteristics are less sensitive to multipath propagation issues. OFDM thus transmits a number of low symbol rate data streams on separate narrow frequency subbands using multiple frequencies simultaneously instead of transmitting a single high symbol rate stream on one wide frequency band on a single frequency. These multiple subbands have the advantage that the channel propagation effects are generally more constant over a given subband than over the entire channel as a whole. A classical In phase Quadrature I Q modulation can be transmitted over individual subbands. Also OFDM is typically used in conjunction with a Forward Error Correction scheme which in this instance is sometimes termed Coded Orthogonal FDM or COFDM.

An OFDM signal can be considered the sum of a number of orthogonal subcarrier signals with baseband data on each individual subcarrier independently modulated for example by Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM or Phase Shift Keying PSK . This baseband signal can also modulate a main RE carrier.

OFDM communications systems have high spectrum efficiency a high number of bits per second per Hz of bandwidth simple mitigation of multi path interference and an ease in filtering noise. OFDM communications systems suffer however from time variations in the channel especially those which cause carrier frequency offsets. Because the OFDM signal is the sum of a large number of subcarrier signals it can have a high peak to average amplitude or power ratio. It is also necessary to minimize intermodulation between subcarrier signals which can create self interference in band and create adjacent channel interference. Carrier phase noise Doppler frequency shifts and clock jitter can create Inter Carrier Interference ICI for closely frequency spaced subcarriers. The subcarriers are typically transmitted at assigned frequency locations within a transmission spectrum. Over the duration of the transmission of an OFDM signal the average power per subcarrier is significant and can be easily detected and intercepted which is undesirable to a system requiring Low Probability of Detection LPD and Low Probability of Interception LPI characteristics. The receiver that is to receive the OFDM signal requires a minimum signal to noise ratio SNR per subcarrier in order to demodulate and decode the signal with an acceptably low bit error rate BER . If there is other unwanted energy within the transmission spectrum the SNR can decrease causing an increase in BER. Said unwanted energy can be unintentional noise from other sources. In this case the noise is referred to as interference and the sources are referred to as interferers. If the unwanted energy corrupting the transmission is transmitted intentionally by some third party source known as a jammer it is referred to as a jamming signal. The conventional OFDM signal is susceptible to such interferers and jammers because of the required minimum SNR per subcarrier for an acceptably low BER. Further frequency selective fading in the channel causes transmission nulls within the OFDM signal s transmission spectrum which selectively reduce the SNR on certain subcarriers within those nulls depending on their frequency location leading to an undesirable increase in BER.

A system and method communicates and generates a Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexed COFDM communications signal as a plurality of subcarriers Selected subcarriers are turned ON and OFF while also frequency hopping and spreading the selected ON subcarriers over the frequency domain based on a fixed or variable sample rate to reduce average power for enhanced Low Probability of Interception Low Probability of Detection LPI LPD and also allow for more transmit power within a spectral mask.

In yet another aspect a selective channel system can be applied for enhancing channel state information CSI techniques. A spreading function can be applied followed by an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT to spread the subcarriers over the frequency domain. A Walsh Transform can be applied as a spreading function. The number of subcarriers can be reduced as compared to the IFFT size to spread the sequence length for increased processing gain and reduced average power per frequency. A sample rate can be increased to increase bandwidth and data rate.

In yet another aspect the guard interval can be reduced or eliminated. A pseudo random signal can be based on an encryption algorithm for frequency hopping any subcarriers A reduced Inter Carrier Interference ICI can transmit subcarriers such that any OFDM symbols do not transmit subcarriers on adjacent frequencies. The Inter Symbol Interference ISI can be reduced by transmitting subcarriers such that consecutive OFDM symbols do not transmit subcarriers on the same frequencies.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The system apparatus and method in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention uses a Symbol Based Randomization SBR Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM communications signal to enhance the Low Probability of Interception LPI and Low Probability of Detection LPD . This signal also allows an increased transmit power within a Federal Communications Commission FCC spectral mask by reducing the average power per Hertz per second while maintaining the same instantaneous signal to noise ratio SNR . A frequency domain spreading function such as the Walsh transform can also be applied in the frequency domain to enhance performance.

Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM is also termed Multicarrier Modulation MCM because the signal uses multiple carrier signals that are transmitted at different frequencies. Some of the bits or symbols normally transmitted on one channel or carrier are now transmitted by this system on multiple carriers in the channel. Advanced Digital Signal Processing DSP techniques distribute the data over multiple carriers subcarriers at predetermined frequencies. For example if the lowest frequency subcarrier uses a base frequency the other subcarriers could be integer multiples of that base frequency. The particular relationship among the subcarriers is considered the orthogonality such that the energy from one subcarrier can appear at a frequency where all other subcarrier s energy equal zero. There can be a superposition of frequencies in the same frequency range. This results in a lower symbol rate on each subcarrier with less Inter Symbol Interference ISI due to adverse effects of multipath. In many OFDM communications systems a Guard Interval GI or Cyclic Prefix CP is prefixed or appended to the OFDM symbol to mitigate the effects of ISI.

The drawings in show that OFDM is based on a frequency division multiplexing FDM system where each frequency channel is modulated. The frequencies and modulation of an FDM system are now orthogonal to each other to eliminate interference between channels. Because low rate modulations with relatively long symbols compared to the channel time characteristics are less sensitive to multipath an OFDM communications system allows a number of low rate symbol streams to be transmitted simultaneously on multiple carriers rather than having one high rate symbol stream transmitted on a single carrier. Thus the frequency spectrum in an OFDM communications system is divided into multiple low bandwidth subbands. Since each subband covers a relatively narrow section of the frequency spectrum channel propagation effects are more constant or flat over a given subband compared to channel variations over the entire occupied spectrum. Any type of in phase and quadrature I Q modulation can be used to modulate any subcarrier for example Binary Phase Shift Keying BPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK or Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM or any of the numerous and different derivations of these modulation schemes Different signal processing techniques for example channel coding power allocation adaptive modulation encoding and similar schemes can be applied to one or more subbands. Multi user allocation is also possible for example using time coding or frequency separation.

In an OFDM communications system using a transmitter and receiver such as shown in one transmitter will transmit a signal on dozens or thousands of different orthogonal frequencies that are independent with respect to the relative amplitude and phase relationship between the frequencies. Each subcarrier signal typically will have space for only a single narrowband signal because the signals are closely spaced and it is important to prevent signals on adjacent subcarriers from interfering with each other. In an OFDM system the symbols on each subcarrier are constructed such that energy from their frequency components are zero at the center of every other subcarrier enabling a higher spectral efficiency for OFDM symbols than is possible in classic FDM.

The OFDM system as shown in includes channel coding as a Forward Error Correction FEC technique using a Forward Error Correction encoder to create a coded orthogonal FDM COFDM signal. Channel State Information CSI techniques can also be employed including continuous wave CW interferer and or selective channel systems.

An OFDM signal is typically the sum of each of the orthogonal subcarriers. Baseband data is independently modulated onto each of the orthogonal subcarriers using some type of modulation such as Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM or Phase Shift Keying PSK schemes as discussed before. Because the spectrum of each subcarrier overlaps it can be considerably wider than if no overlap were allowed. Thus OFDM provides high spectrum efficiency. Because each subcarrier operates at a low symbol rate the duration of each symbol in the subcarrier is long. For clarity symbol rate is equal to the inverse of symbol duration . By using Forward Error Correction FEC equalization and modulation there can be an enhanced resistance against a link dispersion b slowly changing phase distortion and fading c frequency response nulls d constant interference and e burst noise. Further the use of a Guard Interval GI or cyclic prefix provides enhanced resistance against multipath in the transmission channel.

Typically in OFDM communications system a subcarrier and somewhat rectangular pulse can be employed and operative by an Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform IDFT using an Inverse Fast Fourier Transform IFFT circuit within the transmitter. At a receiver a Fast Fourier Transform FFT circuit reverses this operation. The rectangular pulse shape results in a Sin x x spectrum in the subcarriers.

The spacing of subcarriers can be chosen such that the received subcarriers can cause zero or acceptably low Inter Carrier Interference ICI when the receiver and transmitter are synchronized Typically OFDM communications systems split the available bandwidth into many narrow band subbands from as little as a few dozen to as many as eight thousand to ten thousand Unlike the communications system providing multiple channels using classical FDM as in the subcarriers for each subband in OFDM are orthogonal to each other and have close spacing and little overhead. In an OFDM communications system there is also little overhead associated with any switching that may occur between users as in a Time Division Multiplexing Access TDMA communications system. Usually the orthogonality of subcarriers in an OFDM communications system allows each carrier to have an integer number of cycles over a symbol period. As a result the spectrum of a subcarrier has a null at the center frequency of its adjacent subcarriers

Usually in an OFDM communications system the spectrum required for transmitting data is chosen based on the input data and a desired modulation scheme to be used with each carrier that is assigned the data to transmit. Any amplitude and phase of the carrier is calculated based on the modulation for example BPSK QPSK or QAM as noted before. Any required spectrum is converted using the IFFT circuit to ensure carrier signals are orthogonal.

It should be understood that a FFT circuit transforms a cyclic time domain signal to an equivalent frequency spectrum by finding an equivalent waveform that is generated as a sum of orthogonal sinusoidal components. The frequency spectrum of the time domain signal is usually represented by the amplitude and phase sinusoidal components. The IFFT circuit performs the reverse process and transforms the spectrum of the amplitude and phase into a time domain signal. For example an IFFT circuit can convert a set of complex data points into a time domain signal of the same number of points. Each complex input point will result in an integral number of sinusoid and cosinusoid cycles represented by the same number of points as were input to the IFFT. Each sinusoid known as the in phase component and cosinusoid known as the quadrature component will be orthogonal to all other components generated by the IFFT. Thus orthogonal carriers can be generated by setting an amplitude and phase for each frequency point representing a desired subcarrier frequency and performing the IFFT.

It should be understood that a Guard Interval GI also termed a cyclic prefix often is added to an OFDM symbol. The guard interval reduces the effects of the wireless channel on Inter Symbol Interference ISI and contains redundant transmission information. Referring to the IEEE 802.11a standard as a non limiting example if a carrier spacing is 312.5 KHz and the Fourier Transforms are performed over 3.2 microseconds then a 0.8 microsecond guard interval can be applied for ISI rejection. The guard interval could be the last Tseconds of an active symbol period that is prefixed to an OFDM symbol making it a cyclic prefix. It is kept short for a fraction of T corresponding to the total length of the active symbol yet longer than the channel impulse response. This helps reduce the ISI and Inter Carrier Interference ICI and maintains subcarrier orthogonality. In this example a time waveform appears periodic to the receiver over the duration of the FFT.

To reduce ICI the OFDM symbol can be cyclically extended in the guard time to ensure that delayed replicas of the OFDM symbol can have an integer number of cycles within the FFT interval as long as the delay is smaller than the guard time. As a result multipath signals with delays smaller than the guard time would not produce ICI.

Multipath interference is caused when multiple copies of the transmitted signal arrive at the receiver at different times. It should be understood that an OFDM communications system reduces the effect of multipath interference by providing the ability to add signal redundancy in both frequency and time by the use of various coding algorithms. For example with the IEEE 802.11a standard using OFDM 48 carriers can be transmitted simultaneously. The coding gain can be provided using a one half convolutional encoder at the transmitter and later a Viterbi decoder. Data bits can be interleaved across multiple symbols and carriers. Lost data often is recoverable because of interleaving across the frequency and time space.

Increasing the data rate requires an increase in the symbol rate for a fixed number of carriers fixed modulation scheme and fixed sample rate. For a single carrier system complex equalizers and adaptive filters are required at the receiver to compensate for the magnitude and time distortions caused by the channel. The accuracy and dynamic range required of such equalizers and filters increases markedly as symbol times are decreased. However in an OFDM system for example when 48 subcarriers are transmitted simultaneously the symbol rate is effectively reduced by 48 times significantly reducing the requirements of channel equalizers and filters. The reduced symbol rate of an OFDM system enables a robust communication link resistant to ISI.

It should be understood that an OFDM receiver receives a sum of the different signals as subcarriers. The addition of a guard interval can further enhance performance in an OFDM system by ensuring that no symbol transitions occur during each received symbol time. For example if an OFDM subcarrier is BPSK modulated there would be a 180 degree phase jump at symbol boundaries. By choosing a guard interval that is longer than the largest expected time difference between the first and last multipath signals such phase transitions can occur only during the guard time meaning there are no phase transitions during the FFT interval. If the phase transitions of a delayed path occur within the FFT interval of the receiver then the summation of the subcarriers of the first path with the phase modulated waves of the delayed path would no longer produce a set of orthogonal subcarriers resulting in a certain level of interference.

As discussed above OFDM communications systems can use FEC techniques and known interleaving and mapping techniques before IFFT processing as shown in and demapping and deinterleaving techniques followed by FEC decoding after FFT processing as shown in

These interleaving coding e.g. convolutional codes including puncturing and deinterleaving and decoding and related techniques often are integral parts of OFDM communications systems. As an example a rate K 7 convolutional code can be used as an industry standard code for forward error correction FEC during encoding. For purposes of understanding the present invention a more detailed description of these basic system components now follows. A convolutional code is an error correcting code and usually has three parameters n k m with n equal to the number of output bits k equal to the number of input bits and m equal to the number of memory registers in one non limiting example. The quantity k n could be called the code rate with this definition and is a measure of the efficiency of the code. K and n parameters range typically from 1 to 8 m ranges typically from 2 to 10 and the code rate typically ranges from to in non limiting examples. Sometimes convolutional code chips are specified by parameters n k L with L equal to the constraint length of the code. Thus the constraint length can represent the number of bits in an encoder memory that would affect the generation of n output bits Sometimes the letters may be switched depending on the definitions used.

The transformation of the encoded data is a function of the information symbols and the constraint length of the code. Single bit input codes can produce punctured codes that give different code rates. For example when a rate code is used the transmission of a subset of the output bits of the encoder can convert the rate code into a rate code. Thus one hardware circuit or module can produce codes of different rates. Punctured codes can be used also which allow rates to be changed dynamically through software or hardware depending on channel conditions such as rain or other channel impairing conditions.

An encoder for a convolutional code typically uses a Linear Feedback Shift Register LFSR or look up table LUT for encoding which usually includes an input bit as well as a number of previous input bits known as the state of the encoder the table value being the output bit or bits of the encoder. It is possible to view the encoder function as a state diagram a tree diagram or a trellis diagram.

Decoding systems for convolutional codes can use 1 sequential decoding or 2 maximum likelihood decoding such as Viterbi decoding in one non limiting example which typically is more desirable. Sequential decoding allows both forward and backward movement through the trellis. Viterbi decoding as maximum likelihood decoding examines a receive sequence of given length computes a metric for each path and makes a decision based on the metric. Turbo codes are another example of a forward error correction scheme that can be used.

Puncturing convolutional codes is a common practice in some OFDM systems and can be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. It should be understood that in some examples a punctured convolutional code is a higher rate code obtained by the periodic elimination of specific logic bits or symbols from the output of a low rate encoder Punctured convolutional code performance can be degraded compared with original codes but typically the data rate increases.

Some of the basic components that could be used as non limiting examples of the present invention include the transmitter as described before that incorporates a convolutional encoder which encodes a sequence of binary input vectors to produce the sequence of binary output vectors and can be defined using a trellis structure. An interleaver for example a block interleaver can permute the bits of the output vectors. The interleaved data would also be modulated at the transmitter by mapping to transmit symbols and transmitted. At a receiver a demodulator demodulates the signal.

A block deinterleaver recovers the bits that were interleaved. A Viterbi decoder could decode the deinterleaved bit soft decisions to produce binary output data.

Often a Viterbi forward error correction module or core is used that would include a convolutional encoder and Viterbi decoder as part of a radio modem or transceiver as described above. For example if the constraint length of the convolutional code is 7 the encoder and Viterbi decoder could support selectable code rates of 6 7 using industry standard puncturing algorithms.

Different design and block systems parameters could include the constraint length as a number of input bits over which the convolutional code is computed and a convolutional code rate as the ratio of the input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncturing rate could include a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using the puncturing process for example derived from a rate code.

The Viterbi decoder parameters could include the convolutional code rate as a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncture rate could be the ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using a puncturing process and can be derived from a rate mother code. The input bits could be the number of processing bits for the decoder. The Viterbi input width could be the width of input data i.e. soft decisions to the Viterbi decoder. A metric register length could be the width of registers storing the metrics. A trace back depth could be the length of path required by the Viterbi decoder to compute the most likely decoded bit value. The size of the memory storing the path metrics information for the decoding process could be the memory size. In some instances a Viterbi decoder could include a First In First Out FIFO buffer between depuncture and Viterbi function blocks or modules. The Viterbi output width could be the width of input data to the Viterbi decoder

The encoder could include a puncturing block circuit or module as noted above. Usually a convolutional encoder may have a constraint length of 7 and take the form of a shift register with a number of elements for example 6. One bit can be input for each clock cycle. Thus the output bits could be defined by a combination of shift register elements using a standard generator code and be concatenated to form an encoded output sequence. There could be a serial or parallel byte data interface at the input. The output width could be programmable depending on the punctured code rate of the application.

A Viterbi decoder in non limiting examples could divide the input data stream into blocks and estimate the most likely data sequence. Each decoded data sequence could be output in a burst. The input and calculations can be continuous and require four clock cycles for every two bits of data in one non limiting example. An input FIFO can be dependent on a depuncture input data rate.

Also turbo codes could be used as high performance error correction codes or low density parity check codes that approach the Shannon limit as the theoretical limit of maximum information transfer rate over a noisy channel. Thus some available bandwidth can be increased without increasing the power of the transmission. Instead of producing binary digits from the signal the front end of the decoder could be designed to produce a likelihood measure for each bit.

It should be understood that OFDM coded transmissions may be easily detected and received by unintended recipients by detection of data subcarriers and pilot tones. Addition of multiple sine waves or carriers with random amplitudes and phases to the waveform will cause it to approach a Gaussian distribution due to the central limit theorem. A signal having a Gaussian random distribution inherently has an enhanced Low Probability of Interception LPI and Low Probability of Detection LPD because it appears similar to additive white Gaussian noise AWGN to a receiver.

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention a modified transmitter as explained in detail below uses an IFFT to create multiple subcarriers located at specific frequencies. Only a small subset of the possible carriers need to be used at any one time to enhance power reduce ICI and enhance LPI and LPD. Subcarrier center frequencies can be changed at OFDM symbol times according to an encryption algorithm. Such an algorithm can generate a pseudo random frequency hopping sequence and frequency hopping subcarriers in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. Thus fast frequency hopping can change the subcarriers frequency for each OFDM symbol and provide a one thousand 1 000 times faster frequency hopping than the Bluetooth standard and ten times its data rate. Additional benefits can include a reduced ICI a reduced ISI and reduced transmitter overhead from the guard interval. The system apparatus and method in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention allows a symbol based randomization for the OFDM signal.

A Walsh transform can be applied to spread subcarriers over the frequency domain in contrast with spreading over the time domain as with conventional CDMA systems. Applying a Walsh transform before any IFFT circuit can reduce average power for enhanced LPI LPD. Various aspects of the communications system can be readily varied for improved performance. With fewer subcarriers as compared to the IFFT size and the spreading sequence length more processing gain may be realized from frequency domain spreading. Furthermore LPI LPD and Anti Jamming AJ performance can be enhanced and there can be higher SNR per subcarrier.

Increasing the sample rate also increases the bandwidth data rate and improves the LPI LPD AJ performance.

Referring now to there are illustrated respective functional block diagrams for a transmitter and a receiver that can be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. The transmitter as illustrated applies a frequency hopping algorithm to OFDM subcarriers and a frequency domain spreader for example a Walsh transform before an IFFT circuit.

Many of the high level components of the illustrated transmitter and receiver are functionally similar to the components shown in the prior art modem of but with further details and functional block components added to the transmitter and receiver block diagrams shown in . For reference purposes the description for the transmitter begins with the reference numerals in the series and the description for the receiver begins with reference numerals in the series.

Added functional components that aid in generating the frequency hopping OFDM signal that can be Walsh transformed in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention include a Pseudo Random Amplitude and Phase Generator and Pseudo Random Subcarrier Locations circuit . A circuit is operative for reducing the number of subcarriers. Both the Generator and circuit are operative with an Encryption Algorithm and a Cryptographic and Key generator circuit Crypto Key and Master Clock . These components can be generally referred to as an encrypted pseudo random signal generator. A Frequency Domain Spreader circuit is located before an IFFT circuit as illustrated and is operable for frequency spreading the signal such as by applying a Walsh transform. Also a digital analog converter can receive a signal from a Bandwidth Adjust DAC Sample Rate circuit for removing spectral lines. These components are explained in further detail below.

As illustrated in a signal is received within a data buffer and passes through a CRC generator and data scrambler . An FEC encoder circuit shown by the dashed lines at can include a Forward Error Correction encoder for example a convolutional encoder and puncturer circuit . The encoded signal is interleaved within an interleaver circuit . The signal passes into a modulation and symbol mapping circuit shown generally by the dashed lines at . This modulation and symbol mapping circuit includes a QAM PSK modulator and Insert Pilot Carriers and PAPR Reduction Carriers circuit that inserts pilot carriers and PAPR reduction carriers into the signal. PAPR in this example corresponds to Peak to Average Power Ratio. Carriers are mapped to the IFFT in a matrix operation in a subcarrier mapper circuit .

The Encryption Algorithm is operative not only with the Crypto Key circuit and the Master Clock but also the Pseudo Random Amplitude and Phase Generator which generates pseudo random signals to the QAM PSK Modulator in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. The Pseudo Random Subcarrier Location circuit is also operative with the Subcarrier Mapper circuit and receives signals from the Encryption Algorithm . The OFDM Subcarriers are frequency hopped quickly by means of such circuits.

In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention the Frequency Domain Spreader circuit is located before the IFFT circuit and applies the Walsh transform in the frequency domain. If the Frequency Domain Spreader circuit were located after the IFFT circuit then the Walsh or other function would force a time domain spreading. It should be understood that the Frequency Domain Spreader circuit and IFFT circuit can typically be considered with the modulation and mapping circuit as an OFDM modulation circuit or OFDM modulation and mapping circuit. In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention the spreading resulting from application of the Walsh transform occurs in the frequency domain. A cyclic extension as a guard interval can be added within a Cyclic Extension circuit . A symbol shaping filter such as a Finite Impulse Response FIR filter cosine filter or raised cosine filter can be operative as a Time Window for symbol shaping in conjunction with the Cyclic Extensions. A packet buffer receives the signals and after buffering the signals are converted to analog signals in a digital analog converter . The D A converter also receives from a Bandwidth Adjust DAC Sample Rate circuit a signal for further processing that removes spectral lines. The D A Converter passes signals to a Radio Integrated Circuit IC Wideband Slow Frequency Hopping circuit . The RF carrier can be subjected to a pseudo random frequency hopping algorithm for enhanced bandwidth and is operative also as a frequency up converter as illustrated.

Basic components of the frequency up converter circuit can include a transmit chain circuit that receives the signal into a mixer . The signal passes through a Bandpass Filter a series of amplifiers and through a Single Pole Double Throw SPDT switch . After switching a low pass filter filters the signal. The radio frequency signal is amplified by the Power Amplifier for subsequent transmission through antenna . Other components in the circuit include a Phased Lock Loop circuit a 40 MHz signal generator as a non limiting example a low pass filter an amplifier a synthesizer another amplifier a bandpass filter a summer circuit and another amplifier that connects to the mixer . The component parts of frequency upconverter circuit may be used to affect a low rate frequency hopping scheme where the entire OFDM baseband waveform is frequency translated to different center frequencies. Such slow frequency hopping can further guard against interference and provide an additional level of encryption if the slow hopping sequence is designed as such.

The transmitter as described is a non limiting example and many other types of transmitters could be used. It should be understood that with advances in DSP and other circuit functions processing can possibly occur directly at baseband.

It should also be understood that the subcarrier mapper circuit maps carriers to the IFFT circuit . For example if the IFFT circuit has an input with a 64 sample signal in the frequency domain it would give a 64 sample signal in the time domain as a matrix operation. The subcarrier mapper circuit can change the order of the vectors to position symbols on arbitrary subcarriers and apply zero to other subcarriers. For example some of the samples in a 64 sample vector would be zeros meaning they would not show up in the frequency domain if they are OFF. Any that are ON or non zero will change location with every IFFT cycle once per symbol to produce the frequency hopping OFDM signal. The nature of the frequency hopping for the OFDM signal is generated by the Encryption Algorithm and the Pseudo Random Subcarrier Locations circuit and the Pseudo Random Amplitude and Phase Generator . The QAM PSK Modulator aids in producing the constellation amplitude and phase.

One of the aspects of this invention involves obscuring to an unintended receiver that the data has been encrypted. To obscure the encryption three unknowns are produced by the transmitter. For example there is a the unknown of the transmitted amplitude and phase b the unknown of the pseudo random amplitude and phase and c the unknown of the channel amplitude and phase. Because there are three unknowns it is not possible to know which signal is transmitted with an encryption algorithm based on the Cryptographic Key and Master Clock.

The Frequency Domain Spreader circuit operates as a matrix operation. For example if a 64 IFFT circuit is employed then a 64 64 Walsh Matrix as a non limiting example can be used to frequency spread the subcarriers and provide processing gain. An input vector would be multiplied by the Walsh matrix. It should be understood that a Walsh matrix is a square matrix with dimensions that can be a power of two. The entries are positive or negative one 1 1 . The Walsh matrix can be obtained from a Hadamard Matrix that is defined by a recursive formula of the same dimension by arranging rows such that the number of sign changes is in increasing order i.e. sequential ordering. Each row of a Walsh matrix corresponds to a Walsh function. The ordering of rows in a Walsh matrix can be derived from ordering a Hadamard matrix by applying a bit reversal permutation and a Gray code permutation. The Walsh functions form an orthogonal basis of a square that is integratable on a unit interval. Thus it can generate statistically unique sets of numbers suitable for use in encryption also known as pseudo random and noise codes. The multiplication may be implemented efficiently as a series of additions and subtractions.

The Bandwidth Adjust DAC Sample Rate circuit is operative with the D A converter and can adjust the sample rate and remove spectral lines. As a result it is harder to detect the waveform with a Spectrogram. It should be understood that the transmitter as described is operative to form a Frequency Hopping OFDM signal with a Walsh transform. For example if an IFFT is used with 64 samples per symbol the frequency location of each subcarrier can be changed every 64 samples. As an example if an IFFT is computed every four microseconds then frequency hopping on all 64 carriers can occur every four microseconds to impart a fast hopping rate. Because this can be accomplished symbol by symbol the frequency hopping OFDM communications system as described can also be termed a Symbol Based Randomized OFDM because the subcarrier frequency locations are randomly changed. Another receiver would not be able to determine the subcarrier locations without the Encryption Algorithm and related circuits and a full synchronization.

Other high level components illustrated for this receiver circuit include an antenna a low noise amplifier LNA and Radio Integrated circuit down converter which can process a frequency hopping carrier signal in reverse if it had been processed for wideband by the Radio IC Wideband Slow Frequency Hopping circuit shown in the transmitter of . The Analog Digital Converter receives an IF or baseband signal from the down converter and a signal from the Bandwidth Adjust ADC Sample Rate circuit and reverses the process used at the transmitter . The signal is forwarded to the Data Buffer and Symbol Based Subcarrier Synchronization circuit which synchronizes the subcarriers for further processing. The Guard Interval circuit removes the guard interval and the signal is processed with the Fast Fourier Transform as an OFDM demodulator in an FFT circuit . The Inverse Walsh Transform is applied in an Inverse Walsh Transform circuit . A subcarrier demapper and demodulation circuit is shown by dashed lines at and performs an inverse mapping operation to the subcarriers in subcarrier demapper circuit removes the pilot tones in a pilot remove circuit and demodulates the signal in a Symbol to Number QAM PSK Demodulator circuit . The deinterleaver circuit deinterleaves the signal. A decoding circuit is shown by dashed lines at and is operative for depuncturing within depuncture circuit and Forward Error Correction FEC decoding such as Viterbi decoding within a FEC decoder such as a Viterbi decoder . Data descrambling occurs at a Data Descrambler followed by data buffering in data buffer and processing for a CRC check by CRC circuit .

The transmitter and receiver shown in can generate and receive a signal that is a fast carrier frequency hopping signal. This hopping can be much faster than a conventional Bluetooth system that hops frequencies at 1600 hops second over a 80 MHz radio frequency bandwidth using a single carrier having a 1 MHz bandwidth. It should also be understood for example as shown in the graphs of that a change in signal to noise ratio S N can be based on the number of subcarriers and can be used as a method of varying the range of the instantaneous subcarrier signal to noise ratio versus that data rate in an adaptive wireless communications system.

For example the receiver could measure the received Signal to Noise ratio per subcarrier for example by using channel estimation symbols a preamble or a special channel estimation packet. Information can be passed back to the transmitter as a channel mask specifying the number of subcarriers to turn off and the possible frequency locations of interferers as channel impairments such that the transmitter could use the negotiated channel mask to avoid transmission on any undesirable frequencies. In one example ten carriers are turned on simultaneously over a 100 MHz bandwidth and each carrier is transmitted for 640 nanoseconds corresponding to a 1 FFT rate such that each carrier can hop 1 562 500 times per second. This is about a one thousand times faster hopping than the Bluetooth protocol and can provide more than ten times the data rate.

The transmitter can create multiple subcarriers located at specific frequencies and can generate a pseudo random frequency hop for each subcarrier frequency by applying the frequency hopping algorithm as explained before. The IFFT circuit creates multiple subcarriers located at specific frequencies. In accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention only a small subset of all possible subcarriers need to be used at any one time although all subcarriers can be used if necessary. For example as in the example discussed above instead of 64 subcarriers only 10 subcarriers can be used in this non limiting example giving in that example the 1 562 500 hops per second.

The subcarrier center frequencies can be changed at the OFDM symbol rate using the encryption algorithm for the pseudo random frequencies. This occurs at the modulation and mapping circuit in which the carriers are mapped to the IFFT. The center frequencies of the subcarriers can appear random because of the frequency hopping algorithm. The symbol time duration can be very short as noted above and therefore each subcarrier would appear for a short time at any specific frequency.

The guard time can be reduced or eliminated by ensuring that consecutive symbols do not contain subcarriers at the same frequency location. For example in prior art systems if two symbols are back to back on the same frequency multipath signals could arrive at different times at the same location. By using the system and circuits shown in these signals do not appear on the same frequency and the signal would typically not be affected by multipath thus preventing Inter Symbol Interference ISI and substantially reducing required guard time reducing transmission overhead and increasing data rate.

It is possible using the transmitter and receiver as shown in to eliminate or substantially reduce guard time e.g. guard interval. Also it should be understood that an additional guard can be added by modifying the frequency hopping algorithm such that no frequency can be used twice in a row for consecutive symbols and thereby preventing Inter Symbol Interference ISI because of multipath channel effects. As noted before this eliminates or substantially reduces the required guard interval reduces transmission overhead and increases the data rate.

It is also possible to dynamically add and remove subcarriers depending on the required data rate. The minimum carrier spacing can increase to reduce the Inter Carrier Interference ICI and provide robustness to jamming i.e. anti jamming AJ capability because of the frequency hopping signal. As long as carriers are not transmitted next to each other in the frequency domain the Inter Carrier Interference will be reduced.

It is also possible for the carrier frequency to hop pseudo randomly and cover a wide bandwidth. This can be accomplished by the Radio IC Wideband Slow Frequency Hopping circuit shown in and operative as a frequency up converter circuit.

A dead time pseudo random generator can be introduced into the system to decrease on time and the output spacing between symbols can be increased. The spacing can be varied using the pseudo random generator to prevent spectral lines and reduce cyclostationary statistics of the signal. This type of system can be implemented without an output sample control. The system can wait a random amount of time before transmitting. By removing the spectral lines it is more difficult for other systems to detect the transmitted communications. The term cyclostationary can refer to the mean standard deviation as a second order statistic of the signal. The output sample control can refer to control at the D A Converter .

The subcarrier constellation amplitude and phase values can also be varied pseudo randomly using the generator operative with the modulator as shown in . For example pseudo random amplitude and phase values can be generated using the encryption algorithm. The pseudo random amplitude and phase values can be added to the intended amplitude and phase values before transmission. By adding the pseudo random amplitude and phase values to each subcarrier the symbol constellation is no longer a standard QAM PSK. If the transmitter signal is detected by an unintended receiver that receiver would not be able to demodulate the signal because there would be too many unknowns. For example the transmitted or intended amplitude and phase would be an unknown together with the pseudo random amplitude and phase that is added to the signal and a further unknown being the channel amplitude and phase for the multipath. This results in three unknowns. The pseudo random amplitude and phase values would appear as a typical random channel effect to the unauthorized or unintended receiver.

It should be understood that these algorithms can be added to Software Defined Radios SDR and can be implemented with some changes to vary data rate and modulation. The data rates bandwidth transmission power and LPI LPD performance can be improved by varying the subcarrier modulation schemer sample rate IFFT size IFFT duration and the number of subcarriers used per OFDM symbol.

As shown in a Walsh transform can be applied in the frequency domain for frequency spreading since it is applied before the IFFT circuit using the Frequency Domain Spreader circuit . It is known that Walsh transforms are typically used in communications systems such as CDMA for time domain spreading and for creating orthogonal codes for multiple access schemes. The Walsh Transform can be used in the system apparatus and method of the present invention to spread subcarriers over the frequency domain. This can provide a significant reduction in the average power dBm Hz sec for enhanced LPI LPD performance allowing more transmit power within the same FCC spectral mask and reducing the effect of Frequency Selective Fading by providing a frequency domain processing gain. It also provides additional anti jamming AJ robustness. Also out of band noise OBN emissions can be reduced similar to time windowing because of the steeper roll off caused by the Walsh transform. The Walsh transform as a matrix is made up of only positive and negative ones 1 1 and requires only additions and subtractions and no multiplications. This would allow a trade off for the number of carriers versus the data rate versus the transmit power and distance for the same FCC spectral mask. In the Walsh transform matrix rows can be exchanged with each other. The transform would still be orthogonal at the receiver . These row permutations can be performed to increase further the LPI.

It should be understood that OFDM is susceptible to Frequency Selective Fading because of multipath. The Walsh transform can provide processing gain to the system and robustness against frequency selective fading

The system apparatus and method as described provides a very fast frequency hopping by changing subcarrier frequency locations for example at the OFDM symbol rate. Thus it can provide a reduced spectral density over time decibel hertz second in order to provide a Low Probability of Interception LPI and Low Probability of Detection LPD . The system as described is much faster than Bluetooth systems and makes the transmission within the FCC spectral mask possible at greater distances. It also eliminates or substantially reduces a guard interval by ensuring that subcarriers do not appear on the same frequency for consecutive OFDM symbols. The system also provides robustness against Inter Symbol Interference ISI due to multipath. The Walsh transform can be applied in the frequency domain to spread the frequency hopping subcarriers over the spectrum and reduce the power spectral density decibels over hertz to improve LPI LDP performance or help comply with FCC spectral mask requirements. It can also provide a processing gain against frequency selective fading and provide robustness against jamming.

Referring now to there are shown a spectral comparison between a conventional single carrier waveform and the symbol base randomized frequency hopping subcarriers. As shown in the upper graph the frequency is on the horizontal axis and the relative power in decibels is on the vertical axis. A spectrum is shown at baseband and the average intensity is illustrated together with the 30 decibel LPD improvement over a conventional system. More power can now be transmitted within the same FCC spectral mask. It is possible for a radio station or other transmitter that transmits digital data to frequency hop its OFDM signal and reduce the average power in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

An example of a communications system that can be modified for use with the present invention is now set forth with regard to .

An example of a radio that can be used with such system and method is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. The Falcon III can include a basic transmit switch and other functional switches and controls known to those skilled in the art. It should be understood that different radios can be used including but not limited to software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement desired communication waveforms. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms to the software communications architecture SCA specification which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that would benefit from the present invention is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The HF radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples. A vocoder voice encoder decoder circuit can incorporate the encode and decode functions and a conversion unit which can be a combination of the various circuits as described or a separate circuit. A transmit key switch is operative as explained above. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. The circuits referenced here may include any combination of software and or hardware elements including but not limited to general purpose microprocessors and associated software specialized microprocessors for digital signal processing and their associated software Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs logic circuits or other kinds of devices and or software or firmware known to those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways . These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators. The packetized or non packetized digital voice information transmitted within the network using the techniques of the present invention can originate at or be delivered to a handset connected to one of the radios a telephone or other interface device attached to a wireless gateway device such as the RF 6010 Tactical Network Hub or a subscriber telephone connected to the PABX or within the public switched telephone network.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network can operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages can be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety can be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment includes RF5800 5022 7210 5710 6010 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance HF radio circuits at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps or higher with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

This application is related to copending patent applications entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING DATA USING SYMBOL BASED RANDOMIZED ORTHOGONAL FREQUENCY DIVISION MULTIPLEXING OFDM and SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR APPLYING FREQUENCY DOMAIN SPREADING TO MULTI CARRIER COMMUNICATIONS SIGNALS and SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING DATA USING SYMBOL BASED RANDOMIZED ORTHOGONAL FREQUENCY DIVISION MULTIPLEXING OFDM WITH APPLIED FREQUENCY DOMAIN SPREADING and SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMMUNICATING DATA USING SYMBOL BASED RANDOMIZED ORTHOGONAL FREQUENCY DIVISION MULTIPLEXING OFDM WITH SELECTED SUBCARRIERS TURNED ON OR OFF which are filed on the same date and by the same assignee and inventors the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

