---

title: Selective androgen receptor modulators and methods of use thereof
abstract: This invention provides a class of androgen receptor targeting agents. The agents define a new subclass of compounds, which are selective androgen receptor modulators (SARM).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07919647&OS=07919647&RS=07919647
owner: University of Tennessee Research Foundation
number: 07919647
owner_city: Knoxville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060216
---
This Application is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 220 414 filed Sep. 7 2005 which is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 146 427 filed Jun. 7 2005 which is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 380 filed Oct. 12 2004 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 510 138 filed Oct. 14 2003 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 861 923 filed Jun. 7 2004 which is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 310 150 filed Dec. 5 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 547 728 which claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 336 185 filed Dec. 6 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 353 225 filed Feb. 14 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 518 013 which is a Continuation In Part Application of Ser. No. 11 125 159 filed May 10 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 205 437 which is a Continuation In Part Application of Ser. No. 11 062 752 filed Feb. 23 2005 which is a Continuation In Part Application Ser. No. 10 863 524 filed Jun. 9 2004 now abandoned which is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 371 213 filed Feb. 24 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 026 500 which is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 270 232 filed Oct. 15 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 484 which is a Continuation In Part Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 935 045 filed Aug. 23 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 569 896 which claims priority of United States Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 300 083 filed Jun. 25 2001 and United States Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 367 355 filed Aug. 24 2000 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under grant number R29 CA068096 awarded by the National Cancer Institute National Institute of Health and under grant number R15 HD35329 awarded by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development National Institute of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a novel class of androgen receptor targeting agents ARTA which demonstrate androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. The agents define a new subclass of compounds which are selective androgen receptor modulators SARMs useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM c treatment of conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Female ADIF d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

The androgen receptor AR is a ligand activated transcriptional regulatory protein that mediates induction of male sexual development and function through its activity with endogenous androgens. Androgens are generally known as the male sex hormones. The androgenic hormones are steroids which are produced in the body by the testes and the cortex of the adrenal gland or can be synthesized in the laboratory. Androgenic steroids play an important role in many physiologic processes including the development and maintenance of male sexual characteristics such as muscle and bone mass prostate growth spermatogenesis and the male hair pattern Matsumoto Endocrinol. Met. Clin. N. Am. 23 857 75 1994 . The endogenous steroidal androgens include testosterone and dihydrotestosterone DHT . Testosterone is the principal steroid secreted by the testes and is the primary circulating androgen found in the plasma of males. Testosterone is converted to DHT by the enzyme 5 alpha reductase in many peripheral tissues. DHT is thus thought to serve as the intracellular mediator for most androgen actions Zhou et al. Molec. Endocrinol. 9 208 18 1995 . Other steroidal androgens include esters of testosterone such as the cypionate propionate phenylpropionate cyclopentylpropionate isocarporate enanthate and decanoate esters and other synthetic androgens such as 7 Methyl Nortestosterone MENT and its acetate ester Sundaram et al. 7 Alpha Methyl Nortestosterone MENT The Optimal Androgen For Male Contraception Ann. Med. 25 199 205 1993 Sundaram . Because the AR is involved in male sexual development and function the AR is a likely target for effecting male contraception or other forms of hormone replacement therapy.

Worldwide population growth and social awareness of family planning have stimulated a great deal of research in contraception. Contraception is a difficult subject under any circumstance. It is fraught with cultural and social stigma religious implications and most certainly significant health concerns. This situation is only exacerbated when the subject focuses on male contraception. Despite the availability of suitable contraceptive devices historically society has looked to women to be responsible for contraceptive decisions and their consequences. Although concern over sexually transmitted diseases has made men more aware of the need to develop safe and responsible sexual habits women still often bear the brunt of contraceptive choice. Women have a number of choices from temporary mechanical devices such as sponges and diaphragms to temporary chemical devices such as spermicides. Women also have at their disposal more permanent options such as physical devices including IUDs and cervical caps as well as more permanent chemical treatments such as birth control pills and subcutaneous implants. However to date the only options available for men include the use of condoms and vasectomy. Condom use however is not favored by many men because of the reduced sexual sensitivity the interruption in sexual spontaneity and the significant possibility of pregnancy caused by breakage or misuse. Vasectomies are also not favored. If more convenient methods of birth control were available to men particularly long term methods which require no preparative activity immediately prior to a sexual act such methods could significantly increase the likelihood that men would take more responsibility for contraception.

Administration of the male sex steroids e.g. testosterone and its derivatives has shown particular promise in this regard due to the combined gonadotropin suppressing and androgen substituting properties of these compounds Steinberger et al. Effect of Chronic Administration of Testosterone Enanthate on Sperm Production and Plasma Testosterone Follicle Stimulating Hormone and Luteinizing Hormone Levels A Preliminary Evaluation of a Possible Male Contraceptive Fertility and Sterility 28 1320 28 1977 . Chronic administration of high doses of testosterone completely abolishes sperm production azoospermia or reduces it to a very low level oligospermia . The degree of spermatogenic suppression necessary to produce infertility is not precisely known. However a recent report by the World Health Organization showed that weekly intramuscular injections of testosterone enanthate result in azoospermia or severe oligospermia i.e. less than 3 million sperm per ml and infertility in 98 of men receiving therapy World Health Organization Task Force on Methods And Regulation of Male Fertility Contraceptive Efficacy of Testosterone Induced Azoospermia and Oligospermia in Normal Men Fertility and Sterility 65 821 29 1996 .

A variety of testosterone esters have been developed which are more slowly absorbed after intramuscular injection and thus result in greater androgenic effect. Testosterone enanthate is the most widely used of these esters. While testosterone enanthate has been valuable in terms of establishing the feasibility of hormonal agents for male contraception it has several drawbacks including the need for weekly injections and the presence of supraphysiologic peak levels of testosterone immediately following intramuscular injection Wu Effects of Testosterone Enanthate in Normal Men Experience From a Multicenter Contraceptive Efficacy Study Fertility and Sterility 65 626 36 1996 .

Steroidal ligands which bind the AR and act as androgens e.g. testosterone enanthate or as antiandrogens e.g. cyproterone acetate have been known for many years and are used clinically Wu 1988 . Although nonsteroidal antiandrogens are in clinical use for hormone dependent prostate cancer nonsteroidal androgens have not been reported. For this reason research on male contraceptives has focused solely on steroidal compounds.

Prostate cancer is one of the most frequently occurring cancers among men in the United States with hundreds of thousands of new cases diagnosed each year. Unfortunately over sixty percent of newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer are found to be pathologically advanced with no cure and a dismal prognosis. One approach to this problem is to find prostate cancer earlier through screening programs and thereby reduce the number of advanced prostate cancer patients. Another strategy however is to develop drugs to prevent prostate cancer. One third of all men over 50 years of age have a latent form of prostate cancer that may be activated into the life threatening clinical prostate cancer form. The frequency of latent prostatic tumors has been shown to increase substantially with each decade of life from the 50s 5.3 14 to the 90s 40 80 . The number of people with latent prostate cancer is the same across all cultures ethnic groups and races yet the frequency of clinically aggressive cancer is markedly different. This suggests that environmental factors may play a role in activating latent prostate cancer. Thus the development of treatment and preventative strategies against prostate cancer may have the greatest overall impact both medically and economically against prostate cancer.

New innovative approaches are urgently needed at both the basic science and clinical levels to develop compounds which are useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM such as fatigue depression decreased libido sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction hypogonadism osteoporosis hair loss anemia obesity sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis benign prostate hyperplasia alterations in mood and cognition and prostate cancer c treatment of conditions associated with ADIF such as sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity endometriosis breast cancer uterine cancer and ovarian cancer d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

In one embodiment this invention provides a class of androgen receptor targeting agents ARTA . The agents define a new subclass of compounds which are selective androgen receptor modulators SARM . Several of the SARM compounds have been found to have an unexpected androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. Other SARM compounds have been found to have an unexpected antiandrogenic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. The SARM compounds either alone or as a composition are useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM such as fatigue depression decreased libido sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction hypogonadism osteoporosis hair loss anemia obesity sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis benign prostate hyperplasia alterations in mood and cognition and prostate cancer c treatment of conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Female ADIF such as sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity endometriosis breast cancer uterine cancer and ovarian cancer d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula I 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula II 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula III 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula IV 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula V 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VI 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VII 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VII 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula IX 

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compounds of this invention or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment Z in compound III is NO. In another embodiment Z in compound III is CN. In another embodiment Y in compound III is CH. In another embodiment Q in compound III is CN.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula X or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula XI or any combination thereof.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof and a suitable carrier or diluent.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of binding a selective androgen receptor modulator compound to an androgen receptor comprising the step of contacting the androgen receptor with the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to bind the selective androgen receptor modulator compound to the androgen receptor.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of suppressing spermatogenesis in a subject comprising contacting an androgen receptor of the subject with the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to suppress sperm production.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of contraception in a male subject comprising the step of administering to the subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to suppress sperm production in the subject thereby effecting contraception in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of hormone therapy comprising the step of contacting an androgen receptor of a subject with the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of any of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of hormone replacement therapy comprising the step of contacting an androgen receptor of a subject with the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a subject having a hormone related condition comprising the step of administering to the subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat prostate cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of preventing prostate cancer in a subject comprising the step of administering to the subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent prostate cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of delaying the progression of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to delay the progression of prostate cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of preventing the recurrence of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent the recurrence of prostate cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating the recurrence of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat the recurrence of prostate cancer in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a dry eye condition in a subject suffering from dry eyes comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat dry eyes in the subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of preventing a dry eye condition in a subject comprising the step of administering to said subject the selective androgen receptor modulator compound of formula I II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X or XI and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent dry eyes in the subject.

The novel selective androgen receptor modulator compounds of the present invention either alone or as a pharmaceutical composition are useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with ADAM such as fatigue depression decreased libido sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction hypogonadism osteoporosis hair loss obesity sarcopenia osteopenia benign prostate hyperplasia and alterations in mood and cognition c treatment of conditions associated with ADIF such as sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity endometriosis breast cancer uterine cancer and ovarian cancer d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

The selective androgen receptor modulator compounds of the present invention offer a significant advance over steroidal androgen treatment because the selective androgen receptor modulator compounds of the present invention have been shown in vivo to have an androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. Thus the selective androgen receptor modulator compounds have an androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor and will not be accompanied by serious side effects inconvenient modes of administration or high costs and still have the advantages of oral bioavailability lack of cross reactivity with other steroid receptors and long biological half lives.

In one embodiment this invention provides a class of androgen receptor targeting agents ARTA . The agents define a new subclass of compounds which are selective androgen receptor modulators SARM . Several of the SARM compounds have been found to have an unexpected androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. Other SARM compounds have been found to have an unexpected antiandrogenic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. The SARM compounds either alone or as a composition are useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM such as fatigue depression decreased libido sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction hypogonadism osteoporosis hair loss anemia obesity sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis benign prostate hyperplasia alterations in mood and cognition and prostate cancer c treatment of conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Female ADIF such as sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity endometriosis breast cancer uterine cancer and ovarian cancer d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula I 

In one embodiment this invention provides an analog of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a derivative of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides an isomer of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a metabolite of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutical product of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a hydrate of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides an N oxide of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a polymorph of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a crystal of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides an impurity of the compound of formula I . In another embodiment this invention provides a combination of any of an analog derivative metabolite isomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula I .

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula II 

In one embodiment this invention provides an analog of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a derivative of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides an isomer of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a metabolite of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutical product of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a hydrate of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides an N oxide of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a polymorph of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a crystal of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides an impurity of the compound of formula II . In another embodiment this invention provides a combination of any of an analog derivative metabolite isomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula II .

In one embodiment X in compound II is O. In one embodiment Z in compound II is NO. In another embodiment Z in compound II is CN. In another embodiment Y in compound II is CH. In another embodiment Q in compound II is NHCOCH. In another embodiment Q in compound II is F. another embodiment Q in compound II is Cl. In another embodiment Q in compound II is Br. In another embodiment Q in compound II is I. In another embodiment Q in compound II is Br. In another embodiment Q in compound I is CN. In another embodiment Q in compound II is Br. In another embodiment Q in compound II is CH. In another embodiment Q in compound II is in the para position. In another embodiment Z in compound II is in the para position. In another embodiment Y in compound II is in the meta position. In another embodiment Q in compound II is in the para position Y is in the meta position and Z is in the para position.

The substituents Z and Y can be in any position of the ring carrying these substituents hereinafter A ring . In one embodiment the substituent Z is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substituent Y is in the meta position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substituent Z is in the para position of the A ring and substituent Y is in the meta position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is NOand is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is CN and is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is F and is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is Cl and is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is Br and is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is I and is in the para position of the A ring. In another embodiment the substitutent Z is H. In another embodiment the substitutent Y is CHand is in the meta position of the A ring.

In another embodiment one of Z or Y together with the benzene ring to which it is attached is a fused bicyclic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring system such as but not being limited to natphthyl quinalzolyl pyrimidinyl and the like.

The substituent Q can be in any position of the ring carrying these substituents hereinafter B ring . In one embodiment the substitutent Q is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is F and is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is Cl and is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is Br and is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is I and is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is CN and is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is NHCOCHand is in the para position of the B ring. In another embodiment Q is CHand is in the para position of the B ring.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula III 

In one embodiment this invention provides an analog of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a derivative of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides an isomer of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a metabolite of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a pharmaceutical product of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a hydrate of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides an N oxide of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a polymorph of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a crystal of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides an impurity of the compound of formula III . In another embodiment this invention provides a combination of any of an analog derivative metabolite isomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula III .

In one embodiment X in compound III is O. In one embodiment Z in compound III is NO. In another embodiment Z in compound III is CN. In another embodiment Y in compound III is CH. In another embodiment Q in compound III is NHCOCH. In another embodiment Q in compound III is F. In another embodiment Q in compound III is Cl. In another embodiment Q in compound III is Br. In another embodiment Q in compound III is I. In another embodiment Q in compound III is CN. In another embodiment Q in compound III is NHCOCH. In another embodiment Q in compound III is CH.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula IV 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula V 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VI 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VII 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula VII 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound represented by the structure of formula IX 

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compounds of this invention or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula X or any combination thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention provides an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide of the compound of formula XI or any combination thereof.

The substituent R is defined herein as an alkyl haloalkyl dihaloalkyl trihaloalkyl CHF CHF CF CFCF aryl phenyl halogen alkenyl or hydroxyl OH .

An alkyl group refers to a saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon including straight chain branched chain and cyclic alkyl groups. In one embodiment the alkyl group has 1 12 carbons. In another embodiment the alkyl group has 1 7 carbons. In another embodiment the alkyl group has 1 6 carbons. In another embodiment the alkyl group has 1 4 carbons. The alkyl group may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more groups selected from halogen hydroxy alkoxy carbonyl amido alkylamido dialkylamido nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino carboxyl thio and thioalkyl.

A haloalkyl group refers to an alkyl group as defined above which is substituted by one or more halogen atoms in one embodiment it may be substituted by F in another embodiment it may be substituted by Cl in another embodiment it may be substituted by Br and in another embodiment it may be substituted by I.

An aryl group refers to an aromatic group having at least one carbocyclic aromatic group or heterocyclic aromatic group which may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more groups selected from halogen haloalkyl hydroxy alkoxy carbonyl amido alkylamido dialkylamido nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino carboxy or thio or thioalkyl. Nonlimiting examples of aryl rings are phenyl naphthyl pyranyl pyrrolyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl furanyl thiophenyl thiazolyl imidazolyl isoxazolyl and the like.

A hydroxyl group refers to an OH group. An alkenyl group refers to a group having at least one carbon to carbon double bond. A halo group refers to F Cl Br or I.

An arylalkyl group refers to an alkyl bound to an aryl wherein alkyl and aryl are as defined above. An example of an aralkyl group is a benzyl group.

A lipid soluble group refers to substituents that have a positive value according to Hansch. value is a lipophilicity constant developed specifically for QSAR quantitative structure activity relationship by Hansch wherein by definition the value for hydrogen is zero. Such lipid soluble groups which are substituents on the aromatic ring of the compounds of this invention in some embodiments are CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH CH nCHwherein n 4 CH.

As contemplated herein the present invention relates to the use of a SARM compound and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate N oxide polymorph crystal impurity or combinations thereof. In one embodiment the invention relates to the use of an analog of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a derivative of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of an isomer of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a metabolite of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a pharmaceutical product of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a hydrate of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of an N oxide of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a polymorph of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of a crystal of the SARM compound. In another embodiment the invention relates to the use of an impurity of the SARM compound.

As defined herein the term isomer includes but is not limited to optical isomers and analogs structural isomers and analogs conformational isomers and analogs and the like.

In one embodiment this invention encompasses the use of various optical isomers of the SARM compound. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the SARMs of the present invention contain at least one chiral center. Accordingly the SARMs used in the methods of the present invention may exist in and be isolated in optically active or racemic forms. Some compounds may also exhibit polymorphism. It is to be understood that the present invention encompasses any racemic optically active polymorphic or stereroisomeric form or mixtures thereof which form possesses properties useful in the treatment of androgen related conditions described herein. In one embodiment the SARMs are the pure R isomers. In another embodiment the SARMs are the pure S isomers. In another embodiment the SARMs are a mixture of the R and the S isomers. In another embodiment the SARMs are a racemic mixture comprising an equal amount of the R and the S isomers. It is well known in the art how to prepare optically active forms for example by resolution of the racemic form by recrystallization techniques by synthesis from optically active starting materials by chiral synthesis or by chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase .

The invention includes pharmaceutically acceptable salts of amino substituted compounds with organic and inorganic acids for example citric acid and hydrochloric acid. The invention also includes N oxides of the amino substituents of the compounds described herein. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be prepared from the phenolic compounds by treatment with inorganic bases for example sodium hydroxide. Also esters of the phenolic compounds can be made with aliphatic and aromatic carboxylic acids for example acetic acid and benzoic acid esters.

This invention further includes derivatives of the SARM compounds. The term derivatives includes but is not limited to ether derivatives acid derivatives amide derivatives ester derivatives and the like. In addition this invention further includes hydrates of the SARM compounds. The term hydrate includes but is not limited to hemihydrate monohydrate dihydrate trihydrate and the like.

This invention further includes metabolites of the SARM compounds. The term metabolite means any substance produced from another substance by metabolism or a metabolic process.

This invention further includes pharmaceutical products of the SARM compounds. The term pharmaceutical product means a composition suitable for pharmaceutical use pharmaceutical composition as defined herein.

This invention father includes crystals of the SARM compounds. Furthermore this invention provides polymorphs of the anti cancer compounds. The term crystal means a substance in a crystalline state. The term polymorph refers to a particular crystalline state of a substance having particular physical properties such as X ray diffraction IR spectra melting point and the like.

The compounds provided herein are a new subclass of compounds which are selective androgen receptor modulators SARM which are useful for oral testosterone replacement therapy which have an unexpected in vivo activity for an androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor. Further appropriately substituted compounds are effective to treat prostate cancer and are useful for imaging of prostate cancer. The SARM compounds demonstrate an in vivo androgenic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal ligand for the androgen receptor.

As contemplated herein the appropriately substituted SARM compounds of the present invention are useful for a male contraception b treatment of a variety of hormone related conditions for example conditions associated with Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM such as fatigue depression decreased libido sexual dysfunction erectile dysfunction hypogonadism osteoporosis hair loss anemia obesity sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis benign prostate hyperplasia alterations in mood and cognition and prostate cancer c treatment of conditions associated with ADIF such as sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity endometriosis breast cancer uterine cancer and ovarian cancer d treatment and or prevention of acute and or chronic muscular wasting conditions e preventing and or treating dry eye conditions f oral androgen replacement therapy and or g decreasing the incidence of halting or causing a regression of prostate cancer.

As used herein receptors for extracellular signaling molecules are collectively referred to as cell signaling receptors . Many cell signaling receptors are transmembrane proteins on a cell surface when they bind an extracellular signaling molecule i.e. a ligand they become activated so as to generate a cascade of intracellular signals that alter the behavior of the cell. In contrast in some cases the receptors are inside the cell and the signaling ligand has to enter the cell to activate them these signaling molecules therefore must be sufficiently small and hydrophobic to diffuse across the plasma membrane of the cell.

Steroid hormones are one example of small hydrophobic molecules that diffuse directly across the plasma membrane of target cells and bind to intracellular cell signaling receptors. These receptors are structurally related and constitute the intracellular receptor superfamily or steroid hormone receptor superfamily . Steroid hormone receptors include progesterone receptors estrogen receptors androgen receptors glueocorticoid receptors and mineralocorticoid receptors. The present invention is particularly directed to androgen receptors.

In addition to ligand binding to the receptors the receptors can be blocked to prevent ligand binding. When a substance binds to a receptor the three dimensional structure of the substance fits into a space created by the three dimensional structure of the receptor in a ball and socket configuration. The better the ball fits into the socket the more tightly it is held. This phenomenon is called affinity. If the affinity of a substance is greater than the original hormone it will compete with the hormone and bind the binding site more frequently. Once bound signals may be sent through the receptor into the cells causing the cell to respond in some fashion. This is called activation. On activation the activated receptor then directly regulates the transcription of specific genes. But the substance and the receptor may have certain attributes other than affinity in order to activate the cell. Chemical bonds between atoms of the substance and the atoms of the receptors may form. In some cases this leads to a change in the configuration of the receptor which is enough to begin the activation process called signal transduction .

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to selective androgen receptor modulator compounds which are agonist compounds. A receptor agonist is a substance which binds receptors and activates them. Thus in one embodiment the SARM compounds of the present invention are useful in binding to and activating steroidal hormone receptors. In one embodiment the agonist compound of the present invention is an agonist which binds the androgen receptor. In another embodiment the compound has high affinity for the androgen receptor. In another embodiment the agonist compound also has anabolic activity. In another embodiment the present invention provides selective androgen modulator compounds which have agonistic and anabolic activity of a nonsteroidal compound for the androgen receptor.

In another embodiment other selective androgen receptor modulator compounds are antagonist compounds. A receptor antagonist is a substance which binds receptors and inactivates them. Thus in one embodiment the SARM compounds of the present invention are useful in binding to and inactivating steroidal hormone receptors. In one embodiment the antagonist compound of the present invention is an antagonist which binds the androgen receptor. In another embodiment the compound has high affinity for the androgen receptor.

In yet another embodiment the SARM compounds of the present invention can be classified as partial AR agonist antagonists. The SARMs are AR agonists in some tissues to cause increased transcription of AR responsive genes e.g. muscle anabolic effect . In other tissues these compounds serve as inhibitors at the AR to prevent agonistic effects of the native androgens.

Assays to determine whether the compounds of the present invention are AR agonists or antagonists are well known to a person skilled in the art. For example AR agonistic activity can be determined by monitoring the ability of the SARM compounds to maintain and or stimulate the growth of AR containing tissue such as prostate and seminal vesicles as measured by weight. AR antagonistic activity can be determined by monitoring the ability of the SARM compounds to inhibit the growth of AR containing tissue.

The compounds of the present invention bind either reversibly or irreversibly to an androgen receptor. In one embodiment the androgen receptor is an androgen receptor of a mammal. In another embodiment the androgen receptor is an androgen receptor of a human. In one embodiment the SARM compounds bind reversibly to the androgen receptor of a mammal for example a human. Reversible binding of a compound to a receptor means that a compound can detach from the receptor after binding.

In another embodiment the SARM compounds bind irreversibly to the androgen receptor of a mammal for example a human. Thus in one embodiment the compounds of the present invention may contain a functional group e.g. affinity label that allows alkylation of the androgen receptor i.e. covalent bond formation . Thus in this case the compounds are alkylating agents which bind irreversibly to the receptor and accordingly cannot be displaced by a steroid such as the endogenous ligands DHT and testosterone. An alkylating agent is defined herein as an agent which alkylates forms a covalent bond with a cellular component such as DNA RNA or enzyme. It is a highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning. The alkylating moiety is an electrophilic group that interacts with nucleophilic moieties in cellular components.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for binding the SARM compounds of the present invention to an androgen receptor by contacting the receptor with a SARM compound and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof under conditions effective to cause the selective androgen receptor modulator compound to bind the androgen receptor. The binding of the selective androgen receptor modulator compounds to the androgen receptor enables the compounds of the present invention to be useful as a male contraceptive and in a number of hormone therapies. The agonist compounds bind to and activate the androgen receptor. The antagonist compounds bind to and inactivate the androgen receptor. Binding of the agonist or antagonist compounds is either reversible or irreversible.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for suppressing spermatogenesis in a subject by contacting an androgen receptor of the subject with a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to bind the selective androgen receptor modulator compound to the androgen receptor and suppress spermatogenesis.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for contraception in a male subject comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to suppress sperm production in the subject thereby effecting contraception in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for hormonal therapy in a patient i.e. one suffering from an androgen dependent condition which includes contacting an androgen receptor of a patient with a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to bind the selective androgen receptor modulator compound to the androgen receptor and effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for hormone replacement therapy in a patient i.e. one suffering from an androgen dependent condition which includes contacting an androgen receptor of a patient with a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to bind the selective androgen receptor modulator compound to the androgen receptor and effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for treating a subject having a hormone related condition which includes administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to bind the SARM compound to the androgen receptor and effect a change in an androgen dependent condition.

Androgen dependent conditions which may be treated according to the present invention include those conditions which are associated with aging such as hypogonadism sarcopenia erythropoiesis osteoporosis and any other conditions later determined to be dependent upon low androgen e.g. testosterone levels.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for treating a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat prostate cancer in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for preventing prostate cancer in a subject comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat prevent prostate cancer in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for delaying the progression of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to delay the progression of prostate cancer in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for preventing the recurrence of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent the recurrence of prostate cancer in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for treating the recurrence of prostate cancer in a subject suffering from prostate cancer comprising the step of administering to the subject a SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat the recurrence of prostate cancer in the subject.

The present invention provides in one embodiment a safe and effective method for treating preventing suppressing inhibiting or reducing loss of muscle and or muscle protein catabolism due to muscle wasting. The invention is useful in another embodiment in treating a subject suffering from a muscle wasting disorder or in another embodiment in treating a bone related disorder. In one embodiment the subject is a mammalian subject.

In another embodiment this invention relates to a method of preventing suppressing inhibiting or reducing the incidence of obesity in a subject comprising the step of administering to the subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM of this invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate N oxide prodrug polymorph crystal or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent suppress inhibit or reduce the incidence of obesity in the subject.

In one embodiment the SARM compounds of the present invention alter the levels of leptin in a subject. In another embodiment the SARM compounds decrease the levels of leptin. In another embodiment the SARM compounds of the present invention increase the levels of leptin in a subject. Leptin is known to have an effect on appetite on weight loss in obese mice and thus has been implicated in obesity.

The SARMs of this invention in one embodiment affect circulating or in another embodiment tissue levels of leptin. In one embodiment the term level s of leptin refers to the serum level of leptin. As contemplated herein the SARM compounds of the present invention have an effect on leptin in vitro and in vivo. Leptin levels can be measured by methods known to one skilled in the art for example by commercially available ELISA kits. In addition Leptin levels may be determined in in vitro assays or in in vivo assays by any method known to a person skilled in the art.

Since leptin is implicated in controlling appetite weight loss food intake and energy expenditure modulating and or controlling the levels of leptin is a useful therapeutic approach in treating preventing inhibiting or reducing the incidence of obesity in subjects suffering from obesity. Modulating the level of leptin can result in a loss of appetite a reduction of food intake and an increase in energy expenditure in the subject and thus may contribute to the control and treatment of obesity.

In one embodiment this invention relates to a method of treating a male subject suffering from an Androgen Decline in Aging Male ADAM associated condition comprising the step of administering to the subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound of this invention. In another embodiment the method comprises administering an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate or N oxide prodrug polymorph or crystal of the SARM compound or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the male subject is an aging male subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of preventing suppressing inhibiting or reducing the incidence of an ADAM associated condition in a male subject comprising the step of administering to the subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound of this invention. In another embodiment the method comprises administering an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate or N oxide prodrug polymorph or crystal of the SARM compound or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the male subject is an aging male subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a male subject suffering from sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido erectile dysfunction hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity benign prostate hyperplasia and or prostate cancer due to Androgen Decline in an Aging Male ADAM comprising the step of administering to the subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound of this invention. In another embodiment the method comprises administering an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate or N oxide prodrug polymorph or crystal of the SARM compound or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the male subject is an aging male subject.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of preventing suppressing inhibiting or reducing the incidence of an ADAM associated condition selected from sexual dysfunction decreased sexual libido erectile dysfunction hypogonadism sarcopenia osteopenia osteoporosis alterations in cognition and mood depression anemia hair loss obesity benign prostate hyperplasia and or prostate cancer in a male subject comprising the step of administering to the subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM compound of this invention. In another embodiment the method comprises administering an analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product hydrate or N oxide prodrug polymorph or crystal of the SARM compound or any combination thereof. In one embodiment the male subject is an aging male subject.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for treating a subject having a bone related disorder said method comprising administering to said subject a selective androgen receptor modulator SARM of this invention and or its isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity N oxide hydrate and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or salt thereby treating a subject having a bone related disorder.

In one embodiment the bone related disorder is osteoporosis. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is osteopenia. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is increased bone resorption. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is bone fracture. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is bone frailty. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is a loss of BMD. In another embodiment the bone related disorder is any combination of osteoporosis osteopenia increased bone resorption bone fracture bone frailty and loss of BMD. Each disorder represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

 Osteoporosis refers in one embodiment to a thinning of the bones with reduction in bone mass due to depletion of calcium and bone protein. In another embodiment osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease characterized by low bone mass and deterioration of bone tissue with a consequent increase in bone fragility and susceptibility to fracture. In osteoporotic patients bone strength is abnormal in one embodiment with a resulting increase in the risk of fracture. In another embodiment osteoporosis depletes both the calcium and the protein collagen normally found in the bone in one embodiment resulting in either abnormal bone quality or decreased bone density. In another embodiment bones that are affected by osteoporosis can fracture with only a minor fall or injury that normally would not cause a bone fracture. The fracture can be in one embodiment either in the form of cracking as in a hip fracture or collapsing as in a compression fracture of the spine . The spine hips and wrists are common areas of osteoporosis induced bone fractures although fractures can also occur in other skeletal areas. Unchecked osteoporosis can lead in another embodiment to changes in posture physical abnormality and decreased mobility.

In one embodiment the osteoporosis results from androgen deprivation. In another embodiment the osteoporosis follows androgen deprivation. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is primary osteoporosis. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is secondary osteoporosis. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is postmenopausal osteoporosis. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is juvenile osteoporosis. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is idiopathic osteoporosis. In another embodiment the osteoporosis is senile osteoporosis.

In another embodiment the primary osteoporosis is Type I primary osteoporosis. In another embodiment the primary osteoporosis is Type II primary osteoporosis. Each type of osteoporosis represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

Osteoporosis and osteopenia are in another embodiment systemic skeletal diseases characterized by low bone mass and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue. Microarchitectural deterioration refers in one embodiment to thinning of the trabeculae defined below and the loss of inter trabecular connections in bone. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 2.5 standard deviations SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 2.5 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 2.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 2.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 3.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 3.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. Each definition of osteoporosis or osteopenia represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 2.5 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 2.5 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 2.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 2.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMD 3.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a BMC 3.0 SD below the young adult mean. Each definition of osteoporosis represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

Methods for assessing osteoporosis and osteopenia are well known in the art. For example in one embodiment a patient s BMD measured by densitometry and expressed in g cm is compared with a normal value which is the mean BMD of sex matched young adults at their peak bone mass yielding a T score. In another embodiment Z score the amount of bone loss in a patient is compared with the expected loss for individuals of the same age and sex. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 2.5 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 2.5 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 2.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 2.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 3.0 SD or more below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 3.0 SD or more below the young adult mean.

In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 2.5 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 2.5 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 2.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 2.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a T score 3.0 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteoporosis is defined as having a Z score 3.0 SD below the young adult mean. Each definition of osteoporosis represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

The term BMD is in one embodiment a measured calculation of the true mass of bone. The absolute amount of bone as measured by BMD generally correlates with bone strength and its ability to bear weight. By measuring BMD it is possible to predict fracture risk in the same manner that measuring blood pressure can help predict the risk of stroke.

BMD in one embodiment can be measured by known BMD mapping techniques. In one embodiment bone density of the hip spine wrist or calcaneus may be measured by a variety of techniques. The preferred method of BMD measurement is dual energy x ray densitometry DEXA . BMD of the hip antero posterior AP spine lateral spine and wrist can be measured using this technology. Measurement at any site predicts overall risk of fracture but information from a specific site is the best predictor of fracture at that site. Quantitative computerized tomography QCT is also used to measure BMD of the spine. See for example Nuclear Medicine Quantitative Procedures by Wahner H W et al published by Toronto Little Brown Co. 1983 pages 107 132 Assessment of Bone Mineral Part 1 J Nucl Medicine pp 1134 1141 1984 and Bone Mineral Density of The Radius J Nucl Medicine 26 13 39 1985 . Each method of measuring BMD represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

 Osteopenia refers in one embodiment to having a BMD or BMC between 1 and 2.5 SD below the young adult mean. In another embodiment osteopenia refers to decreased calcification or density of bone. This term encompasses in one embodiment all skeletal systems in which such a condition is noted. Each definition or means of diagnosis of the disorders disclosed in the present invention represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment the term bone fracture refers to a breaking of bones and encompasses both vertebral and non vertebral bone fractures. The term bone frailty refers in one embodiment to a weakened state of the bones that predisposes them to fractures.

In one embodiment the bone related disorder is treated with a SARM compound of this invention or a combination thereof. In another embodiment other bone stimulating compounds can be provided to a subject prior to concurrent with or following administration of a SARM or SARMs of this invention. In one embodiment such a bone stimulating compound may comprise natural or synthetic materials.

In one embodiment the bone stimulating compound may comprise a bone morphogenetic protein BMP a growth factor such as epidermal growth factor EGF a fibroblast growth factor FGF a transforming growth factor TGF or TGF an insulin growth factor IGF a platelet derived growth factor PDGF hedgehog proteins such as sonic indian and desert hedgehog a hormone such as follicle stimulating hormone parathyroid hormone parathyroid hormone related peptide activins inhibins frizzled frzb or frazzled proteins BMP binding proteins such as chordin and fetuin a cytokine such as IL 3 IL 7 GM CSF a chemokine such as eotaxin a collagen osteocalcin osteonectin and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the compositions for use in treating a bone disorder of this invention may comprise a SARM or SARMs of this invention an additional bone stimulating compound or compounds and osteogenic cells. In one embodiment an osteogenic cell may be a stem cell or progenitor cell which may be induced to differentiate into an osteoblast. In another embodiment the cell may be an osteoblast.

In another embodiment nucleic acids which encode bone stimulating to compounds may be administered to the subject which is to be considered as part of this invention.

In one embodiment the osteoporosis osteopenia increased bone resorption bone fracture bone frailty loss of BMD and other diseases or disorders of is the present invention are caused by a hormonal disorder disruption or imbalance. In another embodiment these conditions occur independently of a hormonal disorder disruption or imbalance. Each possibility represents a separate embodiment of the present invention.

In embodiment the hormonal disorder disruption or imbalance comprises an excess of a hormone. In another embodiment the hormonal disorder disruption or imbalance comprises a deficiency of a hormone. In one embodiment the hormone is a steroid hormone. In another embodiment the hormone is an estrogen. In another embodiment the hormone is an androgen. In another embodiment the hormone is a glucocorticoid. In another embodiment the hormone is a cortico steroid. In another embodiment the hormone is Luteinizing Hormone LH . In another embodiment the hormone is Follicle Stimulating Hormone FSH . In another embodiment the hormone is any other hormone known in the art. In another embodiment the hormonal disorder disruption or imbalance is associated with menopause. In another embodiment hormone deficiency is a result of specific manipulation as a byproduct of treating a disease or disorder in the subject. For example the hormone deficiency may be a result of androgen depletion in a subject as a therapy for prostate cancer in the subject.

Furthermore stimulation of the Androgen Receptor stimulates the production of tears and thus the SARM compounds of the present invention may be used to treat dry eye conditions. Therefore according to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for treating a dry eye condition in a subject suffering from dry eyes comprising the step of administering to said subject the SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to treat dry eyes in the subject.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for preventing a dry eye condition in a subject comprising the step of administering to said subject the SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof in an amount effective to prevent dry eyes in the subject.

In one embodiment contacting means that the SARM compound of the present invention is introduced into a sample containing the enzyme in a test tube flask tissue culture chip array plate microplate capillary or the like and incubated at a temperature and time sufficient to permit binding of the SARM to the enzyme. Methods for contacting the samples with the SARM or other specific binding components are known to those skilled in the art and may be selected depending on the type of assay protocol to be run. Incubation methods are also standard and are known to those skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the term contacting means that the SARM compound of the present invention is introduced into a subject receiving treatment and the SARM compound is allowed to come in contact with the androgen receptor in vivo.

In one embodiment the term treating includes preventative as well as disorder remitative treatment. In one embodiment the terms reducing suppressing and inhibiting have their commonly understood meaning of lessening or decreasing. In one embodiment the term progression means increasing in scope or severity advancing growing or becoming worse. In one embodiment the term recurrence means the return of a disease after a remission.

In one embodiment the term administering refers to bringing a subject in contact with a SARM compound of the present invention. In one embodiment administration can be accomplished in vitro i.e. in a test tube or in vivo i.e. in cells or tissues of living organisms for example humans. In one embodiment the present invention encompasses administering the compounds of the present invention to a subject.

In one embodiment erectile as used herein means capable of being erected. An erectile tissue is a tissue which is capable of being greatly dilated and made rigid by the distension of the numerous blood vessels which it contains.

In one embodiment Hypogonadism is a condition resulting from or characterised by abnormally decreased functional activity of the gonads with retardation of growth and sexual development. In one embodiment Osteopenia refers to decreased calcification or density of bone. This is a term that encompasses all skeletal systems in which such a condition is noted.

In one embodiment Osteoporosis refers to a thinning of the bones with reduction in bone mass due to depletion of calcium and bone protein. Osteoporosis predisposes a person to fractures which are often slow to heal and heal poorly. Unchecked osteoporosis can lead to changes in posture physical abnormality and decreased mobility.

In one embodiment BPH benign prostate hyperplasia is a nonmalignant enlargement of the prostate gland and is the most common non malignant proliferative abnormality found in any internal organ and the major cause of morbidity in the adult male. BPH occurs in over 75 of men over 50 years of age reaching 88 prevalence by the ninth decade. BPH frequently results in a gradual squeezing of the portion of the urethra which traverses the prostate prostatic urethra . This causes patients to experience a frequent urge to urinate because of incomplete emptying of the bladder and urgency of urination. The obstruction of urinary flow can also lead to a general lack of control over urination including difficulty initiating urination when desired as well as difficulty in preventing urinary flow because of the inability to empty urine from the bladder a condition known as overflow urinary incontinence which can lead to urinary obstruction and to urinary failure.

In one embodiment Cognition refers to the process of knowing specifically the process of being aware knowing thinking learning and judging. Cognition is related to the fields of psychology linguistics computer science neuroscience mathematics ethology and philosophy. In one embodiment mood refers to a temper or state of the mind. As contemplated herein alterations mean any change for the positive or negative in cognition and or mood.

In one embodiment depression refers to an illness that involves the body mood and thoughts that affects the way a person eats sleeps and the way one feels about oneself and thinks about things. The signs and symptoms of depression include loss of interest in activities loss of appetite or overeating loss of emotional expression an empty mood feelings of hopelessness pessimism guilt or helplessness social withdrawal fatigue sleep disturbances trouble concentrating remembering or making decisions restlessness irritability headaches digestive disorders or chronic pain.

In one embodiment hair loss medically known as alopecia refers to baldness as in the very common type of male pattern baldness. Baldness typically begins with patch hair loss on the scalp and sometimes progresses to complete baldness and even loss of body hair. Hair loss affects both males and females.

In one embodiment Anemia refers to the condition of having less than the normal number of red blood cells or less than the normal quantity of hemoglobin in the blood. The oxygen carrying capacity of the blood is therefore decreased. Persons with anemia may feel tired and fatigue easily appear pale develop palpitations and become usually short of breath. Anemia is caused by four basic factors a hemorrhage bleeding b hemolysis excessive destruction of red blood cells c underproduction of red blood cells and d not enough normal hemoglobin. There are many forms of anemia including aplastic anemia benzene poisoning Fanconi anemia hemolytic disease of the newborn hereditary spherocytosis iron deficiency anemia osteopetrosis pernicious anemia sickle cell disease thalassemia myelodysplastic syndrome and a variety of bone marrow diseases. As contemplated herein the SARM compounds of the present invention are useful in preventing and or treating any one or more of the above listed forms of anemia.

In one embodiment Obesity refers to the state of being well above one s normal weight. Traditionally a person is considered to be obese if they are more than 20 percent over their ideal weight. Obesity has been more precisely defined by the National Institute of Health NIH as a Body to Mass Index BMI of 30 or above. Obesity is often multifactorial based on both genetic and behavioral factors. Overweight due to obesity is a significant contributor to health problems. It increases the risk of developing a number of diseases including Type 2 adult onset diabetes high blood pressure hypertension stroke cerebrovascular accident or CVA heart attack myocardial infarction or MI heart failure congestive heart failure cancer certain forms such as cancer of the prostate and cancer of the colon and rectum gallstones and gallbladder disease cholecystitis Gout and gouty arthritis osteoarthritis degenerative arthritis of the knees hips and the lower back sleep apnea failure to breath normally during sleep lowering blood oxygen and Pickwickian syndrome obesity red face underventilation and drowsiness . As contemplated herein the term obesity includes any one of the above listed obesity related conditions and diseases. Thus the SARM compounds of the present invention are useful in preventing and or treating obesity and any one or more of the above listed obesity related conditions and diseases.

In one embodiment Prostate cancer is one of the most frequently occurring cancers among men in the United States with hundreds of thousands of new cases diagnosed each year. Over sixty percent of newly diagnosed cases of prostate cancer are found to be pathologically advanced with no cure and a dismal prognosis. One third of all men over 50 years of age have a latent form of prostate cancer that may be activated into the life threatening clinical prostate cancer form. The frequency of latent prostatic tumors has been shown to increase substantially with each decade of life from the 50s 5.3 14 to the 90s 40 80 . The number of people with latent prostate cancer is the same across all cultures ethnic groups and races yet the frequency of clinically aggressive cancer is markedly different. This suggests that environmental factors may play a role in activating latent prostate cancer.

In one embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a SARM compound as the sole active ingredient. However also encompassed within the scope of the present invention are methods for hormone therapy for treating prostate cancer for delaying the progression of prostate cancer and for preventing and or treating the recurrence of prostate cancer which comprise administering the SARM compounds in combination with one or more therapeutic agents. These agents include but are not limited to LHRH analogs reversible antiandrogens antiestrogens anticancer drugs 5 alpha reductase inhibitors aromatase inhibitors progestins agents acting through other nuclear hormone receptors selective estrogen receptor modulators SERM progesterone estrogen PDE5 inhibitors apomorphine bisphosphonate and one or more additional SARMS.

Thus in one embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering the selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an LHRH analog. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a reversible antiandrogen. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an antiestrogen. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an anticancer drug. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a 5 alpha reductase inhibitor. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an aromatase inhibitor. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a progestin. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an agent acting through other nuclear hormone receptors. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a selective estrogen receptor modulators SERM . In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a progesterone. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with an estrogen. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a PDE5 inhibitor. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with apomorphine. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with a bisphosphonate. In another embodiment the methods of the present invention comprise administering a selective androgen receptor modulator compound in combination with one or more additional SARMS.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a composition and a pharmaceutical composition comprising the SARM compound of the present invention and or its analog derivative isomer metabolite pharmaceutically acceptable salt pharmaceutical product polymorph crystal impurity hydrate N oxide or any combination thereof and a suitable carrier or diluent.

In one embodiment pharmaceutical composition means therapeutically effective amounts of the SARM together with suitable diluents preservatives solubilizers emulsifiers adjuvant and or carriers. A therapeutically effective amount as used herein refers to that amount which provides a therapeutic effect for a given condition and administration regimen. Such compositions are liquids or Lyophilized or otherwise dried formulations and include diluents of various buffer content e.g. Tris HCl acetate phosphate pH and ionic strength additives such as albumin or gelatin to prevent absorption to surfaces detergents e.g. Tween 20 Tween 80 Pluronic F68 bile acid salts solubilizing agents e.g. glycerol polyethylene glycerol anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite preservatives e.g. Thimerosal benzyl alcohol parabens bulking substances or tonicity modifiers e.g. lactose mannitol covalent attachment of polymers such as polyethylene glycol to the protein complexation with metal ions or incorporation of the material into or onto particulate preparations of polymeric compounds such as polylactic acid polglycolic acid hydrogels etc or onto liposomes microemulsions micelles unilamellar or multilamellar vesicles erythrocyte ghosts or spheroplasts. Such compositions will influence the physical state solubility stability rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance. Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic depots e.g. fatty acids waxes oils .

Also comprehended by the invention are particulate compositions coated with polymers e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines . Other embodiments of the compositions of the invention incorporate particulate forms protective coatings protease inhibitors or permeation enhancers for various routes of administration including parenteral pulmonary nasal and oral. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is administered parenterally paracancerally transmucosally transdermally intramuscularly intravenously intradermally subcutaneously intravaginally intraperitonealy intraventricularly intracranially or intratumorally.

Further in one embodiment pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well known to those skilled in the art and include but are not limited to 0.01 0.1M and preferably 0.05M phosphate buffer or 0.8 saline. Additionally such pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions and emulsions. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol vegetable oils such as olive oil and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media.

Parenteral vehicles include sodium chloride solution Ringer s dextrose dextrose and sodium chloride lactated Ringer s and fixed oils. Intravenous vehicles include fluid and nutrient replenishers electrolyte replenishers such as those based on Ringer s dextrose and the like. Preservatives and other additives may also be present such as for example antimicrobials antioxidants collating agents inert gases and the like.

Controlled or sustained release compositions include formulation in lipophilic depots e.g. fatty acids waxes oils . Also comprehended by the invention are particulate compositions coated with polymers e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines and the compound coupled to antibodies directed against tissue specific receptors ligands or antigens or coupled to ligands of tissue specific receptors.

Other embodiments of the compositions of the invention incorporate particulate forms protective coatings protease inhibitors or permeation enhancers for various routes of administration including parenteral pulmonary nasal and oral.

Compounds modified by the covalent attachment of water soluble polymers such as polyethylene glycol copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol carboxymethyl cellulose dextran polyvinyl alcohol polyvinylpyrrolidone or polyproline are known to exhibit substantially longer half lives in blood following intravenous injection than do the corresponding unmodified compounds Abuchowski et al. 1981 Newmark et al. 1982 and Katre et al. 1987 . Such modifications may also increase the compound s solubility in aqueous solution eliminate aggregation enhance the physical and chemical stability of the compound and greatly reduce the immunogenicity and reactivity of the compound. As a result the desired in vivo biological activity may be achieved by the administration of such polymer compound abducts less frequently or in lower doses than with the unmodified compound.

In yet another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition can be delivered in a controlled release system. For example the agent may be administered using intravenous infusion an implantable osmotic pump a transdermal patch liposomes or other modes of administration. In one embodiment a pump may be used see Langer supra Sefton CRC Crit. Ref. Biomed. Eng. 14 201 1987 Buchwald et al. Surgery 88 507 1980 Saudek et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 321 574 1989 . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used. In yet another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity to the therapeutic target i.e. the brain thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer Science 249 1527 1533 1990 .

The pharmaceutical preparation can comprise the SARM agent alone or can further include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and can be in solid or liquid form such as tablets powders capsules pellets solutions suspensions elixirs emulsions gels creams or suppositories including rectal and urethral suppositories. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include gums starches sugars cellulosic materials and mixtures thereof. The pharmaceutical preparation containing the SARM agent can be administered to a subject by for example subcutaneous implantation of a pellet in one embodiment the pellet provides for controlled release of SARM agent over a period of time. The preparation can also be administered by intravenous intraarterial or intramuscular injection of a liquid preparation oral administration of a liquid or solid preparation or by topical application. Administration can also be accomplished by use of a rectal suppository or a urethral suppository.

The pharmaceutical preparations of the invention can be prepared by known dissolving mixing granulating or tablet forming processes. For oral administration the SARM agents or their physiologically tolerated derivatives such as salts esters N oxides and the like are mixed with additives customary for this purpose such as vehicles stabilizers or inert diluents and converted by customary methods into suitable forms for administration such as tablets coated tablets hard or soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions. Examples of suitable inert vehicles are conventional tablet bases such as lactose sucrose or cornstarch in combination with binders such as acacia cornstarch gelatin with disintegrating agents such as cornstarch potato starch alginic acid or with a lubricant such as stearic acid or magnesium stearate.

Examples of suitable oily vehicles or solvents are vegetable or animal oils such as sunflower oil or fish liver oil. Preparations can be effected both as dry and as wet granules. For parenteral administration subcutaneous intravenous intraarterial or intramuscular injection the SARM agents or their physiologically tolerated derivatives such as salts esters N oxides and the like are converted into a solution suspension or emulsion if desired with the substances customary and suitable for this purpose for example solubilizers or other auxiliaries. Examples are sterile liquids such as water and oils with or without the addition of a surfactant and other pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants. Illustrative oils are those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil or mineral oil. In general water saline aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions and glycols such as propylene glycols or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions.

The preparation of pharmaceutical compositions which contain an active component is well understood in the art. Typically such compositions are prepared as aerosols of the polypeptide delivered to the nasopharynx or as injectables either as liquid solutions or suspensions however solid forms suitable for solution in or suspension in liquid prior to injection can also be prepared. The preparation can also be emulsified. The active therapeutic ingredient is often mixed with excipients which are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient. Suitable excipients are for example water saline dextrose glycerol ethanol or the like or any combination thereof.

In addition the composition can contain minor amounts of auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents pH buffering agents which enhance the effectiveness of the active ingredient.

An active component can be formulated into the composition as neutralized pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the acid addition salts formed with the free amino groups of the polypeptide or antibody molecule which are formed with inorganic acids such as for example hydrochloric or phosphoric acids or such organic acids as acetic oxalic tartaric mandelic and the like. Salts formed from the free carboxyl groups can also be derived from inorganic bases such as for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine and the like.

For topical administration to body surfaces using for example creams gels drops and the like the SARM agents or their physiologically tolerated derivatives such as salts esters N oxides and the like can be prepared and applied as solutions suspensions or emulsions in a physiologically acceptable diluent with or without a pharmaceutical carrier.

In another embodiment the active compound can be delivered in a vesicle in particular a liposome see Langer Science 249 1527 1533 1990 Treat et al. in Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer Lopez Berestein and Fidler eds. Liss New York pp. 353 365 1989 Lopez Berestein ibid. pp. 317 327 see generally ibid .

For use in medicine the salts of the SARM may be pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Other salts may however be useful in the preparation of the compounds according to the invention or of their pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of this invention include acid addition salts which may for example be formed by mixing a solution of the compound according to the invention with a solution of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as hydrochloric acid sulphuric acid methanesulphonic acid fumaric acid maleic acid succinic acid acetic acid benzoic acid oxalic acid citric acid tartaric acid carbonic acid or phosphoric acid.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

Binding affinities of select B ring halogenated SARMS were determined and are represented in Table 1 

Animals. Immature male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 90 to 100 g were purchased from Harlan Biosciences Indianapolis Ind. . The animals were maintained on a 12 hour light dark cycle with food and water available ad libitum. The animal protocol was reviewed and approved by the Institutional Laboratory Animal Care and Use Committee.

Study Design. Rats were randomly distributed into treatment groups groups. One day prior to the start of drug treatment animals were individually removed from the cage weighed and anesthetized with an intraperitoneal dose of ketamine xylazine 87 13 mg kg approximately 1 mL per kg . When appropriately anesthetized i.e. no response to toe pinch the animals ears were marked for identification purposes. Animals were then placed on a sterile pad and their abdomen and scrotum washed with betadine and 70 alcohol. The testes were removed via a midline scrotal incision with sterile suture being used to ligate supra testicular tissue prior to surgical removal of each testis. The surgical wound site was closed with sterile stainless steel wound clips and the site cleaned with betadine. The animals were allowed to recover on a sterile pad until able to stand and then returned to their cage.

Twenty four hours later animals were re anesthetized with ketamine xylazine and an Alzet osmotic pump s model 2002 was placed subcutaneouly in the scapular region. In this instance the scapular region was shaved and cleaned betadine and alcohol and a small incision 1 cm made using a sterile scalpel. The osmotic pump was inserted and the wound closed with a sterile stainless steel wound clip. Animals were allowed to recover and were returned to their cage. Osmotic pumps contained the appropriate treatment dissolved in polyethylene glycol 300 PEG300 . Osmotic pumps were filled with the appropriate solution one day prior to implantation. Animals were monitored daily for signs of acute toxicity to drug treatment e.g. lethargy rough coat .

After 14 days of drug treatment rats were anesthetized with ketamine xylazine. Animals were then sacrificed by exsanguinations under anesthesia. A blood sample was collected by venipuncture of the abdominal aorta and submitted for complete blood cell analysis. A portion of the blood was placed in a separate tube centrifuged at 12 000 g for 1 minute and the plasma layer removed and frozen at 20 C. The ventral prostates seminal vesicles levator ani muscle liver kidneys spleen lungs and heart were removed cleared of extraneous tissue weighed and placed in vials containing 10 neutral buffered formalin. Preserved tissues were sent to GTx Inc. for histopathological analysis.

For data analysis the weights of all organs were normalized to body weight and analyzed for any statistical significant difference by single factor ANOVA. The weights of prostate and seminal vesicle were used as indexes for evaluation of androgenic activity and the levator ani muscle weight was used to evaluate the anabolic activity.

The androgenic and anabolic activities of compounds 1 4 were examined in a castrated rat model after 14 days of administration. The results are shown in A D as a percent of the Intact Contol not castrated untreated . 0 mg day denotes Castrated Controls castrated untreated .

As shown in the weights of prostate seminal vesicle and levator ani muscle in castrated rats decreased significantly due to the ablation of endogenous androgen production. Treatment with increasing dosages of compounds 1 4 respectively resulted in a tissue selective increase in levator ani muscle weights with little or no stimulation of prostate and seminal vesicle growth i.e. the prostate and seminal vesicle weights were less than 40 of that observed in intact animals for compound 2 and less than 20 for compounds 1 3 and 4 . Thus these compounds showed little potency and intrinsic activity in increasing the weights of prostate and seminal vesicle but a great potency and intrinsic activity in increasing the weight of levator ani muscle. Particularly compound 2 was able to maintain the levator ani muscle weight of castrated animals in the same level as that of intact animals. Thus compounds 1 4 are potent nonsteroidal anabolic agents. This is a significant improvement over previous compounds in that these compound selectively stimulate muscle growth and other anabolic effects while having less effect on the prostate and seminal vesicles. This may be particularly relevant in aging men with concerns related to the development or progression of prostate cancer.

The androgenic and anabolic activities of compound 5 was examined in a castrated rat model after 14 days of administration using the method outlined in Example 1 above.

As shown in Table 3 and in compound 5 demonstrated tissue selective pharmacological effects in castrated male rats with higher efficacy in anabolic tissues i.e. levator ani as compared to androgenic tissues i.e. prostate and seminal vesicles . Compound 5 demonstrated little pharmacologic activity in the prostate 8.7 1.39 of intact at 1.0 mg day dose and sminal vesicles 10.7 0.91 of intact at 1.0 mg day dose suggesting that it acts as a weak partial agonist in these tissues. Importantly compound 5 demonstrates highly efficacious anabolic activity at 1.0 mg day dose returning the levator ani muscle to 75.2 9.51 of that observed in intact animals.

The androgenic and anabolic activities of compound 6 was examined in a castrated rat model after 14 days of administration using the method outlined in Example 1 above.

As shown in the weights of prostate seminal vesicle and levator ani muscle in castrated vehicle treated rats decreased significantly due to the ablation of endogenous androgen production. Exogenous administration of testosterone propionate an androgenic and anabolic steroid increased the weights of prostate seminal vesicle and levator ani muscle in castrated rats in a dose dependent manner. Treatment with compound 6 resulted in dose dependent increases in prostate seminal vesicle and levator ani muscle weights. Compared with testosterone propionate compound 6 showed lower potency and intrinsic activity in increasing the weights of prostate and seminal vesicle but a greater potency and intrinsic activity in increasing the weight of levator ani muscle. Particularly compound V at a dose as low as 0.3 mg day was able to maintain the levator ani muscle weight of castrated animals in the same level as that of intact animals. Thus compound 6 is a potent nonsteroidal anabolic agent with less androgenic activity but more anabolic activity than testosterone propionate. As in compounds 1 5 above this is a significant improvement in that this compound selectively stimulates muscle growth and other anabolic effects while having less effect on the prostate and seminal vesicles.

The in vitro androgen receptor binding affinity of other SARM compounds was studied and the results are presented in Table 5.

The purpose of this study was to examine the in vitro and in vivo pharmacologic activities of four compounds N 1 through N 4 incorporating 4 nitro and or 4 cyano substituents in the A and B ring.

Relative binding affinity RBA was calculated as RBA Ki of DHT Ki of compound of interest and determined using H mibolerone and androgen receptor AR isolated from rat ventral prostate. In vivo pharmacologic activities were determined by weight increase of intact control of anabolic levator ani muscle and androgenic prostate seminal vesicle target tissues of castrated that received 1 mg day of tested compounds for 14 days.

The RBA of N 1 N 2 N 3 and N 4 was 30 26 32 and 17 respectively. The compounds demonstrated little pharmacologic activity in the prostate and seminal vesicles but significantly increased the weight of the levator ani muscle to 105 13 119 16 130 5 and 142 17 respectively of that observed in intact controls. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that the clearance of compounds incorporating a 4 nitro substituent in the A or B ring was significantly higher than that of the di cyano substituted compound N 4 Compound III described hereinabove .

Inclusion of a 4 nitro substituent in the A ring of these derivatives increased in vitro AR binding affinity but resulted in increased in vivo clearance. All compounds demonstrated potent and tissue selective in vivo pharmacologic effects. In vivo activity did not correlate with in vitro binding affinity. However N 4 demonstrated the greatest activity and lowest in vivo clearance corroborating the importance of in vivo pharmacokinetics and metabolism to SARM activity.

The purpose of this study is to examine the in vitro and in vivo pharmacologic activities of compounds N 1 through N 4 incorporating 4 nitro and or 4 cyano substituents in the A and B ring versus the incorporation of a methyl substituent on the A ring.

The RBA of N 5 and N 6 are determined as was conducted for N 1 N 2 N 3 and N 4 in Example 5. Since all the compounds exemplified and described herein are structurally similar they are similarly expected to demonstrate tissue selective in vivo pharmacologic effects. Compounds with CN substituents may have less in vivo clearance than other SARM compounds substituted with acetamido groups for example. Nonetheless the incorporation of a CHsubstituent is not expected to significantly alter the activity of other similarly substituted compounds such as those comprising a perfluoroalkyl group.

It will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited by what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the claims that follow 

