---

title: Method and apparatus for monitoring device status
abstract: The monitor is for monitoring the status of a first client telephone, and for sending this status information via a central server to an authorized second client telephone. The central server stores a database of registered client telephones and corresponding client telephones that the client may monitor. A user of a registered client telephone monitors in real time the telephone status of registered friends, family, or co-workers that have agreed to be monitored by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204199&OS=08204199&RS=08204199
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08204199
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060601
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 338 151 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING TELEPHONE STATUS filed Jan. 24 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 260 201 on Aug. 21 2007 

which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 090 795 filed Mar. 5 2002 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 010 110 on Mar. 7 2006 

which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 282 360 filed Mar. 31 1999 now abandoned.

This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 421 517 filed Jun. 10 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 421 535 filed Jun. 10 2006.

Conventional telephone systems can provide a caller s status information but do so in a costly manner that requires significant user time. For example the office based PBX telephone system provides a caller with status information.

Determining whether the party s line is busy or available requires a caller s telephone to poll a central station and wait for a call back to receive status information.

At present the telephone industry is in the process of switching to digital technology i.e. Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Asymmetric Digital Loop ASDL . ISDN is an international communications standard for sending voice and data over telephone lines. ISDN technology transmits data at a rate far faster than prior telephone connection technologies. ISDN lines generally include three channels two bearer B channels and one data D channel. Each B channel carries voice and data at a bandwidth of 64 kbps thousands of bits per second and the D channel handles signal control information. ISDN s two B channels enable the caller to simultaneously receive and send information. Currently digitally enabled telephones are being produced.

The telephone disclosed in various embodiments of the present invention may be configured in accordance with a plug and play protocol. The user of the telephone simply plugs the telephone into a telephone jack. The telephone automatically connects to the central server receives TCP IP information from the server for future communications and registers the client. The client then selects the parties that the client wishes to monitor.

The client may select parties to monitor by programming the parties telephone numbers into the client s local telephone or by a directory lookup by name. The client s telephone communicates these telephone numbers to the central server and the central server verifies that the parties agree to be monitored. Once the parties agree the parties register with the system. The client may also select parties to monitor by contacting the service associated with the central server off line and submitting a request to monitor the specified parties. The central service may verify the agreement of the parties to be monitored by contacting them off line e.g. via telephone call postal mail e mail .

Alternatively the process to select parties to monitor may be initiated by the monitored party. The party to be monitored submits a request to the central server. In return the central server remotely programs the monitoring party s telephone with the monitored party s status and identification information. It will be appreciated that the monitoring party may locally program its telephone. If the monitored party requests a monitoring party that is currently not a client to the status monitoring service the service contacts the monitoring party off line to determine if this party wishes to become a client to the service to receive status updates from the monitored party.

Referring first to a schematic diagram of the digital phone monitoring system of an embodiment of the present invention may be generally appreciated. It will be appreciated that an embodiment of the present invention defines a first telephone as a monitored client telephone and defines a second telephone as a monitoring telephone . In particular communication links between three monitoring client telephones a central server and three monitored client telephones are shown in . Whenever a change in status of a monitored client telephone occurs monitored client telephone communicates the status change via central server to each monitoring client telephone registered to receive status updates of that monitored client telephone . It will be appreciated that the number of monitored client telephones and monitoring client telephone shown in were arbitrarily chosen and that alternative embodiments of the present invention may include any number of monitored and any number of monitoring client telephones.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand the benefits of receiving the status of another telephone. For example teenagers may monitor their friends to determine which of their friends phone lines are busy. When a teenager wants to call a friend prior to even picking up and dialing the phone the teenager automatically knows which friends are available to talk. The teenager may be presented with a list of friends so that the teenager can instantly see which ones are available. In another example a mother may want to monitor her home telephone while at work. The mother may be interested in determining whether the phone is busy or may wish to monitor the amount of time that her son daughter or babysitter is on the phone per day.

It will also be appreciated that status information may be input at monitored client telephone . For example when a child arrives home the child may enter a DTMF code into monitored client telephone e.g. 68 . The code representing a status update is sent to central server . Central server forwards the status information to the child s mother s monitoring client telephone thereby informing the mother that her child has arrived at home.

In another example a supervisor may monitor when a telecommuting employee or consultant is working. For instance the employee or consultant enters a predetermined code into monitored client telephone when arriving at work. Monitored client telephone sends the code to central server . Central server searches a DTMF code database as shown in retrieving the status corresponding to the code. Once retrieved central server sends the status to monitoring client telephone . The status allows the supervisor to know when to contact the employee or consultant. Alternatively this embodiment of the invention may provide the supervisor with additional information. For example accounting and billing processes may calculate the total number of hours the employee worked. The status may also affect the billing rate for the called party. For example calling a consultant while her status is unavailable may result in a higher charge e.g. a higher hourly billing rate for that caked time. A billing program may obtain such information as total time with a certain status e.g. a status of working and or the total time on the phone with a particular status e.g. lunchtime and or the applicable billing rate or other fee structure. Such a billing program could then generate an appropriate bill based thereon and output a bill in printed electronic file email fax or other forms. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these examples are provided purely for illustrative purposes and should not be understood to limit the breadth of the invention.

Status information may also be automatically determined by client telephone central server a monitoring client telephone or any combination of the foregoing whether cooperating or not. For example the location or approximate location of a phone e.g. a cellular phone with GPS capability cellular phones with other location abilities calculating the Doppler effect of a signal received from a cellular phone may be ascertained by the central server by e.g. receiving a signal from the cellular phone that indicates the location or approximate location of the cell phone. Alternatively the phone may broadcast a signal which is received by a receiver. The strength and or time of reception of the signal may allow the central server to determine the distance of the phone from the receiver. The mere fact that a signal is received may also indicate the location of the phone. In certain embodiment a low strength receiver that receives a signal or a receiver that receives a signal from a low power transmitter may indicate that the transmitter is within a certain area. For example a base unit may be equipped to receive a signal from a handset unit only if the handset is within one hundred feet of the base. In another example a base unit may readily determine when the handset is physically plugged into the base.

It is additionally possible to use a plurality of such receivers to more accurately determine the location of the phone through known locating techniques including but not limited to triangulation. Referring now to a diagram of a Telephony Application Programming Interface TAPI connected to monitoring client telephone monitored client telephone and central server may be generally appreciated. Those of ordinary skill in the art will readily contemplate based on the present disclosure other interfaces besides the specific TAPI illustrated in . Central server includes a plurality of communication applications such as a call control application an interactive voice application a voice mail application a call center application and a TCP IP conferencing application . Central server also includes a registration service a notification service an encryption decryption service a queue manager a start up self test service a monitoring service a TCP IP database a client database a digital signature a call accounting service and a DTMF code database . A TAPI interface connects each of the above components to TAPI . A detailed description of the services managers and databases in conjunction with will be provided below.

As shown TAPI enables applications to access all the telephony options available on any machine. For example the communication applications including call control application interactive voice application voice mail application call center application and TCP IP conferencing application may access all telephony options available on monitoring telephone and monitored client telephone . For instance the applications may access monitored client database stored on monitoring client telephone .

The data on a call is available to applications in a standard manner. TAPI is an architecture that provides simple and generic methods for making connections between two or more machines and provides each machine access to any media stream involved in that connection. TAPI abstracts call control functionality to provide a common interface to applications that utilize different and seemingly incompatible communication protocols. This interface connects monitored client telephone and monitoring client telephone to central server .

Referring now to a diagram of a client telephone of an embodiment of the present invention may be better appreciated. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that client telephone may comprise either a monitoring client telephone or a monitored client telephone . Client telephone may be implemented as one or more separate devices. For example client telephone may be a single device or comprise a combination such as a telephone in communication with a separate sensor input device which is itself in communication with a separate transmitter device. Many more variations are contemplated by the present disclosure.

Client telephone operates under a multi tasking multithreaded operating system platform e.g. UNIX or WINDOWS NT by MICROSOFT of Redmond Wash. . As shown client telephone includes a display device an input device a processor and a data storage device . Processor is connected to a communication port e.g. network interface .

Input device may comprise a keyboard comprising a plurality of DTMF coded buttons. Alternatively or in addition input device may comprise a means for receiving other types of input. For example input device may comprise a GPS receiver for receiving information from a global positioning system. Such a GPS receiver typically receives broadcast signals that allow it to determine latitude longitude altitude and time. Similarly input device may comprise a receiver that receives various wireless signals such as radio signals or infrared signals. Such receivers may be capable of receiving signals transmitted by cell phones appliance remote controls such as television remote controls remote car lock actuators remote garage door openers PDAs and other devices.

Input device may comprise sensors or detectors that detect stimulus such as motion sensors whether based on Doppler effects or other types of motion sensors sensors that measure movement or actuation of a door or garage door electrical sensors that detect activation or deactivation of air conditioners lights and other devices general electrical sensors that detect power consumption weight sensors temperature sensors and combinations and equivalents thereof.

Input device may comprise means for detecting the powering up or activation of the client telephone . For example the input device may comprise a detector in communication with a circuit that activates or powers up a device component of a device or plurality of components of a device. Accordingly input device may comprise means for detecting the powering up or activation of i a telephone such as a desktop phone cellular phone or wireless phone ii a computer or iii a television.

Input device may comprise a microphone or other audio reception device possibly but not necessarily separate from the conventional microphone of a telephone for receiving spoken sounds. Such a microphone can be operational to detect process and or transmit sound even if the phone is in an inactive state such as when it is not in use or when a receiver is cradled.

Display device is an LCD or other type of display that shows the status of each party being monitored by client telephone in accordance with the data stored in monitored client database . For example the display shows a name and the current status of each party being monitored. It will be appreciated that client telephone might not include display device .

Communications port provides the network interface to central server using TCP IP over the D channel on an ISDN telephone line. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the telecommunication specifications are provided purely for illustrative purposes and that alternative embodiments of this invention may include different telecommunication methods.

Data storage device includes a monitoring service that processor executes to provide client digital phone with monitoring functionality. Data storage device also includes a startup self test service display manager digital signature encryption decryption service monitored client database call accounting service a TAPI interface a communications applications a registration service a queue manager a DTMF code database and a notification service . The communications applications the registration service the queue manager the DTMF code database and the notification service are utilized by the client telephone in ways similar to those of the corresponding elements of the central server as described below.

Startup self test service at startup tests all hardware of client telephone and loads the operating system and services. If connected via TAPI interface to central server startup occurs when client telephone is powered on. A startup may also occur if a user presses a re boot key not shown located on client telephone . Startup self test process typically includes three types of tests. It performs a checksum on EPROM checks the ISDN line to confirm that the link with central server on D and both B channels is up and running and confirms that a service provider identification SPID matches the SPID pre programmed on client telephone . A SPID is typically composed of the telephone number of client telephone followed by four additional digits. It will be appreciated that central server assigns client telephone TCP IP information during the initial connection between client telephone and central server and client telephone subsequently stores that information. It will also be appreciated that at startup client telephone sends its TCP IP information to central server and central server verifies that the TCP IP information matches the assigned TCP IP information of client telephone . One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that in addition to ISDN startup self test service may be applied to other types of communication technology.

If client telephone is a monitoring client telephone after startup self test service is executed by processor monitoring client telephone requests that central server send status updates of the monitored client telephones that it is authorized to receive. Monitoring client telephone seizes the D channel of the ISDN line and sends its DTMF codes. Central server reads the registration information and routes the call to registration service via a communications e.g. a DS 1 or DS 3 line. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the demand for communication lines at the time central server transmits the code information determines which line is chosen. Registration service senses the incoming call and causes central server to go off hook on that line. Once off hook registration service opens a communication link between central server and monitoring client telephone .

Once monitoring client telephone senses that the D channel communication link with central server is established it builds and encrypts an acknowledgment message with its SPID and a digital signature. Encryption decryption service of monitoring client telephone uses the public key of central server to encrypt a message and generate a digital signature bundled with the message. Encryption decryption service of central server uses the private key of central server to decrypt the message and validate the signature. The digital signature provides the security clearance of monitoring client telephone s identity.

If encryption decryption service of central server successfully decrypts the message and verifies the digital signature of monitoring client telephone central server sends an acknowledgment ACK message and its digital signature back to monitoring client telephone . If the verification fails server instead sends a no acknowledgment NAK and its digital signature back to monitoring client telephone and drops the line. If monitoring client telephone receives an ACK it verifies the digital signature of central server . If the verification is a success monitoring client telephone returns an ACK message to server . If the verification fails monitoring client telephone returns a NAK message to server and drops the line. If the communications between central server and monitoring client telephone resulted in ACKs a session is established between monitoring client telephone and registration service of central server .

Registration service queries client database to confirm that the account of monitoring client telephone is in good standing. Although not shown a preferred embodiment of client database may include client billing and account information. It will be appreciated that the telephone company will typically provide the status monitoring service only to clients that have paid their telephone bills. Registration service then sends a clear to send CTS message to monitoring client telephone that it is ready and waiting. Monitoring client telephone receives the message and creates and sends a monitor message MM to registration service . Registration service receives the message and queries client database to obtain the current status of the monitored client telephones that monitoring client telephone is authorized to receive. Alternatively the message from monitoring client telephone may include a request for a status update of specific monitored client telephones .

After entering the appropriate status information into a message registration service uses the public key of monitoring client telephone to encrypt the message and return the message. Monitoring client telephone receives the message and decrypts it with its private key.

Monitoring client telephone then updates monitored client database and outputs the status of each party. Monitoring client telephone then sends a message to registration service of central server acknowledging successful receipt of the status updates. Call accounting service updates client database to bill for the successful inquiry and drops the session by clearing the channel. Monitoring client telephone recognizes that the channel is down and enters into a wait state until notification service sends it updated status information. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that once monitoring client telephone restarts and resets with status updates of monitored client telephones monitoring client telephone begins to automatically receive status updates without the need to poll central server .

Monitored client database includes monitoring information stored on storage device of client telephone . See for an exemplary view of monitored client database . As shown the monitoring information includes monitored client SPID monitored client name and status of the monitored client. It will be appreciated that alternative embodiments of this invention may include other varied types of monitoring information. For example monitored client database may also include information such as total number of hours a monitored phone is busy or total number of hours that a monitored telephone of an employee had an associated status of working .

Display manager accesses monitored client database and displays this information on display device of client telephone if display is the method of outputting status . Display manager may also display messages originating from central server . For example display manager may receive and display messages from central server during registration of client telephone .

Digital signature provides client digital telephone with the ability to verify the identity of a sender of TCP IP message packets by creating and utilizing private and public keys. Digital signature is included with encrypted messages sent between client telephone and central server . At client telephone the recipient s public key is used to encrypt a message and generate a digital signature string that is bundled therein. Upon receipt of the message the recipient such as central server or another client telephone uses its private key to decrypt the message and validate the signature. Validating the signature verifies the message sender s identity.

Call accounting service on client telephone maintains up to date billing information. For example call accounting service of central server sends telephone usage and billing updates to client s telephone and stores the updates on storage device . In response to a subscriber s request display manager accesses and displays the information on display device . It will be appreciated that central server in an embodiment of this invention routinely initiates the transmission of accounting information to call accounting service . In still another embodiment call accounting central service retrieves telephone usage and billing updates from central server in response to a request from the subscriber of client telephone .

A communication device permits the phone to transmit and receive signals. Communication device may comprise means for transmitting and receiving data over a cable wire or similar medium as might be appropriate for a desktop phone. Alternatively communication device may comprise means for transmitting and receiving data wirelessly via infrared radio or similar signals as might be appropriate for a cellular phone or other wireless device. In one embodiment peripheral and display may compose an integral unit which is adapted to be connected to phone . For example an integral unit may comprise a single casing which encloses therein the peripheral and the display while the casing defines an opening allowing a portion on the viewable area of the display to be seen outside the casing.

Such an integral unit or at least one of the individual peripheral and display may be fitted to the phone and detachably held thereto by the shape of the integral unit relative to the phone . Alternatively fitting to the phone detachably holding thereto may be accomplished by a fixing means such as a snap or similar means. Physical contact need not be required for communication between the phone and the peripheral .

Referring now to a diagram of central server may be better appreciated. Central server operates under a multi tasking multithreaded operating system platform e.g. UNIX or WINDOWS NT by MICROSOFT of Redmond Wash. . As shown central server includes an input device e.g. CD ROM or floppy disk drive keyboard processor connected to a communications port and a storage device . Communications port provides a network interface using TCP IP over the D channel on an ISDN telephone line to connect central server to monitored client telephone and to monitoring client telephone . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the telecommunication specifications are provided purely for illustrative purposes and that alternative embodiments of this invention may include different types of telecommunication methods.

Storage device includes monitoring service TAPI interface encryption decryption service start up self test service queue manager notification service registration service client database TCP IP information database communication applications call accounting service digital signature and DTMF code database . Monitoring service provides central server with a monitoring process in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention. TAPI interface as discussed above enables applications such as monitoring service to access all the telephony options available on any client telephone. For example it provides monitoring service with access to updated monitored client database stored on client telephone .

Encryption decryption service employs private and public keys to respectively decrypt and encrypt messages that are sent to client telephone . This process also employs a digital signature to verify the message sender s identity. Central server receives a digital string encrypted with a message from client telephone . Upon receipt of the message central server uses its private key to decrypt the message and validate digital signature . Similarly when central server sends a message to client telephone central server utilizes the public key of client telephone to encrypt the message and generate a digital signature string that is bundled therein. Client telephone uses its private key to decrypt the message and validate the server s identity.

Startup self test service initializes all components at startup and checks predetermined parameters when booting up. Tests include confirming that the ISDN line over D and both B channels that connect central server and client telephones is operating within predetermined parameters and verifying that incoming messages to central server are originated from authorized SPIDs. For example at startup startup self test service of client telephone sends a SPID verification message to central server . Startup self test service of central server verifies that the SPID is authorized to receive monitoring information.

Registration service registers monitored client telephones and monitoring client telephones and maintains a list of current accounts and a list of the active connections between subscribers. Registration service stores the list of current accounts on client database and stores the list of active connections on TCP IP information database . shows an example of client database and shows an example of TCP IP information database .

If the status of monitored client telephone changes notification service receives a status information update. Notification service notifies queue manager to transmit the status update to the appropriate monitoring client telephones . Queue manager receives notification of the status change from notification service queries client database for the appropriate SPID s to contact and transmits an indication of the change in status to the authorized clients designated by the appropriate SPID s .

Call accounting service maintains and sends billing information in real time to each client. More particularly call accounting service sends accounting and billing information in update packets to the client s telephone either i periodically e.g. daily or 2 in response to a client request. Accordingly a client can always view in real time the specific charges associated with a call or view the running total for monthly bill. It will be appreciated that call accounting service employed by client telephone provides a subscriber with numerous functions for viewing and processing specific charges.

Referring now to a diagram of an exemplary monitored client database stored within monitoring client telephone may be better appreciated. As shown each entry of monitored client database specifies a monitored client telephone that is assigned to send status information to a monitoring client telephone . In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention monitored client database includes for each party being monitored a monitored client SPID a monitored client name and the current status of monitored client telephone . It will be appreciated that for a given monitored client SPID monitoring client telephone may monitor more than one status. For example the last entry of monitored client database includes more than one status.

A number of methods are available to enter data into monitored client database . For example in one method a client using input device locally inputs monitored client SPIDs and corresponding monitored client names into monitored client database . In an alternative method central server in response to a request from monitoring client telephone remotely updates the SPIDs of monitored client database .

A client requests status monitoring by either calling a telephone company s toll free number to verbally request monitoring or by electronically submitting a request via an Interactive Voice Response IVR unit. It will be appreciated that a Voice Response Unit VRU may also be used. However before monitoring of a particular SPID occurs central server must receive permission from the party at monitored client telephone . The central telephone office requests permission by electronically sending a request via central server to monitored client telephone or by contacting the party using another method. Other methods may include for example a telephone call an e mail or a letter. If central server receives permission it sends an authorizing signal to monitoring client telephone . Once authorized monitoring client telephone receives status updates from central server and enters the updates into monitored party database . Display device of the monitoring client telephone displays each status update .

Alternatively monitored client telephone may initiate the request to be monitored by monitoring client telephone . When central server electronically receives the request or the central telephone service receives the request using another manner the service requests permission to send monitoring client telephone status updates of monitored client telephone . As discussed above the request for permission may be electronically submitted by central server or provided using another manner.

It will be appreciated that a subscriber at monitoring client telephone may monitor a status change of a particular predetermined condition. For example a subscriber may choose to monitor the busy status of monitored client telephone . Alternatively a subscriber may choose to monitor when the person at monitored client telephone enters a DTMF code indicative of a working status. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that these examples are purely illustrative of different status changes and that alternative embodiments of the present invention may include status changes of other predetermined conditions.

Referring now to a diagram of an exemplary client database stored on central server may be better appreciated. As shown this database includes entries for each monitored client telephone that is registered with central server . Each entry includes the party being monitored identifiable by monitored client SPID the party receiving the status updates identifiable by monitoring client SPID and the particular status changes monitoring client telephone will receive shown as monitored status and a current status . It will be appreciated that the current status of an entry of client database may include more than one status. The process of updating and maintaining client database will be discussed in conjunction with the description of the registration process shown in .

Referring now to a diagram of exemplary DTMF code database stored at central server may be better appreciated. As shown this database includes a status assigned to each DTMF code . Notification service of central server uses DTMF code database to translate incoming DTMF codes to an appropriate status. It will be appreciated that a DTMF code may represent information other than a status. For example a DTMF code may represent a request for billing information.

Referring now to a diagram of exemplary TCP IP information database stored at central server may be better appreciated. As shown this database includes entries for each client telephone registered with central server . Each entry includes a SPID address and a corresponding TCP IP address . A TCP IP address information is issued to each client telephone registered with central server . It will be appreciated that central server communicates with other nodes and clients based on their assigned TCP IP address . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the header portion of messages sent between monitored and monitoring client telephones and central server typically include a TCP IP address . When receiving or sending a message central server uses the SPID address listed in the TCP IP database to verify that the TCP IP address included within the message s header portion is correct.

Referring now to a flowchart of a status monitoring process may be generally appreciated. As shown in step central server registers the subscriber of monitoring client telephone . In step the subscriber of monitoring client telephone selects the parties the subscriber wishes to monitor. In step central server registers the parties to be monitored. It will be appreciated that prior to registering these parties central server may request each party s permission to be monitored by the subscriber of monitoring client telephone . In step central server receives TCP IP packets from monitored client telephone . In step central server transmits the TCP IP packets to the monitoring client telephone configured to receive the status updates. Once received monitoring client telephone displays the status to the subscriber. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that shows the general steps of an embodiment of the present invention and that described below will explain each step in greater detail.

It will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments of the present invention monitored client telephone may register prior to monitoring client telephone . Furthermore monitored client telephone may select the parties that it wishes to provide status updates. Prior to sending the status updates monitoring client telephone must register and provide central server of the central telephone permission to receive the status information.

When a party at a client telephone wishes to register as a subscriber of a monitored client telephone in step or as a monitoring client telephone in step client telephone seizes the D channel of the ISDN line and sends the registration information to central server of a telephone station s central office. Central server reads the registration information and routes the call to registration service via a DS 1 or DS 3 line. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the demand for communication lines at the time central server transmits the code information determines which line is chosen. Registration service senses the incoming call and central server goes off hook on that line. Once off hook registration service opens a communication link between central server and the party wishing to register.

The request for a party s permission to be monitored by the subscriber may be accomplished in a variety of ways. The party may affirmatively register his willingness to be monitored whether or not a request for permission has been directed to him. Accordingly a subscriber need not select parties to monitor the parties may indicate that they are to be monitored.

For example the party may enter an indication of one or more subscribers that are authorized to monitor the party. Such an indication may be entered via a phone for example by actuating numeric keys e.g. on input device to indicate the phone number of such authorized subscribers. Such an indication may also be entered via a phone for example by communicating with a VRU Voice Response Unit . Such a method of entry could be performed via any public or private phone whether or not the that phone had other capabilities described herein. An indication of one or more subscribers that are authorized to monitor the party may be entered via a computer communicating with a web site which in turn provides the information to e.g. central server .

The indication of subscribers that are authorized to monitor the party may be made automatically without much or any input from the party. For example the party may set or accept a threshold such that people the party calls or people that call the party more than the threshold are authorized to monitor the party.

Many other methods of entry and many other types of devices used in such entry will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

A list of one or more subscribers that are authorized to monitor the party may be stored locally on the party s phone or other device and or stored remotely on central server .

Various parties may be authorized to monitor only certain kinds of statuses of a particular monitored party. For example a first group may be authorized to monitor all statuses of a particular party while a second group may be authorized to monitor only certain statuses of that party. In another embodiment various parties may be able to attain different levels of access by paying. For example telemarketers and other businesses may be able to pay to ascertain certain statuses of a party. The status of a monitored party may be employed as a block against certain calls. In certain embodiments it is not necessary for a monitoring party to register at all. The block applies to certain callers or all callers irrespective of whether any party registered in any way to receive status. In one embodiment a status may simply indicate that no calls are allowed to get through to the monitored party i.e. all calls blocked . In another embodiment a status may indicate that only certain people are blocked or that only certain people are unblocked i.e. may call .

In some embodiments certain parties may be allowed to always get through a block. For example it may be desirable for the monitored party to always permit a spouse and parent to circumvent a block. In always granting such parties access their phones could be always granted access to the monitored party e.g. by receiving an identifying signal e.g. ANI SPID from such phone and comparing that signal with a list of authorized phones or those parties could be provided with special access codes. Upon calling the monitored party when a block is in effect the party would enter the access code and be granted access by allowing there call to get through.

A monitoring party that attempts to call the monitored party but is blocked may e.g. receive a busy signal receive a particular kind of busy signal or receive a particular audio message.

Certain locations or certain times may be marked as blocked thereby preventing some or all calls from going through. For example from a phone which has a location that may be determined a party may enter a code that indicates the current location as a blocked location or a location where a certain status is to be established. For example a party may enter an office building and enter a code via a wireless phone. This could establish a status of unavailable while the party is in the building.

The location of the phone upon entry of the code may be determined such that e.g. that location alone is an area in which the status would be established as unavailable . Optionally a radius may be set such that when the phone is within the radius of that location the status would be established as unavailable . Such a radius may be predetermined or alterable e.g. by the party .

As described herein once the status changes for example if a party moves out of an office building previously marked as having a status of unavailable an email message or other transmission may be automatically sent to monitoring parties.

In one embodiment a group of certain parties may be established and a member of the group may determine who in the group is calling another and who is free. The identity of those called by other group members may or may not be made available.

In certain embodiments establishing such a group can allow a member of the group to sort a list of the other members in order of e.g. frequency of calls to the parties frequency of calls from the parties frequency of calls to or from the parties and or frequency of calls from the parties to any member of the group.

In certain embodiments it can be advantageous to rate members of the group based on e.g. calls with others calls to other customers on the phone network provider e.g. Verizon or calls with other members of the group. The rating may be based on e.g. number of such calls duration of such calls. A rating according to this embodiment may confer rewards such as discounted or free products discounted or free services from the phone network provider. The rank may be displayed or otherwise made known to member of the group conferring psychological rewards or penalties upon members.

In one embodiment a group of members may eavesdrop on other members who are communicating with one another via e.g. voice text messaging. Such eavesdropping may be automatically allowed or may require permission from those engaged in communicating. It may also be advantageous to allow members of the group to access a log of prior communication e.g. recorded voice recorded text messages to allow eavesdropper to catch up on what had been communicating prior to eavesdropping.

Referring now to the registration process performed by registration service of central server may be better appreciated. In step registration service receives a request from a registering client telephone for a TCP IP address and a security clearance. The security clearance process utilizes a digital signature and encryption to secure the messages sent between client telephone and central server . More particularly once client telephone senses that the D channel communication link with central server is established it builds and encrypts an acknowledgment message with its SPID and a digital signature.

Client Telephone uses a public key of central server to encrypt a message and generate a digital signature bundled with the message. The recipient of the message uses its private key to decrypt the message and validate the signature. The digital signature provides the security clearance of the message sender s identity. It will be appreciated that all communications between central server and client telephone are encrypted and include a digital signature.

At registration if encryption decryption service decrypts the message and verifies the digital signature of client telephone central server sends an acknowledgment ACK message and its digital signature back to client telephone . If the verification fails central server instead sends a no acknowledgment NAK and its digital signature back to client telephone and drops the line. If client telephone receives an ACK it verifies the digital signature of central server . If the verification is a success client telephone returns an ACK message to central server . If the verification fails client telephone returns a NAK message to central server and drops the line. If these communications resulted in ACKs a session is established between client telephone and registration service of central server .

In step registration service receives a SPID MAC Media Access Control Layer address from registering client telephone . It will be appreciated that the SPID MAC was either pre programmed into registering client telephone or was previously assigned by central server . In step registration service checks the SPID MAC format. In step if the format is incorrect registration service sends an unable to process request message to client telephone . If the format is correct in step registration service issues client telephone a TCP IP address.

In step registration service stores the SPID of client telephone into the appropriate field of client database . If client telephone is a monitored client telephone registration service stores the SPID as a monitored client SPID . If client telephone is a monitoring client telephone registration service stores the SPID as a monitoring client SPID . In step registration service stores the SPID address and the corresponding TCP IP address in TCP IP address database . Once client database and TCP IP address database are updated registration service sends a registration acknowledgment message back to client telephone indicating that it is now registered.

After client telephone registers as a monitoring client telephone in step the subscriber of client telephone selects one or more parties that the subscriber wishes to monitor. At monitoring client telephone the subscriber may enter each parties phone number into monitored client database where each parties phone number is mapped to a SPID. Once entered monitoring client telephone sends these telephone numbers to registration service . Alternatively the subscriber may also select parties to monitor by contacting the service associated with registration service off line and submitting a request to monitor the specified parties.

Once registration service receives the request to monitor one or more parties registration service verifies that the parties agree to be monitored. If a party is a current subscriber of the status monitoring service registration service of central server may electronically send the permission request directly to that party s client telephone . Alternatively if a party is not a current subscriber the central service may verify that the party agrees to be monitored by contacting that person off line e.g. via telephone call postal mail e mail .

If the party agrees to be monitored by the subscriber of monitoring client telephone in step registration service registers the monitored party which the subscriber selected. It will be appreciated that if the party agrees to be monitored and does not currently included as an entry within the TCP IP information database of central server registration service registers this party by performing the steps of the registration process described above and shown in . For all monitored parties registration service updates client database with each party s monitored client SPID the status being monitored and the monitoring client SPID of the subscriber who will receive the status updates of the monitored client.

Once client database and TCP IP information database includes the appropriate identifiers assigned to each new party to be monitored registration service sends an indication to monitoring client telephone that the parties agreed to be monitored and are registered at central server . It will be appreciated that a number of methods exist to update monitoring client telephone with the SPIDs of the parties that will be monitored. For example in one method central server in response to a request from monitoring client telephone remotely updates monitored client database with the SPIDs and the corresponding monitored client names . In an alternative method the subscriber locally inputs monitored client SPIDs and corresponding monitored client names into monitored client database .

Referring now to a notification process performed by notification service of central server may be better appreciated. Once registration service registers the monitoring and monitored parties monitored client telephone automatically sends status updates via central server to the subscriber of monitoring client telephone . Monitored client telephone sends each status update in a TCP IP packet when its status changes.

It will be appreciated that the status change may be a DTMF code entered by the monitored party into monitored client telephone . For example a party when working may enter a DTMF code. It will also be appreciated that when a first monitored party initiates a call to a second monitored party monitored client telephone of the first monitored party will submit status updates of both parties to central server . Furthermore the status update may show that the first monitored party is electronically connected to the second monitored party.

Prior to sending a packet of status updates monitored client telephone uses a public key of central server to encrypt and provide a digital signature within the TCP IP packet. In step notification service of central server receives the encrypted TCP IP packet from monitored client telephone . Notification service uses the private key to decrypt and verify the packet s digital signature. Notification service also compares the SPID and TCP IP address information provider in the header portion of the TCP IP packet to the appropriate entry in the TCP IP database to verify the source of the status update. Once the source of the update is verified notification service stores the status to current status of the appropriate record s .

In step notification service queries client database to retrieve a record that includes monitored client telephone . In step notification service determines if this record applies to the status update it received. More specifically it determines if this status update corresponds to the status information that monitoring client telephone is configured to receive. If the status corresponds in step notification service transmits the TCP IP packet to queue manager . If the status does not correspond in step notification service determines if there is another record corresponding to monitored client telephone . If there is another record notification service determines if this record applies to the status update it received from monitored client telephone . It will be appreciated that this process continues until notification service reviews all records of client database that apply to monitored client telephone . Once the review of client database records is completed in step notification process ends.

Referring now to a queuing process performed by queue manager of central server may be better appreciated. The process begins in step when queue manager receives a TCP IP packet from notification service . This packet includes a status update and an origin and a destination SPID of respective monitored client telephone and monitoring client telephone . In step queue manager retrieves from TCP IP address database the TCP IP address of monitoring client telephone that corresponds to the destination SPID. In step queue manager transmits the TCP IP packet to the TCP IP address of the appropriate monitoring client telephone . In step if monitoring client telephone successfully received the TCP IP packet queue manager receives an acknowledgment of the successful transmission. Queue manager updates client database for billing purposes and drops the session with monitoring client telephone .

It will be appreciated that all communications between central server and each client may be encrypted. For example the TCP IP information that monitoring client telephone receives is encrypted. Monitoring client telephone uses its private key to decrypt and access the status update provided in the TCP IP packet. Of course one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the communications do not necessarily have to be encrypted. Monitoring client telephone updates monitored client database with the status update. Display manager of monitoring client telephone displays the status update on display device . Accordingly the subscriber of monitoring client telephone is capable of monitoring the status of the parties of monitored client telephones without even picking up the telephone.

Referring now to an embodiment of client digital phone may be better appreciated. As shown client digital phone includes a handset an LCD display DTMF buttons extension status indicators and a volume control . The screen of sample LCD display shows the current status of the parties of monitored client telephones . One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the four parties shown on LCD display are purely illustrative of the status information provided to subscribers and that any number of parties of monitored client telephones may be displayed. If the number of monitored parties requires more display space than is available on LCD display the status entries may continuously scroll. Alternatively client telephone may include scrolling buttons that allow a subscriber to scroll though pages of client digital phones that are being monitored.

It will be appreciated that an alternative embodiment of the present invention may utilize the Internet and other networks to transfer status information of a pre selected list of frequently called telephone numbers from central server of the central service to the party of monitoring client telephone . In this embodiment central server receives status information as described above but instead of sending the information to monitoring client telephone central server posts the status information to e.g. the monitoring party s web page account.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that central server may comprise a plurality of devices that are located in numerous geographical regions. Such devices would communicate with each other for the purpose of transmitting status update packets between different geographic regions. Accordingly each device includes in its client database records of all monitored and monitoring clients from all regions. When a device is notified of a status change of a monitored party it transmits the status update packet to the device servicing the region where the monitoring party is located. In one embodiment for the present invention each local region may include one device.

It will be appreciated that unique separate servers may support each region by communicating with each other. It will be further appreciated that a single server may support multiple regions or may be distributed across multiple regions.

A variety of different statuses and uses of statuses are consistent with the present disclosure. For example a status may indicate who the monitored party is communicating with. In one embodiment the central server could readily determine who the monitored party was communicating with and make that information available to authorized monitoring parties.

A status may indicate who the monitored party is located near. As described herein the location or approximate location of a phone may be determined. Accordingly it may be determined which phones are located near the monitored phone. Such a status would be advantageous to for example a parent monitoring a child.

A status may indicate the state of the battery of a battery powered phone. Such a status would be advantageous in allowing a monitoring party to determine whether a call to the monitored party would unduly deplete the battery of the monitored party.

A status may indicate the local time of the monitored party. For example a monitored party may have traveled to a different time zone and monitoring party can be informed of the local time of the monitored party. Such information would allow a monitoring party to exercise judgment as to whether it would be an appropriate time to call the monitored party. Such a status may also be used by the monitored party to block certain calls for example all calls after 11 00 PM of the local time of the monitored party.

A status may indicate whether the monitored party is using a text messaging or similar feature of a phone such as a wireless phone with text messaging or email capability. Such a status may indicate e.g. whether a monitored party is i available for text messaging ii currently entering text iii currently reading text iv scrolling and or v playing online games or engaging in other online activity.

A status may indicate whether the monitored party wants top receive calls or when the monitored party would like to receive calls. Such a capability may be extended only to certain kinds of calls. For example the monitored party may desire to receive a call from customer service or a call indicating a desired weather report or news report.

In one embodiment the status information may trigger a message sent to the monitoring party. Such a message may be via email instant messaging audio or other means.

Status information need not be displayed or might be displayed in conjunction with other types of output of status information. For example status information could be output through the speaker on the phone another speaker or other audio device. Thus status may be output as messages such as Bill is working right now Bill s is in New York and the local time is midnight or Bill s battery is low. Please use your judgment whether you should call him now. 

Status information may also be indicated by a busy signal or a different kind of busy signal than is normally output. Different busy signals may be used for different statuses. The selection of busy signals used for different statuses may be selected by the monitoring party and or the monitored party.

A status may indicate whether the monitored party is moving the speed and or the direction of movement. For example the location of a car phone or cellular phone may be periodically determined and thus a changing location can indicate that the monitored party is moving. Additionally the speed and direction of movement can likewise be easily determined. It may be desirable to block calls when in moving. It may also be desirable to prevent outgoing calls while in motion. Similarly it may be advantageous to require an override code to be entered into a phone while in motion in order to permit an outgoing call. For example a state law may prohibit talking on a phone while driving a car.

The particular patterns of status changes may be learned. For example if a certain location is established as having a status during certain times or a certain status is periodically established during certain times of the day these patterns may be learned by appropriate machine learning techniques as is well understood by those skilled in the art. Thus the party may be able to avoid manually entering status information and other information if the requisite pattern has been learned. Similarly once the pattern has been learned the future status at certain times may be predicted. Messages and other information may be adapted to this prediction. For example if it is learned that a status of unavailable occurs every work day between 2 00 PM and 3 00 PM then a calling party calling at 2 30 PM may be informed that the called party will become available at 3 00 PM.

An additional status may be that the phone has detected a noise or a noise exceeding a certain decibel level at any time or while its status was a predetermined status such as nobody home . Such an embodiment would be advantageous for monitoring a home while it is vacant. Detecting a noise could trigger e.g. a call to a predetermined number such as a work number and could also play back during that call the previous thirty seconds of sound recorded prior to the detected noise.

Another type of remote monitoring would be to permit information from the phone to be transmitted to another location. For example a log of calls made to the phone in the last four hours may be transmitted e.g. via fax email over the phone when a code is received e.g. via a work phone via email . Additionally after receiving such a log a party could indicate which calls he wanted to return e.g. upon arriving back home . In one embodiment such calls may be returned without dialing the order of returned calls could be established when indicating which calls to return and the calls made by merely picking up the phone

