---

title: Cyclopropylacetic acid derivatives and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel cyclopropylacetic acid derivatives, to processes for their preparation, to their use for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases and to their use for preparing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, in particular for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08168821&OS=08168821&RS=08168821
owner: Bayer Pharma Aktiengesellschaft
number: 08168821
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061009
---
This application is a National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 based on International Application No. PCT EP2006 009723 filed Oct. 9 2006 which claims priority to German Patent Application Numbers 102005050498.1 filed Oct. 21 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing applications and all documents cited therein and all documents cited or referenced therein and all documents cited or referenced herein including any U.S. or foreign patents or published patent applications International patent applications as well as any non patent literature references and any manufacturer s instructions are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to novel cyclopropylacetic acid derivatives to processes for their preparation to their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and to their use for preparing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases in particular for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the heme group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron center of the heme group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a heme dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the heme group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of heme free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO heme adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin IX to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the heme containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but heme dependent stimulator YC 1 described above M lsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the heme containing and the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a heme independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the heme containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leucotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

This object is achieved by the compounds described in the present invention. These compounds are distinguished structurally from the prior art compounds by a 1 4 diphenylbut 1 en 3 yl or 1 5 diphenylpent 1 en 3 yl core structure associated with a cyclopropylacetic acid side chain.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methyl morpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

 C C Alkyl and C C are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl 1 ethylpropyl n pentyl and n hexyl.

 C C Alkanediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkyl radical having 1 to 7 carbon atoms. A straight chain alkanediyl radical having 1 to 6 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methylene 1 2 ethylene ethane 1 1 diyl 1 3 propylene propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl 1 4 butylene butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl butane 2 3 diyl pentane 1 5 diyl pentane 2 4 diyl 3 methylpentane 2 4 diyl and hexane 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkenediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkenyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 double bonds. A straight chain alkenediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 double bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethene 1 1 diyl ethene 1 2 diyl propene 1 1 diyl propene 1 2 diyl propene 1 3 diyl but 1 ene 1 4 diyl but 1 ene 1 3 diyl but 2 ene 1 4 diyl buta 1 3 diene 1 4 diyl pent 2 ene 1 5 diyl hex 3 ene 1 6 diyl and hexa 2 4 diene 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkynediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkynyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 triple bonds. A straight chain alkynediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 triple bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethyne 1 2 diyl propyne 1 3 diyl but 1 yne 1 4 diyl but 1 yne 1 3 diyl but 2 yne 1 4 diyl pent 2 yne 1 5 diyl pent 2 yne 1 4 diyl and hex 3 yne 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkoxy and C C alkoxy are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy and n hexoxy.

 C C Alkoxycarbonyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms which is linked via a carbonyl group. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl n propoxycarbonyl isopropoxycarbonyl and tert butoxycarbonyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine or fluorine are preferred.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds according to the invention of the formula I characterized in that compounds of the formula II 

Inert solvents for process steps II III A IV A and II III B IV B are for example ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or mixtures of these solvents. Tetrahydrofuran mixed with hexane is preferably used.

Bases suitable for these process steps are the bases usual for a Wittig reaction. These include in particular strong bases such as n sec or tert butyllithium lithiumdiisopropylamide LDA or lithium sodium or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide. n Butyllithium is preferred.

The reactions II III A IV A and II III B IV B are generally carried out in a temperature range from 78 C. to 20 C. preferably at 20 C. to 10 C.

Inert solvents for the process step IV B V IV C are for example ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetonitrile dimethylformamide dimethyl sulfoxide N N dimethylpropylene urea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Acetonitrile is preferably used.

Bases suitable for this process step are in particular potassium carbonate sodium or potassium hydride lithiumdiisopropylamide or n butyllithium. Potassium carbonate is preferably used.

The reaction IV B V IV C is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 120 C. preferably at 50 C. to 100 C.

Hydrolysis of the ester and nitrile groups Tand Tin process steps IV A I and IV C I takes place by usual methods by treating the esters or nitrites in inert solvents with acids or bases and in the latter case converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. In the case of the tert butyl esters the ester cleavage preferably takes place with acids.

If the groups Tand Tare different the hydrolysis can where appropriate be carried out simultaneously in a one pot reaction or in two separate reaction steps.

Inert solvents suitable for these reactions are water or the organic solvents usual for an ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are preferably employed and in the case of nitrile hydrolysis preferably water or n propanol. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Sodium potassium or lithium hydroxide are particularly preferred.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters are preferred.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The nitrile hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out under atmospheric pressure in each case.

The aldehydes of the formula II can be prepared in analogy to processes disclosed in the literature for example by a sequential dialkylation of diallyl malonate with compounds of the formulae VI and VII 

The compounds of the formulae III A and III B can be obtained by processes usual in the literature by reaction of compounds of the formula X A or X B 

The compounds of the formula VI can be obtained analogously to processes known from the literature for example from cyclopropanone acetals via a Wittig reaction subsequent Michael addition hydroboration and halogenation see reaction scheme I below .

The compounds of the formulae V VII X A and X B are commercially available disclosed in the literature or can be prepared in analogy to processes disclosed in the literature concerning the preparation of the compounds according to the invention overall compare also the preparation processes described in EP 0 341 551 A1 WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 and WO 01 19778 .

Separation of the compounds according to the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds IV A IV B IV C or IX which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the process sequence described above. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by usual methods known to the skilled person chromatographic processes or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

Preparation of the compounds according to the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistoric and ischemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequelae of cerebral infarctions Apoplexia cerebri such as stroke cerebral ischemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin All antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic route or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilizates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilizates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colors e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro R P Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flowrate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 0.2 min 100 A 2.9 min 30 A 3.1 min 10 A 5.5 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 Series UV DAD column Phenomenex Gemini 3 30 mm 3.00 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm n.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

A suspension of 38.49 g 220.80 mmol of 1 ethoxycyclopropyl oxy trimethyl silane 100.0 g 287.04 mmol of ethyl triphenylphosphoranylidene acetate and 3.51 g 28.70 mmol of benzoic acid in 600 ml of toluene is stirred at a bath temperature of 90 C. for 18 hours. After cooling the mixture is poured onto 800 g of silica gel 60 and eluted successively with in each case 3 liters of petroleum ether 40 60 and dichloromethane. The dichloromethane eluate is after removal of the solvent distilled at 160 C. and 14 mbar in a kugelrohr. This gives 17.95 g 64 of theory of the title compound as a colorless liquid.

Under argon 0.55 g 5.53 mmol of copper I chloride and 0.59 g 13.82 mmol of lithium chloride are suspended in 150 ml of anhydrous THF. The reaction mixture is cooled to 78 C. 48.8 ml 82.95 mmol of vinylmagnesium chloride solution 1.7 M in THF are added and the mixture is stirred for 10 minutes. Over a period of 30 min a solution of 8.72 g 69.12 mmol of ethyl cyclopropylideneacetate Example 1A in 50 ml of anhydrous THF is then added dropwise. After the addition is ended the cooling bath is replaced by an ice acetone bath. After a further 15 min the reaction is terminated by dropwise addition of 100 ml of 1 N hydrochloric acid. The reaction mixture is saturated with sodium chloride and 100 ml of a saturated sodium chloride solution which contains 5 ml of a 25 strength aqueous ammonia solution are then added. The mixture is filtered through Celite. The filtrate is washed with ammoniacal sodium chloride solution until the aqueous phase remains colorless. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Removal of the solvent and kugelrohr distillation of the residue at 150 C. and 15 mbar gives 7.10 g 67 of theory of the title compound as a colorless liquid.

Under argon 30.86 ml 30.86 mmol of borane THF complex solution 1 M in THF are added dropwise at 0 C. to a solution of 14.00 g 90.79 mmol of ethyl 1 vinylcyclopropyl acetate Example 2A in 80 ml of anhydrous THF. After 30 min at 0 C. the mixture is stirred at room temperature for a further 30 min and 0.20 ml 5.00 mmol of methanol is then added. At 5 C. 5.61 ml 108.94 mmol of bromine and 26.98 g 150.0 mmol of sodium methoxide solution 30 strength in methanol are then successively added dropwise to the reaction mixture. After the mixture has reached room temperature 30 ml of saturated sodium bicarbonate solution are added. The reaction mixture is extracted three times with tert butyl methyl ether. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Removal of the solvent and kugelrohr distillation of the residue at 180 C. and 0.04 mbar gives 12.90 g 60 of theory of the title compound as a yellow oil which on storage in a fridge turns very dark over a period of a few hours.

Under argon and at 0 C. 4.44 g 111.0 mmol of sodium hydride 60 strength dispersion in mineral oil are added a little at a time to a solution of 27.28 g 148.09 mmol of diallyl malonate in 220 ml of anhydrous dioxane. The mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 30 min and a solution of 18.00 g 74.04 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate is then added at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then heated at 110 C. for 16 hours. After addition of 25 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution most of the dioxane is removed on a rotary evaporator. The residue is taken up in 200 ml of ethyl acetate and 100 ml of water. The aqueous phase is extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. After distillative removal of a large proportion of the excess diallyl malonate the crude product is pre purified on 100 g of silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 then cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . The desired product is then isolated by preparative HPLC. This gives 11.60 g 22 of theory of a colorless oil.

Under argon and at 0 C. 0.22 g 5.41 mmol of sodium hydride 60 strength dispersion in mineral oil is added a little at a time to a solution of 1.34 g 3.87 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxy carbonyl phenyl ethylmalonate in 10 ml of anhydrous DMF. The mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 30 min and a solution of 1.00 g 4.25 mmol of ethyl 1 2 bromoethyl cyclopropyl acetate in 5 ml of anhydrous DMF is then added dropwise at this temperature. The reaction mixture is then heated at 110 C. for 12 hours. After addition of 100 ml of water and 100 ml of ethyl acetate and phase separation the aqueous phase is extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is then washed five times with water and once with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 0.33 g 17 of theory of the title compound as a colorless oil.

At room temperature a solution of 0.6 ml 4.3 mmol of triethylamine and 0.12 ml 3.25 mmol of formic acid in 15 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 650 mg 1.3 mmol of diallyl 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl2 4 methoxycarbonyl phenyl ethylmalonate 24 mg 0.09 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 6 mg 0.026 mmol of palladium acetate in 15 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After complete conversion the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is removed. The aqueous phase is extracted three more times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 406 mg 83 of theory of a yellow oil.

At 10 C. 2.13 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 2.13 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 400 mg 1.06 mmol of 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 2 4 methoxy carbonyl phenyl ethylbutanoic acid in 10 ml of THF. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for another 2 hours. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the reaction mixture is extracted three times with 20 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are then dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is evaporated to dryness. This gives 330 mg 85 of theory of a colorless oil.

235.5 mg 1.09 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 330 mg 0.91 mmol of methyl 4 5 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 3 hydroxymethyl pentyl benzoate in 30 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours.

After complete conversion 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is carefully removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 192 mg 58 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 0.6 ml 1.5 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane is slowly added to a solution of 359 mg 0.799 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 5 ml of anhydrous THF and the mixture is stirred for 45 min. At this temperature 192 mg 0.53 mmol of methyl 4 5 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 3 formylpentylbenzoate are then added slowly and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added to the reaction solution which is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 178.5 mg 74 of theory of a colorless oil.

134.6 mg 0.59 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 163.8 mg 1.18 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 178 mg 0.395 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . This gives 130.6 mg 55 of theory of a solid.

At 0 C. 14.42 g 0.36 mol of sodium hydride are added a little at a time careful evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 56.7 g 0.3 mol of diallyl malonate in 375 ml of dioxane and 75 ml of THF. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. At 40 C. 111.88 g 0.6 mol of methyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 375 ml of dioxane are then slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is subsequently stirred at 110 C. bath temperature overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Here it has to be made sure that the pH is 

Under argon and at 0 C. 1.67 g 41.62 mmol of sodium hydride 60 strength dispersion in mineral oil are added a little at a time to a solution of 10.87 g 32.70 mmol of diallyl 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl malonate in 60 ml of anhhdrous DMF. The mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 30 min and a solution of 6.99 g 29.73 mmol of ethyl 1 2 bromoethyl cyclopropyl acetate in 60 ml of anhydrous DMF is then added dropwise at this temperature. The reaction mixture is subsequently heated at 100 C. for 8 hours. After addition of 600 ml of water and 200 ml of ethyl acetate and phase separation the aqueous phase is extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is then washed five times with water and once with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The crude product is initially purified by flash chromatography 400 g of silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 and then by preparative HPLC. This gives 4.87 g 28 of theory of the title compound in the form of a colorless oil.

At room temperature a solution of 4.33 ml 31.06 mmol of triethylamine and 0.89 ml 23.53 mmol of formic acid in 20 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 4.58 g 9.41 mmol of diallyl 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 methoxycarbonyl benzyl malonate 173 mg 0.66 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 42 mg 0.19 mmol of palladium acetate in 60 ml dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After complete conversion the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three more times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 2.68 g 73 of theory 95 purity of a colorless solid.

At 10 C. 12.31 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 12.31 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 2.23 g 6.15 mmol of 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 4 methoxy carbonyl benzyl butanoic acid in 50 ml of THF. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for another 2 hours and then at room temperature for 1 hour. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the reaction mixture is extracted three times with in each case 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are then dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . This gives 1680 mg 78 of theory of a colorless oil.

1247 mg 5.79 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 1680 mg 4.82 mmol of methyl 4 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 hydroxymethyl butyl benzoate in 100 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After complete conversion 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is carefully removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 1270 mg 76 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 4.11 ml 10.26 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are added slowly to a solution of 2.471 g 5.5 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 25 ml of anhydrous THF and the mixture is stirred for 45 min. At this temperature 1.27 g 3.67 mmol of methyl 4 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 formylbutylbenzoate are then metered in slowly and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for two hours. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the reaction solution is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . This gives 757 mg 47 of theory of a yellowish oil.

312.2 mg 1.37 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 253.3 mg 1.83 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 400 mg 0.92 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . This gives 289 mg 54 of theory of a solid.

At 0 C. 50 g 0.304 mmol of 5 phenylpentan 1 ol are added to a solution of 416.7 ml 1.83 mol of 48 strength hydrobromic acid and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction solution is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After complete conversion the mixture is cooled to room temperature and 200 ml of ethyl acetate are added. After extraction the organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . This gives 59.4 g 0.26 mol 86 of theory of a colorless liquid.

273 mg 1.2 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene and 222 mg 1.6 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 350 mg 0.8 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . This gives 275 mg 58 of theory of a solid.

At 0 C. 6.29 g 0.16 mol of sodium hydride careful evolution of hydrogen are added a little at a time to a solution of 48.24 g 0.26 mol of diallyl malonate in 100 ml of dioxane and 40 ml of THF. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. At 40 C. 29.69 g 0.13 mol of tert butyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 100 ml of dioxane and 40 ml of THF are slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is then stirred at a bath temperature of 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature 40 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and 100 ml of water are added carefully to the reaction mixture. The mixture is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on 2 kg of silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gives 30.4 g 81 mmol 62 of theory of a colorless solid.

A solution of 19.85 g 43.4 mmol purity 81.85 of diallyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl benzyl malonate 13.94 g 47.7 mmol purity 80.5 of ethyl 1 2 bromoethyl cyclopropyl acetate and 28.56 g 87 mmol of cesium carbonate in 310 ml of acetonitrile is stirred under reflux for 24 hours. The reaction mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography 3000 g of silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gives 8 g 35 of theory of the title compound in the form of a colorless oil.

At room temperature a solution of 7.42 ml 53.56 mmol of triethylamine and 1.53 ml 40 mmol of formic acid in 25 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 8.58 g 16.2 mmol of diallyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl benzyl 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethylmalonate 298 mg 1.14 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 73 mg 0.33 mmol of palladium acetate in 75 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After complete conversion the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid pH 4 5 and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three more times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 700 g mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 1 1 . This gives 4.9 g 74.6 of theory of a colorless solid.

At 10 C. 25.71 ml 25.71 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 5199 mg 12.85 mmol of 2 4 tert butoxycarbonyl benzyl 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxo ethyl cyclopropyl butanoic acid in 100 ml of THF. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for another two hours and then at room temperature for another hour. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the reaction mixture is extracted three times with in each case 50 ml of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are then dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is removed to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . This gives 3412 mg 68 of theory of a colorless oil.

846 mg 3.93 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC are added to a solution of 1278 mg 3.27 mmol of tert butyl 4 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 hydroxymethyl butylbenzoate in 60 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After complete conversion 5 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is carefully removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 3 1 . This gives 1080 mg 85 of theory of a colorless oil.

At 0 C. 3.11 ml 7.78 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are added slowly to a solution of 1.874 g 4.2 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 25 ml of anhydrous THF and the mixture is stirred for 45 minutes. At this temperature 1.080 g 2.78 mmol of tert butyl 4 4 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl 2 formylbutylbenzoate are metered in slowly and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for four hours. After complete conversion saturated ammonium chloride solution is added and the reaction solution is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is evaporated to dryness. The crude product obtained is purified by preparative HPLC. This gives 162 mg 8 of theory of a colorless oil.

118 mg 0.46 mmol of 4 trifluoromethoxybenzyl bromide and 98 mg 0.71 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate are added to a solution of 170 mg 0.36 mmol of tert butyl 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 3 ml of dry acetonitrile and the mixture is heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The crude product obtained is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . This gives 155 mg 67 of theory of a colorless oil.

1.5 ml of a 4 N solution of HCl gas in dioxane are added to a solution of 154 mg 0.24 mmol of tert butyl 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethoxy benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The mixture is concentrated and the residue is partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. This gives 140 mg 0.23 mmol 99 of theory of the title compound.

140 mg 0.23 mmol of the racemic 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethoxy benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid obtained in this manner are separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. What is obtained are in each case enantomerically pure 51 mg and 71 mg respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 28A and 29A .

Column Daicel Chiralcel OJ H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m mobile phase ethanol with 1 of water and 0.2 of glacial acetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 40 C.

0.69 ml 0.69 mmol of a 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution is added to a solution of 138 mg 0.23 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 3 ml of dioxane and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the dioxane is removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid. The product precipitates and is filtered off washed with water and dried. This gives 100.4 mg 78 of theory of a white solid.

Using preparative HPLC on a chiral phase 100 mg 0.18 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 2 1 carboxymethyl cyclopropyl ethylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoic acid obtained in this manner are separated further. What is obtained are in each case enantiomerically pure 6 mg and 20 mg respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 2 and 3 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane with 1 of water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 50 50 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 29 C.

23 mg 0.98 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 285 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 8 ml of THF and 8 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the THF is removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid. The product precipitates out and is filtered off washed with water and dried. The crude product obtained in this manner is purified further by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 100 1 50 1 40 1 . This gives 179 mg 67 of theory of a colorless solid.

Using preparative HPLC on a chiral phase 179 mg 0.33 mmol of the racemic 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 1 carboxymethyl cyclopropyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid obtained in this manner are separated further. What is obtained are in each case enantiomerically pure 69 mg and 79 mg respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 5 and 6 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol with 1 of water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 78 22 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

1.39 ml 1.39 mmol of a 1 M aqueous sodium hydroxide solution are added to a solution of 270 mg 0.46 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of THF and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the THF is removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid. The product precipitates out and is filtered off washed with water and dried. This gives 228 mg 91 of theory of a slightly yellow solid.

Using preparative HPLC on a chiral phase 228 mg 0.42 mmol of the racemic 4 3E 2 2 1 carboxymethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid obtained in this manner are separated further. What is obtained are in each case enantiomerically pure 77 mg and 79 mg respectively of the two E isomers as colorless solids see Examples 8 and 9 .

Column KBD 6328 chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl L iso leucinepentylamide 430 mm 40 mm mobile phase ethyl acetate flow rate 80 ml min UV detection 270 nm temperature 24 C.

4 mg 0.17 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 50 mg 0.08 mmol of 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethoxy benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid enantiomer 1 in 2 ml of THF and 1 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the THF is removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid. The product precipitates out and is filtered off washed with water and dried. This gives 38 mg 79 of theory of a slightly white solid.

5.6 mg 0.24 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of 70 mg 0.12 mmol of 4 3E 2 2 1 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl cyclopropyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethoxy benzyl oxy phenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid enantiomer 2 in 1 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water and the mixture is stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the THF is removed under reduced pressure and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid. The product precipitates out and is filtered off washed with water and dried. This gives 30 mg 45 of theory of a slightly white solid.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 9 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 9 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of the infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of S ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

