---

title: Context-aware migration of communication session
abstract: Techniques and systems are disclosed for context-aware migration of a communication network session. For example, a system for migrating a communication session established between a first entity and a second entity in accordance with an application module includes the following elements. A context monitor module supports the application module and is operative to obtain context information associated with at least one of the first entity and the second entity. A migration server module supports the application module and is operative to effectuate a transfer of the communication session from one communication device associated with the first entity to another communication device associated with the first entity. The context monitor module and the migration server module operate in cooperation with the application module to transfer the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166176&OS=08166176&RS=08166176
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08166176
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20060531
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of data communication networks and more particularly to techniques for context aware migration of a communication session such as an Internet Protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS session.

Internet Protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS is a next generation communication network for carriers from the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP that uses the IP protocol as its foundation. As is known 3GPP is a cooperation of international standards bodies for the promotion of cellular systems that support high speed data known as 3rd Generation 3G systems. The IMS supports data video Session Initiation Protocol SIP based voice over IP VoIP and non SIP packetized voice such as the International Telecommunications Union ITU H.323 standard and the Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP . IMS was also designed to integrate with the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and provide traditional telephony services.

The IMS was conceived to offer support for a wide variety of types of communication sessions whether over wireless or wireline including instant messaging IM push to talk videoconferencing and video on demand VOD . The IMS thus blends services for converged wireline and wireless networks. The IMS architecture separates the service layer from the session and access layers. The defining of clear application programming interfaces APIs between the different layers makes service creation easier for third parties and easily deployable by service providers.

Due at least to the fact that an IMS session is capable of supporting a wide variety of communication protocols and platforms a need exists for providing flexibility to users in terms of migration between communication devices employed during an IMS session.

Principles of the invention provide techniques and systems for context aware migration of a communication network session.

For example in one aspect of the invention apparatus for migrating a communication session established between a first entity and a second entity in accordance with an application module includes the following elements. A context monitor module supports the application module and is operative to obtain context information associated with at least one of the first entity and the second entity. A migration server module supports the application module and is operative to effectuate a transfer of the communication session from one communication device associated with the first entity to another communication device associated with the first entity. The context monitor module and the migration server module operate in cooperation with the application module to transfer the communication session.

The application module may receive at least a portion of the context information obtained by the context monitor module. The application module may determine whether or not to transfer the communication session from the one communication device of the first entity to the other communication device of the first entity based at least in part on the received context information. The application module may cause the migration server module to effectuate the transfer when a transfer determination is made such that the communication session continues between the first entity and the second entity after the transfer.

The apparatus may further include a session monitor module supporting the application module and operative to obtain information associated with the communication session wherein the application module receives at least a portion of the session information for use in making the transfer determination.

Further the apparatus may include one or more support modules supporting at least one of the context monitor module and the application module and operative to provide information thereto. The one or more support modules may include one or more of a module for storing information pertaining to at least one of a profile and a preference of the first entity a module for storing information pertaining to a schedule associated with the first entity a module for storing information pertaining to a policy associated with the first entity a module for storing information pertaining to a location of one or more communication devices associated with the first entity a module for storing information pertaining to a status of one or more communication devices associated with the first entity and a module for transcoding media to be presented on the other communication device when the session is transferred from the one communication device to the other communication device.

Still further the apparatus may include a client module resident on the one communication device associated with the first entity and operative to facilitate a transfer of the communication session from the one communication device to the other communication device.

Context information may include one or more of geographic location information associated with at least the first entity information pertaining to a proximity of at least the first entity to other communication devices at which at least the first entity can communicate information pertaining to a quality associated with a communication network in which the communication session is established information pertaining to the communication session information pertaining to an activity of at least the first entity and information pertaining to one or more ambient conditions. It is to be understood that context information may include other types of information.

In one embodiment the communication session is an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS session.

Advantageously in accordance with the above described apparatus the application module need not be burdened with gathering context information since the separate context monitor module will independently perform this task. Further the application module need not be burdened with effectuating the actual migration since the separate migration server module will independently perform this task. Thus programming of the application is simplified and application processing is more efficient.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

It is to be appreciated that while the present invention will be described below in the context of an IMS based communication network the invention is not so limited. That is the present invention is more generally applicable to any data communication network in which it would be desirable to provide migration capability with regard to a network communication session.

As used herein a session generally refers to a communication connection between two or more entities that persists for some time period during which data may be exchanged therebetween. A session is typically implemented and managed by a session layer in the corresponding network protocol. The overall session may include a network session which is the part of the overall session associated with the devices used to communicate as well as a logical session which is the part of the overall session that is associated with the communicating parties users that persists regardless of the communication devices that the parties are using to communicate as will be further explained below.

Further the term network as used herein generally refers to the IMS based communication network which is the combined communication network formed by the wireline networks and wireless networks that the IMS supports.

As will be illustratively described below principles of the invention provide context aware techniques for migrating or transferring a network session from one communication device to another communication device such that the session is able to persist.

Thus illustrative principles of the invention introduce the concept of an extended context of a user in a communication network such as an IMS based communication network. Context as will be more fully defined below is not just the location and availability of a user but also the proximity of the user to different devices ambient sensory information and calendar schedule. This context can be used to support a variety of context aware applications as well as migration of sessions in an enhanced manner.

Thus with the proliferation of different user devices e.g. cell phones personal digital assistants laptops etc. with different capabilities for communications over different networks e.g. 3G Wi Fi 802.11 standard wireline broadband etc. and with different applications e.g. email instant messaging voice phone video phone etc. in the market coupled with the mobility of the user it can be very difficult to determine the best way to reach the user. It necessitates the need to know the context of the user and how best to reach him her so that no communication is lost. Broadly speaking the context of the user is composed of multiple parts such as 

 ii proximity to other devices that the user can be reached at this is both the personal devices he is carrying as well as other universal devices such as a common television TV computer telephone etc. in the readily accessible proximity of the user 

 iv current session or none the user is involved in and characteristics of the session such as type encoding state of the session e.g. started on hold etc. 

 v current activity of the user e.g. in a board meeting at lunch etc. to determine availability and presence of the user this presence of the user can either be explicit or implicit as obtained from calendar information and or

 vi other ambient conditions such as heat humidity etc. via multiple sensory detectors on the device or elsewhere and communicated to the network this ambient condition information can also be used for home land security type applications such as enabling effective evacuations targeting involved population for dissemination of threat and security information etc. .

When a user is involved in a communication session such as a voice video call conference session or watching television e.g. IP TV on his personal device there may arise a need to migrate the user to a different network or different part of the network and or device. There are number of reasons that give rise to the need to migrate a user during a session such as 

 i the signal strength of the network degrades to a level where it is not sufficient to support the bandwidth required by the current session 

 iii the user wishes to move to a different device because of the availability of a better quality device and or

 iv social and other reasons such as moving a phone call from a personal cell phone to a speaker phone at home or work etc.

In order to be able to migrate a call for the above reasons in an easy and seamless manner it is necessary to know the context of the user to enable an enhanced context aware migration. An enhanced context aware migration involves knowing the current context of the user and or session and thus the proximity of the user to appropriate devices to which the user can be migrated. Some of these characteristics can best be known only by the network while others are best known by the user. For example the signal strength of a wireless network and congestion on a wireline network are best determined by the network elements themselves. However the choice of the device where the user wishes to migrate is perhaps best under the control of the user with the network only providing assistance in helping determine whether the new device will indeed support the current session in a better or worse manner.

Accordingly illustrative principles of the invention provide a migration system that captures the enhanced context of a user e.g. location session availability proximity to devices presence etc. and enables mobility of a current session from device to device spanning wireless or wireline networks. The migration system operates at the service layer and once the appropriate device to which migration needs to happen is determined leaves it to the underlying session and access layers to actually perform the migration.

The ability to migrate an ongoing session enables a wide variety of follow me type services such as Follow me Phone Follow me Chat Follow me Video and Follow me TV etc. For illustrative purposes below we define a scenario and the associated Follow Me application and how the context aware migration system plays a part in those applications.

Consider the scenario where someone has an important conference meeting to attend early in the morning. So while driving to work the person dials into the conference bridge and gets logged on to the meeting. However the voice quality on the phone is not the best possible and the person wants to switch to another device as he she enters the office. As the person nears the parking lot or enters the office the migration system detects that his her location is now closer to a better desktop speaker phone e.g. based on a location server and the person s device profile. The migration system alerts the person with the choices of devices e.g. the desktop phone a soft phone on his her computer etc. that he she would want to possibly migrate to. If the conference call has an added component of a video then possibly the best device available to migrate to and thus upgrade the current session is a soft phone.

Upon selecting the appropriate device the network automatically routes migrates the person s call to the correct device seamlessly. Once the session is picked up from the new device the original device session is terminated thereby avoiding any interruptions and the need to redial into the conference. A better session is continued on the new phone. It is to be understood that the part of the session that is maintained is the logical session between the initial parties of original session. It is the network session between the original devices that is terminated.

Note that migration system is involved in both the selection of devices based on location and context of the session and also triggering a migration call to the lower session layer to move the session to a better device.

Given the above general description of the context aware migration principles of the invention an illustrative IMS based system architecture and a call flow example are now described.

As shown migration system is a multi tiered distributed client server architecture. On the server side migration system includes application specific modules core modules and support modules . By way of example modules are operatively coupled to other modules as shown in this figure as well as shown in the subsequent figures. The application specific modules include a variety of follow me applications e.g. Follow me phone as described above and Follow me TV to name a few. The core modules include context monitor session monitor and migration server . The support modules include home subscriber server HSS calendar server policy server location server media server and presence server . On the client side client module is used in certain applications to enable some of the migration functionality.

One advantage of such architecture is that it opens up a wide variety of applications each of which can define their own policies and rules for migration. The applications make use of the core and support modules to implement the intended behavior.

In general core modules provide the functionality of monitoring the session the context and also handling the migration of the session. Application specific modules perform application layer logic based on the policies specified by the application and use the core modules to make decisions of when and how the migration should take place. Support modules provide the core support functionality such as location determination policy profile server a calendar server that is integrated with the calendar of the individual and a media server. Some applications may need a client to enable the migration of sessions.

Context monitor is responsible for keeping track of the context of the user. As defined above context is information including all any of geographic location proximity location current time presence of the user s devices. To do so the context monitor communicates with HSS location server presence server and other context specific servers such as calendar server and media server . The system may include other support modules not shown .

Context monitor assimilates the information and provides an interface to the application e.g. Follow me Phone application to determine the context of the user. That is the context monitor makes use of the information that is gathered from the support modules to present a coherent context picture to the application module. Advantageously the application module need not be burdened with gathering context information since the separate context monitor performs this task. Thus programming of the application is simplified and application processing is more efficient.

Session monitor keeps track of the session characteristics. Session characteristics may for example include the state of the session the type of the session the users involved any transcoders involved i.e. for devices that support different encoding schemes both for voice and video a transcoder device may be employed between the devices and the source of the session in case of streamed video broadcasts.

Migration server handles the migration of a session. Upon receiving a cue from the application module the migration server handles all the appropriate calls that need to be made to the underlying session layer to perform the actual migration of the session to the targeted device. That is the migration server receives instruction from the application module which makes a migration decision based on the predetermined policy to effectuate the migration of the session. Advantageously the application module need not be burdened with effectuating the actual migration since the separate migration server performs this task. Thus again programming of the application is simplified and application processing is more efficient.

Application modules may be implemented as one or more servers which implement the application specific logic for follow me like applications. Each application modules uses the core and support modules to support in the decision making of the application logic.

Various support modules are used in the migration system architecture. These modules provide specific functionality to enable migration capabilities.

HSS stores the user profiles and preferences. These profiles and preferences can be set up by each user of the IMS based network in which the context aware migration system is implemented.

Calendar server provides the calendar information of the users. The calendar information includes such information as meeting times and locations busy times and free times.

Policy server stores the policies for the users. A policy engine is necessary to mitigate policies between the users and the application. A policy is a rule that dictates whether a certain action should or must take place. For example a call migration application may want to migrate a session to the nearest available phone with speaker abilities. However the policy is set to always prompt the user when such a migration is to occur and the user may have an over riding decision option with regard to whether the migration should take place.

Location server provides the location of devices. For cell based networks a Mobile Positioning Center MPC or a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC may serve this role. However for other types of devices and networks such as Wi Fi or blue tooth special location servers are employed.

Media server handles the transcoding of media between disparate devices e.g. if a video session is to be transferred from a device supporting a higher bit rate to a device supporting a lower bit rate or a different encoding scheme.

Presence server determines the presence information of the devices e.g. whether a device is on off or whether the device is currently involved in a call session .

Client module assists with migration in certain applications. For some applications a client module may need to reside on the user s device itself that can help with the migration location determination and proximity monitoring. For example the client module may perform global positioning system GPS functions Bluetooth support or radio frequency RF monitoring functions.

Given a description of the modules of the context aware migration system a call flow example will now illustrate migration principles of the invention.

In the example of certain components of the migration system of are shown with the same reference numerals . In addition some IMS based network components are shown e.g. service broker with serving call session control function S CSCF interrogating CSCFs I CSCFs A and B and proxy CSCFs P CSCFs A and B. A P CSCF is a communication device s point of contact in the network after registration. An I CSCF is responsible for finding the S CSCF at registration. An S CSCF is responsible for identifying the user s service privileges and for selecting access to an application server and for providing access to that server. It is to be understood that the overall network may include more or less components and that the components in are shown in order to describe the call migration example. The service broker and CSCFs perform there typical functions and are thereby used by the user devices and migration system to communicate.

Example devices shown in include cell phone personal computer video phone and standard telephone . It is to be understood that the type and quantity of user devices and networks shown in are for illustrative purposes only and that principles of the invention are not limited to any particular type or quantity of user devices or networks.

In this example it is assumed that a user of device A is communicating with a user of device B. Then it becomes necessary or desired that the user of device A migrate to device C so that the call can continue with the user of device B.

Initially step the system monitors the call setup for migration. This is done by session monitor maintaining characteristics of the current session between device A and device B. It is assumed a situation has occurred that necessitates migration of the user and thus the session from device A to device C. Step shows location server updating HSS with the current location of user devices. In step context monitor obtains updated user and device locations from HSS . From this information in step the migration system determines the appropriate device to which the call should be migrated assumed to be device C . In step the user is alerted on device A of the pending migration to device C. In step the migration system refers identifies device C to device B. In step device B accepts device C. In step the migration system invites device C to participate in the call session. In step device A is terminated from the call session. Then the user previously of device A continues his call with the user of device B on device C.

Accordingly as shown device A initiates a call to device B via service broker which is setup in a typical fashion. Service broker notifies application module of the request . Application module notifies session monitor of the call request . Application module sends a request to context monitor to monitor the context of the user of device A . Context monitor requests profile preference information about the user s devices from HSS and in response the HSS provides the requested information to the context monitor . The context monitor also polls location server for location information for the user s devices . Alternatively as shown in the location server can provide the location information to the HSS which then sends the location information to the context monitor upon request.

As further shown context monitor notifies application module when a context change occurs . The application module then applies a predetermined policy to determine if migration needs to occur. Assuming migration needs to occur based on the application logic applied the application module requests migration of the call to device C . Migration server requests and receives session information from session monitor . The migration server refers new device C to device B . Device B accepts the request from the migration server . The migration server invites device C on behalf of device B . Device C contacts device B . The migration server sends a call leg termination request to device A . Call migration is then completed .

In this illustrative implementation a processor for implementing at least a portion of the methodologies of the invention is operatively coupled to a memory input output I O device s and a network interface via a bus or an alternative connection arrangement.

It is to be appreciated that the term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a central processing unit CPU and or other processing circuitry e.g. digital signal processor DSP microprocessor etc. . Additionally it is to be understood that the term processor may refer to more than one processing device and that various elements associated with a processing device may be shared by other processing devices.

The term memory as used herein is intended to include memory and other computer readable media associated with a processor or CPU such as for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM fixed storage media e.g. hard drive removable storage media e.g. diskette flash memory etc.

In addition the phrase I O devices as used herein is intended to include one or more input devices e.g. keyboard mouse etc. for inputting data to the processing unit as well as one or more output devices e.g. CRT display etc. for providing results associated with the processing unit. It is to be appreciated that such input devices may be one mechanism to provide inputs used by a system of the invention. Alternatively the inputs could be read into the system from a diskette or from some other source e.g. another computer system connected to the computer bus . Also inputs to the methodologies may be obtained in accordance with the one or more input devices. The output devices may be one mechanism for a user or other computer system to be presented with results of the methodologies of the invention.

Still further the phrase network interface as used herein is intended to include for example one or more devices capable of allowing the computing system to communicate with other computing systems. Thus the network interface may comprise a transceiver configured to communicate with a transceiver of another computer system via a suitable communications protocol. It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to any particular communications protocol.

It is to be appreciated that while the present invention has been described herein in the context of networks the methodologies of the present invention may be capable of being distributed in the form of computer readable media and that the present invention may be implemented and its advantages realized regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used for distribution. The term computer readable media as used herein is intended to include recordable type media such as for example a floppy disk a hard disk drive RAM compact disk CD ROM etc. and transmission type media such as digital or analog communication links wired or wireless communication links using transmission forms such as for example radio frequency and optical transmissions etc. The computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for use in a particular data processing system.

Accordingly one or more computer programs or software components thereof including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in one or more of the associated storage media e.g. ROM fixed or removable storage and when ready to be utilized loaded in whole or in part e.g. into RAM and executed by the processor .

In any case it is to be appreciated that the techniques of the invention described herein and shown in the appended figures may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof e.g. one or more operatively programmed general purpose digital computers with associated memory implementation specific integrated circuit s functional circuitry etc. Given the techniques of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the techniques of the invention.

Although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

