---

title: Automated management of brand rules for providing content
abstract: Automated assistance is provided for managing rules and/or guidelines regarding the usage of branded content for a project, e.g., an advertising campaign, event, signage, decoration, and the like. One or more queries regarding the project are presented to the user. Based on the user's responses to the queries, branded content that is approved for the project's intended use(s) is automatically identified and made available to the user. The determination of which digitized content (media objects) to provide to the user is based at least in part on brand rules and/or guidelines that can be relatively static or dynamically updated by the current user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949625&OS=07949625&RS=07949625
owner: Corbis Corporation
number: 07949625
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061006
---
The invention is directed to the management of content for a project and more particularly automating the management of rules governing which media objects are to be provided for use with a particular project.

A content management system such as a Digital Asset Management system DAM is often employed to enable multiple users to store search and access content that is owned or licensed by an organization. This content is generally provided as one or more media objects in a digital format such as pictures text videos graphics illustrations images audio files fonts colors and the like. Also some of the content may be designated for use with a brand for a particular type of product and or service. Additionally the usage of the brand related content is typically determined by one or more rules and or guidelines that are provided by the organization. In the past these rules were mostly manually enforced to control the usage of brand content managed by a DAM system.

The invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the invention may be implemented in different embodiments as methods processes processor readable mediums systems business methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

The invention is generally directed to providing automated assistance in managing rules and or guidelines regarding the usage of branded content for a project e.g. an advertising campaign event signage decoration presentation and the like. Initially one or more queries regarding the project are presented to the user. Based on the user s responses to the queries other queries may be presented until branded content that is approved for the project s intended use s is automatically identified and made available to the user. The determination of which content to provide to a user is based at least in part on rules and or guidelines regarding a brand that can be relatively static or dynamically updated.

Generally as used in this application a brand is a representation of a level of quality value and or association with a specific known source of goods services e.g. an organization individual line of products services. The brand can be embodied in different forms of electronic content which can include media objects that can be communicated electronically over a network and or included in a processor readable media. Also a brand s value is typically reflected in how the product service and or organization individual is perceived by their target audience or the marketplace generally. Different meanings and therefore different values can be associated with different audiences. Furthermore the meaning and the value of the brand for each audience is typically employed to develop rules and guidelines for marketing products and or services to each target audience. Additionally the value of a brand for a web based company may have a heightened importance due at least in part to the somewhat intangible nature of providing goods and or services over a network vis vis a brick and mortar facility.

Rules and or guidelines for a brand are employed to evaluate the uses for a media object. These rules and or guidelines can be employed to generate a logical decision tree of queries which are displayed to the user. Based on the user s response to these queries a media object can be subsequently provided to the user for use in a particular project. In yet at least another embodiment a template of exemplary rules and guidelines can be provided for a new user that has not provided any. Based in part on a user s responses to a template of general queries at least basic usage rules and guidelines for media objects can be generated for the new user.

In still another embodiment the rules guidelines can employ the format type of a file and or an application provided for a user s project to identify one or more media objects for a particular use. For example if a user indicated a particular presentation file format for a project those media objects suitable for use display with the corresponding presentation application would be provided for consideration by the user. Further other media objects unsuitable for use with the provided presentation file format wouldn t be provided but might be presented as available for use if a different type of presentation application could be employed for that particular project.

Additionally in at least one embodiment if a brand rule and or guideline regarding the use of a media object changes the availability of that object for intended and or actual use can be dynamically updated. For example the availability of a media object for use in a presentation application can be dynamically updated based on a new change to a rule guideline regarding its usage with a presentation. Also each change to a rule and or guideline for use with a brand can be dynamically updated in a database that is linked to an index of the media objects.

In at least one other embodiment different types of rules and or guidelines may be provided that can consider one or more factors of a user s project including but not limited to geographic location venue target audience price duration season event holiday special occasion type of media object requested type of project and the like. In one embodiment these factors are provided by the user in response to one or more queries and in other embodiments these factors can be stored in a profile associated with or selected by the user.

A media object is an electronic form of content whose use with a brand can be controlled by rules and or guidelines. Media objects can include but are not limited to alpha numeric text symbols images pictures illustrations graphics fonts characters cartoons video color service marks trademarks trade dress audio recordings drawings presentations advertisements and the like. Additionally a media object includes a unique identifier. In at least one embodiment the unique identifier can be configured as metadata that can be arranged in one or more configurations including but not limited to XMP EXIF and IPTC. This metadata can include time and date information geographic limitations type s of approved uses such as an advertising campaign and the like. Moreover the unique identifier and or the metadata can be employed to automatically map a media object to brand usage rules and or guidelines.

Also in at least one embodiment the unique identifier for a media object can be configured as an object such as a smart object digital object identifier DOI and or a handle. This unique identifier may be included in a header of a file and or injected into the actual data that characterizes the media object. One or more methods may be employed to inject a unique identifier into content contained in a media object s file including but not limited to steganography watermarking and hard coding.

In one embodiment a Handle System is employed to handle the unique identifiers for media objects. The Handle System provides a resolution service for media objects over a network such as the Internet. The arrangement of the Handle System is somewhat similar to a Domain Name System DNS except that it is tailored for resolving unique identifiers of media objects instead of uniform resource locators URLs for websites. There are several Requests For Comment RFCs that explain the specific details of the Handle System including RFC3650 3651 and 3652. Additionally the Handle System can be used to locate repositories that contain media objects given their unique handles. Other features of the Handle System include 1 open relatively well defined protocol and data model 2 infrastructure for application domains e.g. images music digital libraries 3 interoperability between many different information systems and 4 a DNS can operate on the Handle System.

Additionally if a unique identifier is configured with a media object as a DOI handle and or smart object it can provide at least some functionality e.g. 1 addressing and resolvability over a network via a resolution system 2 include a payload that conforms to a metadata description 3 address that can be specified by a particular syntax 4 invoke a method and or 5 universal operability.

In one or more embodiments the invention can be implemented as an application or applet which is separate from and or a plug in for another application such as an editor word processor DAM presentation application spreadsheet application and the like. The invention can be arranged in different environments including but not limited to host peer to peer client server and the like. One or more of these environments could also include a web server that provides access to information and media objects over a network by at least a browser application. In at least one embodiment the rules guidelines can be expressed in a database where newly received and previously received media objects can be indexed. Additionally in at least one embodiment the rules and or guidelines for a brand can be managed in a virtual style book that controls at least some of the usage of media objects with the brand.

One embodiment of mobile devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Generally however mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network wireless network or the like. Mobile devices may also be described generally as client devices that are configured to be portable. Thus mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of connecting to another computing device and receiving information. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers media players video game consoles multi media computing platforms integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. As such mobile devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a mobile telephone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled mobile device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

A web enabled mobile device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages and the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol WAP message and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message.

Mobile devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content graphical content audio content and the like. This client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name and the like. In one embodiment mobile devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN or other mobile device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the mobile device is enabled to process. Such information may be provided in a message or the like sent to server network device or other computing devices.

Mobile devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber and the like between another computing device such as Network Device client device or the like. However the present invention is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Mobile devices and client network device may further be configured to include a client application that enables a user to log into a customer account that may be managed by another computing device such as server network device . Such customer account for example may be configured to enable the user to search for content browse web pages select content for purchase and select uses for the selected content or the like. However participation in these activities may also be performed without logging into a customer account.

Client network device may include virtually any computing device capable of communicating over a network to send and receive information including social networking information or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired or wireless communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs network appliances or the like.

Wireless network is configured in part to couple mobile devices and its components with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for mobile devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks Wifi networks Wimax networks cellular telephone networks and the like. Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as mobile devices with various degrees of mobility. For example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between mobile devices and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple server network device and its components with other computing devices including client network device and through wireless network to mobile devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of processor readable media for communicating information from one networked electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T T T and T Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between server network device client device and other computing devices.

One embodiment of server network Device is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however server network device may include any computing device capable of connecting to network . Further server network device enables one or more server applications to communicate with clients and or other server applications operating on other computing devices. The server applications can include but are not limited to one or more of content server web server brand content server and or Digital Asset Management server . Further server network device can be arranged to include client applications such as browser media object program and the like.

Furthermore although illustrates server network device as a single computing device the invention is not so limited. For example one or more functions or applications of server network device may be distributed across one or more other network devices without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

As shown in the figure mobile device includes a processing unit CPU in communication with a mass memory via a bus . Mobile device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display a keypad an illuminator an input output interface a haptic interface an optional global positioning systems GPS receiver and processor readable media . Media may include but is not limited to hard discs floppy disks memory cards optical discs and the like. Power supply provides power to mobile device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Mobile device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling mobile device to one or more networks and is arranged for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions.

Mobile device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth or the like. Haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate mobile device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

Optional GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of mobile device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of mobile device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location within millimeters for mobile device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances.

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates another example of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of mobile device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of mobile device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by mobile device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of mobile device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Moreover data storage may also be employed to store social networking information including vitality information or the like. At least a portion of the social networking information may also be stored on a disk drive or other storage medium not shown within mobile device .

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by mobile device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS MMS IM email and or other messages audio video and enable telecommunication with another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include calendars browsers email clients IM applications SMS applications VOIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth. Applications may further include browser and brand content program .

Brand content program may be configured either individually or in combination with browser to enable searching and displaying of pages of content that is available for a project based on at least one response to at least one query. Program can also enable a customer to download selected content for the project. In one embodiment brand content program enables a user to provide responses to queries regarding intended usage of content for a project where approved uses are based on at least one previously provided rule and or guideline. Various embodiments of the processes for brand content program are described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices with processor readable media such as hard disc drive tape drive optical drive memory card and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . It is envisioned that any general purpose or mobile operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of processor readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable processor readable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as processor readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage memory cards magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications can be loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs that may be included are transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs VPN programs SMS message servers IM message servers email servers account management and the like.

If network device is arranged as a client device the client applications may include browser and or media object program . However if network device is arranged to operate as a server other serving applications may also be included such as DAM Web server Brand Content server Content server and the like. Furthermore one or more of these serving applications may be arranged on one or more network devices dedicated to providing computing resources.

Brand Content server may be arranged to receive and process rules and guidelines for the use of content as a brand. Brand Content server can preprocess information data process information data in real time or some combination of both to determine a price for a customer of selected content for one or more predetermined categories of use for the selected content.

Also Brand Content server can provide a user with automated assistance in managing brand rules and or guidelines regarding the usage of content for a project e.g. an advertising campaign event decoration and the like. One or more queries regarding the project are presented to the user. Based on the user s responses to the queries content that is approved for the project s intended use s is automatically provided to the user. The determination of which digital representation of the content media object to provide to the user is based at least in part on rules and or guidelines that can be previously provided by an individual or organization or provided dynamically by the current user. Generally the brand rules brand guidelines and or content can be provided for processing preprocessing determinations to Brand Content Server by one or more other servers RSS feeds APIs applications scripts manual edits third party sources content providers and the like.

Content server can be arranged to provide access to content identification information so that particular media objects can be associated with the selected brand content. Web server may also be arranged to provide access to the selected brand content as a service to sources and or resellers of selected content to customers. DAM may also be arranged to incorporate the price information provided by Brand Content server . Additionally network device is arranged to enable one or more of the processes described below in conjunction with .

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary web page that lists of a plurality of questions whose answers are subsequently employed to select one particular type of media object i.e. a logo for use with a brand. Also the web page shown in can be generated from code such as listed in APPENDIX A. The questions shown in are numbered 1 7 and are denoted Q Q respectively henceforth. Questions Q Q include yes no and multiple choice questions. Questions Q Q are also arranged to extract usage information from a user so as to enable the selection of one or more logos whose brand rules and or guidelines regarding usage correspond to the usage information provided by the user s answers to the questions.

Reference is now made to which shows the sample web page of with some of the questions partially answered. The user answers questions Q Q interactively. Specifically after the user answers a question the web page is dynamically updated to reflect the user s answer. Specific answers to some of the questions may impact the relevance of others of the questions. As such when the web page is dynamically updated questions that are not currently relevant are flagged as such or alternatively not displayed at all. Questions that are not relevant can be flagged by struck through text as in or by grayed out text or by such other visual aid.

Reference is now made to which is a graphical representation of an exemplary decision tree for dynamically processing answers to the queries presented in FIG. A. As shown the exemplary decision tree graph in employs three business rules as follows 

The exemplary tree graph shown in is but one of many embodiments of different data structures that can be employed with the invention. Yet another exemplary data structure is a table that lists the various complete subsets of relevant questions for each combination of values of answers to those questions that impact the relevance of the others. For example shows predetermined rules such that the answers to Q and Q impact the relevance of the other questions. Exemplary TABLE I herein below provides such information.

Referring to the user has answered question Q affirmatively and answered question Q negatively. Thus as indicated in TABLE I the questions that are still relevant are Q and Q. As such questions Q and Q are displayed with strike through text indicating that they are not currently relevant. However if the user were to subsequently change the answers to questions Q and Q then questions Q and Q could also dynamically change and appear as relevant too.

As shown in the user completed the answers to questions Q and Q by indicating an ABC Corp. yellow background color and a vertical orientation. Once a complete set of answers is obtained to the currently relevant questions an embodiment of the invention determines if one or more logos with predetermined brand usages can satisfy the user s answers to the provided questions.

Reference is now made to TABLE II which shows a list of 16 logos in rows labeled L L along with their associated meta data in columns labeled Q Q. It can be seen that the meta data for each logo corresponds to various answers to the usage questions Q Q from . The exemplary meta data schema illustrated in is an example of a schema to which the meta data in TABLE II conforms.

then the appropriate logos may be determined from TABLE II to be L L L and L. Similarly if the following answers are received 

It is understood that media objects such as logos may be assigned priorities. For example Table III herein below provides sample priorities assigned to logos L L from Table II.

Thus if logos L L L and L are provided to a user by an embodiment of the invention then L and L would have higher priorities than L and L.

Although the embodiment described above relates to logos different embodiments of the invention can be used with a plurality of types of media objects. Thus different embodiments can be used inter alia to provide brand media objects for signage brochures and other marketing and or sales materials. Furthermore different embodiments can be employed in different types of marketing campaigns e.g. direct mail in store promotions banners television printed publications e mail pay for click search and advertisements on website landing pages.

The present invention can be used to find appropriate branding media for a specific application or file type such as a presentation application spreadsheet application word processing application XML file PERL file HTML file and the like. In this regard different embodiments of the invention may be embodied in different ways e.g. as a macro plug in applet control tool Application Programming Interface API and the like. Also one or more embodiments provide media objects that are appropriate for use with an application based on the application and or the file type and or a particular template being used within the application. Thus for example upon opening a file for a presentation application the embodiment automatically provides media objects to the user that are compatible with that presentation application.

At least one embodiment of the invention can be used to provide a media object that is a presentation advertisement and the like. For example to provide a presentation to a user one or more questions can be generated and the user s responses employed to determine and provide a relevant presentation including questions such as 

Similarly the invention can be used to locate an appropriate variable data template vis a vis questions such as 

At least one embodiment of the invention can be used to determine and provide the user with different types of media objects for a particular use that are digital representations of images sounds and or videos. For example a user searching for an image for a presentation may be provided with questions such as 

Thus it may be appreciated that one or more embodiments can provide one or more types of media objects that are determined to be appropriate for the usage s provided by the user in response to at least one query file type application and the like.

The operation of certain aspects of the embodiments of the invention are now described with respect to B and .

Optionally at block received media objects are indexed for a database based at least in part on meta data included with at least one of the received media objects. Alternatively or in addition to the process at block the process steps to block where the received media objects are indexed for a database based at least in part on other brand rules which can also be received or provided from a template.

At block each media object that is identified for use with the brand is further associated with at least one branch of a decision tree that is generated from the received brand rules. These associations with the media object are stored for subsequent use in generating queries for a user regarding intended use. Next the process returns to performing other actions.

It will be understood that each block of the above flowchart illustrations and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions executing on the processor provide steps for implementing the actions listed in the flowcharts discussed above.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Component is arranged to receive brand usage rules and enable the creation of new rules. Component enables an input interface to receive media objects that can be used in accordance with the brand usage rules. Component is arranged to generate at least one decision tree based on the brand usage rules and also generate queries for the user regarding intended uses. Component enables a database for indexing media objects that can be used by a user in accordance with the brand rules. Component is arranged as a state machine that can provide synchronously or asynchronous determinations in response to the user s answers to displayed queries. Component enables a database for indexing provided brand rules and queries that are displayed to the user regarding the use of the media object with a brand Component is arranged to provide an interface for the user to provide answers to the queries and select at least one determined media object for use with the brand. Additionally component enables an interface for outputting at least one media objects to the user that selects them for use with the brand.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

