---

title: Apparatus and methods for controlling dedicated data transmit mode in a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments for controlling dedicated data transmit mode (DDTM) in a mobile computing device are described. In one or more embodiments, the mobile computing device may support cellular voice communication and wireless data communication. The mobile computing device may comprise a DDTM control module coupled to a DDTM application. The DDTM application may prevent mobile terminated cellular voice communication from interrupting ongoing data communication when enabled. The DDTM control module may be configured to enable and disable the DDTM application. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335499&OS=08335499&RS=08335499
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08335499
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. For example a mobile computing device may support cellular communication over cellular network such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network as well as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO data communication over a wireless radio channel.

In some cases a mobile computing device may be required to implement a dedicated data transmit mode DDTM to preempt voice communication in favor of data communication. While the DDTM may allow the user of the mobile computing device to receive data without interruption the user is prevented from receiving incoming cellular voice calls until an established data communications session is terminated. Accordingly there exists the need for an improved apparatus and methods for controlling DDTM in a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to controlling dedicated data transmit mode DDTM in a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may support cellular voice communication and wireless data communication. The mobile computing device may comprise a DDTM control module coupled to a DDTM application. The DDTM application may prevent cellular voice communication when enabled. The DDTM control module may be configured to enable and disable the DDTM application.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide WWAN data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering WWAN data communications services may include EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems CDMA 1xRTT systems GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing web browser applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth.

In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication. Although a TCP IP PPP protocol data stack may be employed in various implementations it can be appreciated that other suitable types of transport layers network layers and or link layers may be used in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The transceiver module may comprise for example one or more cellular transceivers or components arranged to support communication over a cellular voice channel for a system such as a CDMA GSM and or UMTS cellular system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more WWAN transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WWAN data channel in accordance with one or more WWAN protocols such as EV DO protocols EVDV protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols GSM GPRS protocols EDGE protocols HSDPA protocols and so forth. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WLAN data channel in accordance with one or more WLAN protocols such as IEEE 802.11a b g n protocols IEEE 802.16 protocols IEEE 802.20 protocols PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some implementations the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement various applications including for example a telephone application such as a CDMA GSM and or UMTS cellular telephone application a short message service SMS application a multimedia message service MMS application an e mail application an instant messaging IM application and a browser application . The applications also may comprise for example a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a video application such as a streaming video player e.g. Internet television application or video conferencing application and an audio application such as a streaming audio player e.g. Internet radio application or audio teleconferencing application. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the applications may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise or implement a DDTM application . When enabled the DDTM application may be arranged to favor data communication over voice communications. For example the DDTM application may be arranged to detect the invocation and or initiation of a data communications session and to prevent the mobile computing device from receiving incoming cellular voice calls until the data communications session concludes and or is terminated. Accordingly after a data communications session is invoked and or initiated the user of the mobile computing device will not be interrupted by incoming cellular voice calls until an established data communications session is terminated. It can be appreciated that this data only mode of operation may be advantageous in some situations but not others.

The mobile computing device may comprise or implement a DDTM control module coupled to the DDTM application . The DDTM control module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as DDTM control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In one or more embodiments the DDTM control module may be implemented as a DDTM application programming interface API on the host processor . In such embodiments the DDTM control module may comprise a remote API with respect to the radio processor .

The DDTM control module may be arranged to automatically and or selectively enable and disable the function of the DDTM application . In various embodiments the DDTM control module may be configured to enable or disable the function of the DDTM application based on the type of application launched and or being run by the mobile computing device and or the host processor . For example the DDTM control module may be arranged to detect the invocation and or initiation of one or more of the applications and to enable or disable the DDTM application based on the particular type of application.

In various embodiments the user of the mobile computing device may configure DDTM preferences for the DDTM control module to select which of the applications are to have the DDTM application enabled and or disabled. The DDTM preferences also may include default settings as to particular messaging and or communications applications. In some implementations the user may be prompted to enable and or disable the DDTM application when a particular type of application is launched.

In one embodiment for example the DDTM control module may be configured to automatically and or selectively enable the DDTM application for one or more of the VoIP application the video application and the audio application . In various implementations the DDTM control module may be configured to disable the DDTM application by default until such applications are launched. Accordingly when the mobile computing device launches and or is running at least one of the VoIP application the video application and the audio application the DDTM control module e.g. DDTM API may be arranged to communicate with the radio processor and enable the DDTM application . When such applications are closed the DDTM control module may communicate with the radio processor to disable the DDTM application . In such an embodiment the user will not be interrupted by incoming cellular voice calls when the mobile computing device is communicating using the VoIP application receiving video content using the video application e.g. Internet television application and or receiving audio content using the audio application .

In this embodiment the DDTM control module may be configured to automatically and or selectively disable the DDTM application for one or more of the SMS application the MMS application the e mail application the IM application and the browser application . In various implementations the DDTM control module may be configured to disable the DDTM application for such applications by default. Accordingly the user may receive incoming cellular voice calls when using the SMS application the MMS application the e mail application the IM application and or the browser application . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the DDTM control module may be configured in various ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. For example the DDTM control module may be configured to disable the DDTM application for any type of application which generally may be run as background task when performing cellular voice communication.

In one or more embodiments the DDTM control module may be configured to enable and disable the function of the DDTM application based on one or more Quality of Service QoS requirements. In various implementations the DDTM control module may be arranged to access a QoS database . The QoS database may comprise any type of data structure e.g. array file table record and may be implemented by various types of storage media e.g. memory memory . The QoS database may be arranged to store a QoS matrix associating QoS requirements with one or more applications data types and or media content. In some cases the QoS matrix may be related to and or specified by one or more wireless standards such as EVDO or UMTS wireless standards.

In various implementations the QoS matrix may comprise static and or dynamic QoS indicators for one or more of the applications data types and or media content. The QoS indicators may comprise for example various metrics or requirements for bandwidth data delivery e.g. bit rate frame rate data loss e.g. lost packets blocked data rate latency transmission delay e.g. delay jitter inter arrival jitter video quality audio quality resolution data compression and so forth. In such implementations the QoS indicators may be used by the radio processor for resource allocation and or prioritization for one or more of the applications data types and media content. For example the radio processor may provide the most bandwidth for applications data types and or media content having the highest QoS requirements.

In various embodiments the DDTM control module may be configured to enable and disable the function of the DDTM application based on the QoS matrix and or QoS indicators. For example the DDTM control module may be configured to examine QoS indicators for various applications data types and media content and to determine whether to enable or disable the function of the DDTM application according to the QoS indicators. Because the radio processor generally controls the QoS the determination of whether to enable or disable the DTTM application may be implemented at the radio processor layer in some cases.

By observing the QoS indicators the DTTM control module may enable the DDTM application when QoS requirements are relatively high e.g. at or above certain limits with respect to one or more QoS metrics . For applications requiring high bandwidth fast transmission rates and very short latency e.g. VoIP Internet TV video conferencing etc. the QoS requirements for the mobile computing device and or radio processor may be relatively high for such applications data types and or media content. If the mobile computing device and or radio processor requires relatively high QoS the DDTM control module may enable the DTTM application . Accordingly in such cases the mobile computing device may be incapable of cellular voice communication.

On the other hand if high QoS is not required by the mobile computing device and or the radio processor the DDTM control module may disable the DTTM application . For applications capable of being run as background tasks e.g. e mail web browsing contact downloads etc. the QoS requirements may be relatively low for such applications data types and or media content. Accordingly cellular voice communication and various types of data communication may occur at the same time and or at different levels.

The logic flow may comprise selecting one or more application types for which to enable or disable DDTM block . In one or more embodiments the DDTM may be enabled for an application type comprising at least one of a VoIP application a video application and an audio application . The DDTM may be disabled for an application type comprising at least one of an e mail application and a browser application . The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The logic flow may comprise determining a particular application type block and enabling and disabling a dedicated data transmit mode DDTM based on the application type block . In one or more embodiments the application type may be determined when one or more applications are launched. In various implementations the DDTM may prevent cellular voice communication when enabled and may be implemented by a mobile computing device that supports cellular voice communication and wireless data communication.

The logic flow may comprise accessing a QoS database block . In one or more embodiments the QoS database may be arranged to store a QoS matrix comprising QoS indicators to be used to determine when to enable and disable the DDTM.

The logic flow may comprise obtaining one or more quality of service QoS requirements block and enabling and disabling the DDTM based on the one or more QoS requirements block . In one or more embodiments the DDTM may prevent cellular voice communication when enabled and may be implemented by a mobile computing device that supports cellular voice communication and wireless data communication. In various implementations the DDTM may be enabled for relatively high QoS requirements and may be disabled for relatively low QoS requirements.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

