---

title: Production of UHMWPE sheet materials
abstract: UHMWPE panels of large width may be prepared by a continuous ram extrusion process by employing a slit die which preferably narrows from both sides in a direction transverse to the machine direction, and/or which employs a plurality of transversely positioned cooling zones located on the top and the bottom of the die, proximate the exit thereof. The panel exits the die at a temperature lower than the crystalline melt temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07803450&OS=07803450&RS=07803450
owner: Quadrant EPP AG
number: 07803450
owner_city: Lenzburg
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20060721
---
The present invention is directed to the production of sheets of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene in widths preferably greater than about 60 cm by ram extrusion.

Conventional polyethylene polymers with which many are familiar i.e. low and high density polyethylene are waxy solids not known for exceptional strength properties. Also due to their relative softness while generally lubricious they are easily abraded. Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE on the other hand is an exceptionally strong and durable polymer totally unlike its poorer relatives.

UHMWPE is prepared by special polymerization processes in which the polyethylene chains acquire an exceptionally high molecular weight typically having number average molecular weights of from 1.5 10to 1 10daltons supplied as a resin powder. UHMWPE also includes those polymers defined in ASTM D4020 05 D6712 01 and ISO 11542 2. While generally homopolymeric in nature UHMWPE also includes copolymers having limited amounts of other copolymerizable comonomers. In the case of copolymer UHMWPE the aforementioned ASTM and ISO requirements should be met. It is their very long polymer chains which make these polymers unique. However this same feature is also the cause of major processing problems. While ordinary polyethylene can be melt extruded even polyethylene of very high molecular weight attempts to melt extrude UHMWPE have been largely unsuccessful despite much research in this area and virtually all UHMWPE products are produced by compression molding or ram extrusion as indicated by U.S. Pat. No. 5 286 576 which indicates that processing methods applicable to conventional thermoplastics such as continuous extrusion calendaring and injection molding are generally inapplicable to UHMWPE.

Thus for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 422 061 discloses the manufacture of sliding members by screw extrusion of UHMWPE from the melt. However for the process to work mixtures of UHMWPE lower molecular weight polyethylene PE and lubricants must be employed. Considerable loss in mechanical properties thus results due to the dilution of the UHMWPE with lower molecular weight species. Further losses in properties are caused by shear degradation in the extruder.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 308 discloses melt extrusion through a die whose final cross section is considerably reduced as compared with the diameter of the extruder and wherein a very low elongational velocity gradient is maintained. However despite these requirements only very high molecular weight PE and UHMWPE in the lowest molecular weight range about 1.5 10 are useful. U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 484 discloses a screw geometry for a single screw extruder said to be useable with PE resins having molecular weights greater than 1 10. However large profiles cannot be made using such a melt extrusion process.

The problems associated with processing of UHMWPE are due in part to the gel like nature of the polymer above its crystalline melt temperature roughly 135 C. 150 C. While ordinary polyethylene is a viscous molasses consistency liquid at such temperatures UHMWPE is a swollen gel which has an extremely high viscosity and which exerts exceptional frictional stress against the walls of extruders and the like. The problems associated with UHMWPE are described quite clearly by U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 883 631 and 3 887 319. For the reasons discussed therein ram extrusion and compression molding have thus far been the only processes of producing UHMWPE products which are used extensively.

In compression molding UHMWPE powder is introduced into a coffin like mold of very thick section. A thick cover which fits within the mold cavity is then placed on top of the powder and the whole assembly is heated to above the crystalline melt temperature while being compressed to very high pressure. The molds are then slowly and uniformly cooled and the product generally in the form of a thick slab is demolded. For thin stock for example of 1 cm to 3 cm thickness the thick slabs are skived or planed to produce thin stock. The skiving process requires an extra process step and can result in a product with end curl. As can be seen compression molding is a cost intensive and labor intensive method of producing UHMWPE products. However it is essentially the only process which can be used to make panels or sheets of large width and is thus still a much used process.

A continuous process for the production of thin gauge UHMWPE sheet has been used by Crown Plastics Harrison Ohio U.S.A. In this process a roller belt press previously manufactured by Hoover Ball and Bearing Co. as the Lam N Hard laminator and as described for use in wood lamination by Tarkow et al. Surface Densification of Wood FPJ 18 a 104 107 is used to consolidate UHMWPE powder. However the process thus far has been limited to thin sheets with a maximum thickness of 3 4 mm and relatively narrow widths. Only recently has a 24 inch wide 0.6 m sheet been produced by this method and it is not believed to be possible to produce wider sheets due to the high pressures involved.

Ram extrusion is a unique process which is considerably different from melt extrusion. Ram extrusion may be illustrated with reference to U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 883 631 3 887 319 and 4 145 175. Despite the fact that the ram extrusion technology disclosed in these references is more than 25 years old there has been only incremental change in ram extrusion processes since that time.

The overall process may be described in relation to which shows schematically in cross section a simple ram extrusion machine for production of a UHMWPE rod. The ram extrusion machine consists of very thick section steel member having a through channel into one end of which is received ram . UHMWPE powder flows gravitationally into channel from hopper . The ram then travels to the left compressing the powder in the channel which is now die channel . This sequence is repeated every few minutes. Die channel is heated by heaters which surround the die and heats the resin particles to a relatively high temperature for example between 350 F. and 500 F. 177 C. and 260 C. . Temperatures in excess of 500 F. 260 C. are generally avoided since the polymer rapidly oxidizes above this temperature. Oxidized polymer exerts yet more friction with the die and due to the oxidation products have reduced physical characteristics. The ram exerts a pressure up to several thousand lb in and consolidates the heated gel like particles of UHMWPE. The UHMWPE rod exits the die at discrete intervals and at this stage the rod is hot higher than the crystalline melt temperature and relatively translucent. However at some distance from the die face the polymer has crystallized to an opaque solid.

Ram extrusion has been used to produce round profiles of relatively large diameter e.g. 300 mm and also tubing small profiles of complex shape and boards having a width of up to about 660 mm and thicknesses of e.g. 100 mm. However such boards are far from flat as produced. If flat boards or thin stock is needed the boards are skived. Because of the high friction within the die and consequently the very high pressures involved the ram even though made of very high strength steel may buckle. This is particularly so in parts whose cross section is quite asymmetric and even more so in parts having a substantially rectangular cross section of high aspect ratio. For example a ram for producing a board of 1 cm 30 cm rectangular cross section may exhibit buckling whereas a ram for a thicker board for example 10 cm 30 cm will have virtually no problem in this respect at all. Not only can buckling be destructive of the ram but the distorted ram may scrape the die walls introducing metal particles into the product and altering die geometry.

It would be highly desirable to employ ram extrusion to produce sheets and panels of large width for example 1 to 3 meters in width and of a range of thicknesses in particular in standard thicknesses which can be sold as is without skiving. However attempts to use the ram extrusion process to prepare such sheets and panels meeting the necessary product standards have been largely futile. The failure of others in the past can be attributed to a number of factors. First the nature of UHMWPE is such that there is considerable volume contraction upon both cooling and crystallization. Differential cooling or crystallization generates internal stress as does also differing degrees of polymer orientation. In small profiles or even larger products which are relatively symmetrical these problems are minimal or are to a degree self cancelling. However in large widths these problems manifest themselves as undesirable product characteristics such as thickness variations bowing warping surface fracture surface irregularities walking edge waviness etc. The larger the width of the product the more difficult is the control of such defects.

Moreover the ram extrusion apparatus itself also has severe shortcomings. The large top and bottom surface areas associated with a slit die coupled with the large internal pressure create forces which are very difficult to control. A slit die of 1 cm height and 1 m width and of 0.5 m length may experience a force of 2.1 10N or more on each half of the die depending upon the internal pressure which is always high. The restraining bolts in this case will have to bear almost 4.4 10N of force. Even when such a die is constructed of high strength stainless steel of for example a 10 cm thickness on each side the die will deflect so much due to the internal pressure that a board with pronounced greater thickness in the middle as opposed to the edges results. Dies of this size and construction will also rupture unless supported by massive restraining structures located exterior to the die.

Unlike symmetrical profiles such as rods tubes square stock or small irregular profiles the large surface area and high aspect ratio of sheets and panels causes them to distort upon cooling below the crystalline melt temperature external to the die. Differences in the rate of cooling and crystallization can cause warping bowing thickness and surface irregularities and the like. Such defects would then require minimally shaving of the surface and machining to size. However some defects for example warp and bow may be impossible to remove.

For all the above reasons it has been considered impossible to produce wide sheets and panels of a quality which is commercially acceptable by ram extrusion.

It has now been surprisingly discovered that flat panels of UHWMPE in widths greater than 0.6 m and of substantially constant thickness can be produced by ram extrusion through a slit die as a partially crystalline solid the slit die provided with a plurality of transversely positioned cooling zones on both the top and bottom of the die proximate the exit of the die. It has further been surprisingly discovered that a higher quality flatter product is obtained if a die is provided which is sandwiched by a support structure the die having a slit of non uniform height when not under pressure but in cooperation with flexure of the die and support structure under ram extrusion pressure is distorted so as to provide a substantially flat product. Preferably the die as described is used in conjunction with the multiple cooling zones to provide a stable and robust process.

The ram extrusion process employed by the subject invention upstream from the die is substantially that described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 887 319 3 883 631 and 4 145 175 herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention pertains to the ram extrusion of panels of high width and aspect ratio as described hereinafter. The term panel refers to a substantially flat extrusion. Typically the sharp corners of the nominally rectangular cross section may be rounded and indeed the entire edge portions may be circular elliptical etc. A purely rectangular cross section with sharp corners is generally not desirable due to stress points in the die at such corners. The principle utility of the subject invention is to produce large width sheets of constant thickness this constant thickness extending to a position at or proximate the edge. Thus by the definition of panel as used herein is meant a generally flat sheet of less than 0.050 inch 1.27 mm thickness variation over a central portion of the panel which includes at least about 80 of the overall panel width preferably at least 90 of the panel width and most preferably 95 or more of the overall panel width. Thus it would not depart from the spirit of the invention to produce a sheet having a dumbbell or other cross section with edge portions significantly thicker or thinner than the majority of the panel. These portions can easily be removed preferably by the manufacturer but also by the end user by conventional sawing or slicing steps.

Because of its large width and of its asymmetry due to the high width to thickness aspect ratio the production of wide panels from a substantially rectangular die i.e. a die with substantially parallel surfaces across its width is very problematic and many attempts to do so have failed. Unlike many smaller products which are ram extruded at exit temperatures above the crystalline melt temperature panels of large width upon initiation of crystallization will distort in unpredictable ways due to the volume contraction which occurs during crystallization as well as internal stresses which are created. However allowing full solidification prior to exit from the die is generally not practiced due to loss of contact with the die walls. If the die walls are progressively narrowed toward the exit contact can be maintained but the buildup of pressure can at times be so high as to separate the die halves or even to rupture the die or its support.

The UHMWPE panels of the present invention are partially crystalline as a result of exiting the slit die of the ram extrusion apparatus at a temperature below the crystalline melt temperature. While for thin gauge panels i.e. those having thicknesses of 1.5 2 cm or less the entire panel temperature e.g. throughout its thickness may be less than the crystalline melt temperature for thicker panels especially the interior of the panel may be at a higher temperature. Thus it is not necessary that the entire panel be at such a low temperature provided that the surface of the panel and preferably the panel interior to a depth of about 3 mm is below the crystalline melt temperature. To further reduce the interior temperature of thick panels the rate of extrusion can be slowed thus spending more time in the cooling zone the cooling zone may be extended or the temperature of the cooling fluid can be lowered. These methods may be employed singly or in any combination.

Applicants have surprisingly discovered a means of providing a solidified product without loss of die contact while minimizing any pressure excursions. The process employs a back pressure device and is the subject of a copending application entitled Process For Ram Extrusion Of UHMWPE Sheet Products filed on even date herewith. However despite the use of a back pressure device Applicants have found that it is very difficult to keep the process running in a stable manner i.e. defined as producing a flat commercially acceptable product with a small reject rate.

Applicants believe that the non robust nature of such processes is due to the same factors which destroy product uniformity of amorphous panels during cooling and crystallization but in this case the irregularities are exhibited within the die as opposed to outside the die. Applicants have surprisingly discovered that a robust process can be provided if a plurality of three or more cooling zones are located proximate the exit face of the die distributed in the width direction on both the top and bottom die halves or in a monolithic die above and below the die slit. The plurality of cooling zones are preferably arranged symmetrically on either the top half the bottom half or both about a centerline of the die. Most preferably 5 10 cooling zones or more are utilized on both the top and bottom greater numbers being advantageous with increasing panel width. Thus far for sheets of approximately 1 m to 1.2 in width 5 to 7 zones of substantially equal size as shown in are preferably used. The top and bottom die halves need not have the same number of cooling zones but this is preferred.

A plurality of cooling zones are independently controlled. Each cooling zone is preferably independently controlled although in a given installation it may be found that two or more zones may be controlled together. Experience has shown however that independent control is highly desirable and in most cases necessary. Each cooling zone preferably has its own inlet and outlet although outlets may be shared in parallel with adjacent zones in suitable designs. Series connection of all zones will not work. The zones are fed cooling fluid which may be gas or liquid but is highly preferred to be liquid due to the high heat removal demands. Cooling liquid may be water although glycols or other heat transfer fluids may be used. Water is preferable and a closed system with cooling means which assures uniform water temperature is desirable. The temperature in a given zone is measured by a suitable measuring means preferably by a thermocouple positioned in the die proximate the zone and the flow and or temperature of coolant is regulated by conventional process controls. Preferably proportional valving rather than on off valving is employed and temperature regulation is preferably adjusted by varying the rate of coolant flow rather than adjusting the coolant temperature. Temperature may also be adjusted by providing sufficient cooling to provide a lower than desired temperature and then elevating the temperature to the desired temperature by electrical heating. This is not preferred. Temperature in each cooling zone is preferably regulated between 3 F. 1.7 C. of the set point more preferably 1 F. 0.6 C. .

The temperatures of the individual zones are adjusted to provide a flat product. In one machine embodiment the cooling zones positioned across one of the die halves will be at the same temperature for the majority of the machine operation and the cooling zones in the lower die half will be at a uniform temperature relative to each other but at a temperature different from the temperature of the upper die half cooling zones. Depending in part upon the length of the cooling zone in the machine direction the temperature of the individual zones may range from 80 F. 27 C. to 200 F. 93 C. preferably from 90 F. 32 C. to 180 F. 82 C. . The bottom cooling zones are in general maintained at a lower temperature than those on the top i.e. different by about 1 F. to 25 F. 0.6 C. to 14 C. in general about 3 F. to 15 F. 1.7 C. to 8.3 C. . It has been surprisingly discovered that the lower temperatures produce sheets with shot marks of relatively low height. The multiple transverse cooling zones can also be used with dies designed to extrude narrower panels for example of 0.4 m width.

The machine operator observing the panels exiting the machine will adjust the cooling zone temperature individually if warpage or surface imperfections are noted. For example if the panel warps or curls in an upward direction on the far right side the top and bottom zones corresponding to the position of the warpage will be adjusted by making the top zone colder or the bottom zone warmer or both. In general it is desirable to have the temperature of a given zone as close as possible to adjoining zones to minimize uneven cooling. In like fashion if the entire sheet bows uniformly i.e. curls then the temperature differential between the top and bottom zones is adjusted to remove the bow. Only minimal training of the operator is required to maintain stable operation.

The process can also be easily implemented as an automatic process in hardware and or software for example by scanning the panel transversely at one or more positions along its length by means of an optical comparator or the like or feel gauges etc. which detect warpage or bowing and make corrections automatically. It should be noted that due to the nature of the problems associated with ram extrusion of high aspect ratio panels numerous factors will cause instability for example fluctuations in coolant temperature raw material batch changes etc and even the opening of a door to the operating environment. Further information regarding the cooling zones will be presented in the Examples.

The panels of the subject invention should be flat i.e. free from warp and bowing and also of uniform thickness preferably 0.030 inch 0.76 mm . The cross section is thus substantially rectangular. However the sides of the panels are generally rounded at least at the corners since such rounding lowers the pressure in the die and also eliminates sharp die corners which would then be points of stress which could crack at the high pressures involved. By substantially rectangular is meant a generally flat sheet when viewed from the end with perpendicular curved or radiused sides and parallel or substantially parallel main surfaces. Likewise a rectangular die slit is one which has two faces having a length equal to the width of the panel to be produced whose faces are flat and parallel to each other under extrusion pressure the faces connected by sides which are preferably rounded or radiused. It is the flatness of the panels and of the die faces which produce a substantially flat panel which satisfy the definition of substantially rectangular herein.

It has been found however that if a die of substantially rectangular geometry when not under operating pressure is employed as a die in the extrusion of large width panels the resulting panels do not have uniform thickness have numerous surface irregularities and in general produce a commercially inferior and generally unacceptable product. For most applications such products have to be surface machined or skived to produce a flat surface. This process is wasteful of expensive polymer and adds further process steps which further increases cost.

It has been found that it is advantageous to utilize a die which is manufactured with a shape which is other than substantially rectangular in particular a shape in which the edge region of the top and bottom surfaces of the die slit are not flat and parallel to each other in conjunction with a support structure which like the die distorts under stress the die and support structure coacting such that distortion of the non rectangular die under operating pressure transforms the die opening into an opening such that a flat product is produced. In a further embodiment the die and support structure are merged into one by employing massive die top and bottom halves. Such a massive die is not preferred due to its cost.

The preferred die geometry is one in which the most central portion of the die is of lesser height than edge regions of the die. When the die expands against the support structure the edge regions of the die will distort the least while the central area and the support structure above and below the central area will distort more bringing the faces of the die to a substantially parallel geometry. For the purposes of this invention a die will have substantially parallel geometry if during operation a panel which has thickness variations over its width of less than 0.050 inch 1.27 mm is produced. Applicants have discovered that a high quality panel of large width may be produced by employing a die which preferably has a dual taper and one in which the die is cooled proximate the exit such that the panel exits the die at a temperature below the crystalline melt temperature.

The dual tapers of a preferred embodiment of the subject invention die may be divided conceptually into a vertical taper and a transverse taper. The vertical taper is a narrowing of the die proximate its inlet end as viewed from the side i.e. a narrowing in a vertical direction. The transverse taper is a narrowing of the height of the die slit in a direction transverse to the machine direction i.e. across the width of the continuously produced panel stock.

The vertical taper is more clearly shown by reference to . The die is preferably machined from stainless steel in two parts and . The die slit is of substantially constant height in the machine direction up to the vertical taper although it is possible to provide an additional narrow taper to the die in the hot zones of the die. Thus instead of a necessary single vertical taper there may be multiple vertical tapers or a taper of progressively changing slope the die walls becoming substantially parallel prior to the die exit face and prior to or proximate the cooling zone. The area is the ram entrance area and has substantially constant height to accommodate ram . Opening allows UHMWPE powder to be introduced into cavity . The ram advances toward the die exit face and stops at point thus compacting the resin powder over a length L. The vertical taper starts at point although it may also start later i.e. further toward the die exit face . The taper unlike those taught by the prior art for use in manufacturing small profiles is quite minimal the included angle preferably being less than 10 altogether more preferably less than 5 and most preferably between 1 and 3 . The taper may be symmetrical about the centerline of the die or may be asymmetric to the extent that all the taper is expressed in one of the die halves. Preferably the taper is evenly divided between the die halves and is somewhat less than 3 in total. The taper extends over length L. This length is determined by the angle of the taper and the ratio of the height of the entrance ram channel and the nominal height of the exit slit of the die. In a die for producing panel stock of nominal 0.375 inch or about 1 cm thickness the length of the vertical taper is preferably about 3 inches 7.5 cm . If the length of this taper is too long or extends substantially into the cooler zones of the die the well known incompressibility of UHMWPE will tend to force the die halves apart to an even greater extent than that due to normal internal pressure.

If T is the height at the edge of the die exit slit the height at other portions of the die may be roughly established by Te and Tm where Te is the height at a distance De from the cavity edge where De is 9 inches 22.5 cm or less and Tm is the height of the cavity at a distance Dm from the cavity edge where Dm 9 inches 22.5 cm . The values of Te and Tm for dies of nominally 1.2 m width is then given by 0.00275 and 0.00275 0.00175 

The constants 0.00275 and 0.00175 are related to the thickness of the die not the cavity height the thickness of any supporting structures the width of the die etc. Due to the complex nature of the process and the intricacies of the die etc. per se for example the cooling passages die length die transition zone etc. for dies of appreciably different dimensions different constants and different limiting values of De and Dm must be determined. Resort may be had to techniques such as finite element analysis for example software for which is readily available. However it may be more expedient to machine the die by trial and error with the material removal being conservative such that the final shape is approached by successive refinements without having to begin the machining process again.

The difference T Tmay be determined empirically by production of a die having a small and preferably inadequate value of T T performing a trial ram extrusion and measuring the differences in thickness of the panel produced in a direction transverse to the machine direction. If significant differences in thickness or surface irregularities are noted the die can then be machined to produce a greater height variance in the slit. It should be noted that the most advantageous shape of the die surface is not necessarily circular but may indeed be parabolic hyperbolic ellipsoidal etc. and may in fact as later discussed be multiply tapered.

It has been found through a great deal of effort that the shape of the die slit and the value of T Tis dependent on several factors which together define the requisite geometry. By the latter term is meant a die slit shape which in conjunction with the operating parameters of the machine e.g. resin type temperature internal pressure length machine direction of die width transverse of die preferably produce a panel product with a thickness variation across the width of the panel of less than 0.050 inch 1.27 mm more preferably less than 0.030 inch 0.76 mm and most preferably less than 0.020 inch 0.51 mm . Since these values are total thickness variation the surface height fluctuations are generally half these values i.e. preferably 0.010 inch 0.25 mm or less.

The parameters which are most important in determining the transverse slit taper are the internal pressure the width of the panel and the deflection of the support structure restraining means preferably used. As the width of the panel increases the force exerted on the two mold halves at any given pressure increases also. This pressure will tend to force the mold halves apart and in prior machines has literally done so. The die halves of the preferred embodiment of the subject invention machines are about 11 12 cm in thickness. If these die halves were unsupported on their exterior they would bend so much in producing a 1 cm thick panel 1.2 m wide that they would buckle and break. It would be possible of course to make the die halves of much thicker material. However stainless steel is expensive and even were the die halves 25 cm thick bending would still be severe. A preferred material for the dies is T420 stainless steel preferably polished and coated with a wear resistant and preferably lubricious coating. Conversion coatings and preferably metal coatings such as hard chrome or nickel may be used. Advantageously diamond like carbon DLC coatings such as supplied by Diamonex Products Allentown Pa. as Diamonex DLC or amorphous diamond coatings such as are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 103 305 herein incorporated by reference are used. Such diamond coatings are well known for their low coefficients of friction. Peripheral die components can be made of hardened steel for example PHS 4140 prehardened steel.

The degree of distortion of the die along the direction transverse to the machine direction is dependent upon the width of the panel being produced. The greater the panel width the greater the internal die surface area and the greater the force exerted on the die halves. Moreover transverse to the machine direction the distortion may be viewed as a force moment distant from the securing devices uniting the die halves. For example in a two piece die secured on its flanks by a series of bolts or similar devices distortion will be greater the further from the securing devices. Thus the die will distort somewhat more in the middle than at the edges. Moreover the force on the securing bolts will receive a much greater contribution from the central area of the die than from the edges of the die.

To decrease the distortion of the die a window frame support structure is preferably used with the dies of the present invention. The window frame consists of massive supports above and below the dies these supports having a high modulus. Preferably the supports are made of carbon steel for example Viscount 44 steel. The supports are shown in as and above and below the die . These together with connecting bolts which are located on both sides of the structure form a frame about the die halves and keeping them in compression. In a preferred machine the upper and lower supports are about 40 cm thick or of greater thickness and about as long as the die in the machine direction. They are wider than the die halves by some 10 15 cm on each side so that massive bolts may be used to tension all together. Despite the massiveness ca. 3 tons of steel each of the supports deflection is still observed. However the more massive the support the less the deflection. A plurality of individual supports rather than a single support may also be used.

Thus for relatively narrow panels of 0.6 to 1 m by using supports of exceptionally heavy section for example 1 m in thickness or by reverse beveling the supports to counter distortion the die slit may have minimal transverse taper or even no taper. However such massive supports are generally undesirable as they not only increase machine cost but engender a severe weight penalty as well thus requiring a stronger and hence more massive base i.e. floor to support the weight.

In a further embodiment the slit die is machined to have a straight non tapered main section or even one with a reverse taper i.e. with greater height in the middle than at the edges but is used with contoured window frame supports as shown in where again the contours are exaggerated for clarity. Supports have inwardly tapered surfaces which when assembled bearing on die halves will distort slit such that the shape is not substantially rectangular but is more similar to the shapes of . Thus when assembled the die will not be substantially rectangular. Under operation however the pressure in the mold will attempt to force the die halves apart the support structure surface abutting the die will bend upwards centered about the middle of the support and the slit will bow outwards and distort to near net shape i.e to a shape which produces a panel product of substantially rectangular cross section.

Thus with respect to the die geometry the shape of the slit is such so as to provide substantially planar top and bottom surfaces of the product panel when under load i.e. at the high operating pressure of the ram extrusion process. This achievement is accomplished by providing a contoured mold which distorts to the desired shape under load a non contoured mold with a contoured and distortable window frame or a non contoured mold with a massive and substantially non distortable window frame. For a die of ca. 1.2 m width and ca. 1 cm exit slit height the supports above and below the die will have to be about 0.75 m thick for the latter embodiment. Preferred dies also have the vertical taper previously described.

The rams used in producing the panels of the subject invention are stepped rams as illustrated in preferably made of high strength steel such as Viscount 44 steel. The end of the ram which penetrates into cavity of has a thickness of just slightly less than the thickness of the cavity and a length approximately L see . The ram is preferably hydraulically operated by one or more hydraulic cylinders and enters the die through a seal for example of polyamide. The foregoing attributes of the ram are typical of rams used in ram extrusion of conventional shapes. From the narrow end toward the hydraulics at the right not shown the thickness of the ram increases significantly to a much thicker section . This thicker section reduces the flexure and any tendency to buckle which would otherwise occur. The thickness of the ram portion may be 7 cm for example while the tongue may be 1 cm. Note that the tongue of the ram in the case of the preferred embodiment is only slightly thicker than the die thickness at the exit end by a factor corresponding to the vertical taper of the die. It is also possible to employ rams having a tongue of the same thickness as the die exit but this is not preferred except perhaps in panels of greater thickness e.g. 4 cm preferably 10 cm or more.

The die contains at least one heated and one cooled section relative to the machine direction. One heated section is proximate the portion of the die where the ram enters the die although it may also be advantageous to establish a cooling zone between the ram entry point or cavity of and the heating zone to minimize the sintering of resin powder near the powder inlet. The heating zone preferably begins about 6 inches 15 cm prior to the start of the vertical taper and continues for a length in the machine direction such that full consolidation of UHMWPE occurs. This length will vary inversely with the temperature established in the heated zone the hot zone and directly with the thickness of the panel. Neither of these inverse and direct variables are necessarily linear. Thicker panels require a longer period at a given temperature to consolidate the interior of the panel. The temperature in the hot zone is preferably from 260 F. 127 C. to 500 F. 260 C. more preferably 400 450 F. 204 232 C. most preferably about 420 F. 216 C. . Temperatures higher than 500 F. 260 C. will tend to cause oxidative degradation of the resin and are not desired. The hot zone may be divided into several subzones of varying temperatures. Temperatures are sensed by conventional devices preferably by thermocouples interfacing with automatic temperature control devices. Heating is most preferably accomplished by cartridge heaters inserted transversely into the die.

A plurality of such heating zones is shown in the perspective drawing of a slit die in . Both die halves and have a plurality of passages bored through the die transverse to the machine direction. These passages may contain cartridge type resistance heaters or may use hot oil etc. as a heating fluid.

The cooling section is preferably located proximate the exit of the die and consists of a plurality of cooling passages each having an inlet and an outlet. Other arrangements of cooling zones for example a plurality of inlets bored parallel to the machine direction and communicating with one or more common outlets bored transversely to the machine direction are also possible. The arrangement itself is not critical. However whatever the arrangement the cooling zones must allow for temperature variation to be established as desired transverse to the die slit for example to maintain the central area of the slit at a higher or lower temperature than the edge regions or intermediate zones.

It is highly beneficial to the operation of the present ram extrusion process to minimize the build up of pressure within the die. Good temperature control is a necessary requirement for producing a consistent product but increasing temperature does not have a great effect in lowering operating pressure since UHMWPE is gel like and rubbery rather than a viscous fluid. It has been discovered that addition of small amounts of long chain fatty acids and fatty acid salts such as stearic acid palmitic acid linolenic acid and their salts particularly their calcium and zinc salts aid in lowering internal pressure presumably by lowering friction of the gel particles with the die walls. Other lubricants such as montan esters amides polyethylene waxes silicone oils and the like are also suitable. Such lubricants are generally used in amounts of from 0.1 to 3 by weight more preferably 0.2 to 2 by weight most preferably 0.5 to 1.5 by weight. It is important however to minimize the amount of lubricant to avoid loss of mechanical properties. Thus it is preferable that 1.5 or less be employed.

It has also been surprisingly discovered that minimizing oxygen content of the resin powder during the process greatly lowers operating pressure. Typically in ram extrusion resin powder is pneumatically directed to a supply hopper above the ram extrusion machine by air. It has been found that if an oxygen free gas is injected into the hopper preferably at or near the bottom to sweep or sparge air out of the hopper that the pressure in the die is lowered by 150 to 200 lb in a very surprising amount. This reduction in pressure may result in lowering the force exerted against the die halves by as much as 1.5 10lbs pressure in a 1 m 0.5 m die. Any oxygen free or oxygen depleted gas may be used including helium argon carbon dioxide nitrogen or the like.

The UHMWPEs employed in the process are conventional powdery resins as supplied by Ticona Braskem and DSM for example. Preferred number average molecular weight ranges are between 2 10Da and 10 10Da more preferably between 4 10Da and 8 10Da. Although the preferred UHMWPE used in the present invention is homopolymeric or substantially homopolymeric i.e. with only a low content of copolymerizable comonomers the compositions may as also indicated elsewhere herein include conventional processing aids or property modifying additives. Examples of the latter groups of components include but are not limited to components such as thermal stabilizers UV stabilizers nucleating and clarifying agents dyes and pigments electrically conducting materials such as metal powders carbon powders graphite and the like fillers for example non reinforcing fillers having BET surface areas 

Having described in detail individual components of the present invention a preferred embodiment is a ram extrusion process employing a slit die having a width greater than 0.6 m and preferably having an aspect ratio of width to height greater than 10 1 more preferably greater than 20 1 and yet more preferably greater than 40 1 the die having a top portion and a bottom portion each of the top and bottom portions containing a plurality of three and preferably at least five cooling zones positioned across the width of the die the temperature of a plurality of zones in each set of zones being independently adjustable. The length of the cooling zone in the machine direction and the temperature of the zones are such that a UHMWPE panel exiting the die has cooled below its crystalline melt temperature and is at least partially crystalline.

In another preferred embodiment a two piece die the exit of which is not the shape of the desired cross section of a ram extruded product when not under pressure is contained within support structure of high strength and modulus which bears against the die halves and restrains their distortion outwards at the operating pressure of the ram extrusion process. However under pressure distortion which cannot be completely restrained by the support structure distorts the die and support structure in such a way that the die exit assumes a shape which allows the ram extrusion of panels of at least 0.6 m width and preferably of at least the aspect ratios previously described the panel having variations in thickness of less than 0.050 inch 1.27 mm preferably less than 0.030 inch 0.76 mm and more preferably less than 0.015 inch 0.38 mm . The die has at least one cooling zone in each die half proximate the die exit such that the UHMWPE panel exiting the die is at a temperature below the crystalline melt temperature preferably below 137 C. more preferably below 250 F. 121 C. more preferably below 120 C. yet more preferably below 110 C. still more preferably in the range of 40 to 100 C. and most preferably between 75 C. and 85 C.

In a yet more preferred embodiment the die of the foregoing embodiment has a small vertical taper or narrowing from the height of the die where the ram enters to a somewhat uniform and narrower height along the machine direction towards the die exit. Also in this preferred embodiment the shape of the die transverse to the machine direction is such that the height of the die slit is less at the center of the slit than at the edges of the slit and the support structure consists of heavy steel slabs machined to have substantially flat faces which bear against the respective die halves. The steel slabs are tensioned by a plurality of threaded connectors most preferably by multi jackbolt tensioners such as those available from Superbolt Inc. Carnegie Pa. and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 263 764 6 112 396 6 381 827 6 199 453 5 083 889 and 4 846 614.

In a yet more preferred embodiment the die of the foregoing embodiment is employed and is also provided with a plurality of at least three cooling zones in each die half as previously described. The temperatures of the various cooling zones are set to provide stable extrusion of the panel product and are individually adjusted when necessary to counter process variations which produce warp bow surface irregularities and thickness variations these adjustments preferably being made during operation of the machine.

The product produced by the inventive process is a novel product whose manufacture was not possible prior to the present invention. As indicated previously due to the difficulties of ram extrusion it had been impossible to ram extrude constant thickness panels of large width and high aspect ratio i.e. thin panels. Thus to produce thin panels thick compression molded panels were skived to produce thin sheets. However these sheets have irregular surfaces both in terms of thickness variation as well as appearance.

Panels produced by the subject invention process are characterized by a smooth glossy and uniform surface. The smoothness can be assessed easily by touch and the gloss of the surface assessed visually or by optical inspection techniques such as the standard ASTM D2457 03 and D523 89 test methods preferably at a 60 angle. Using this test methodology employing a BYK Gardner Color Guide Glass Meter supplied by BYK Gardner U.S.A. Columbia Md. and a 60 test angle average gloss measurements preferably range from 35 upwards with most panels in the range of 35 to 45. This is in contrast to skived panels which although also smooth have significantly lower gloss averaging about 24 using the same test methodology.

The uniform surface has a 3 thickness variation of less than 0.050 inch 1.25 mm more preferably within 0.030 inch 0.76 mm and yet more preferably within 0.020 inch 0.50 mm . While the surface is smooth and glossy it can further be distinguished from skived panels by the presence of shot marks substantially perpendicular to the length of the sheet in the machine direction and substantially parallel to each other. These shot marks are believed to be caused by the stationary dwell between ram extrusion cycles and the profile and height of the shot marks can be measured by standard profilometry techniques. The shot marks have a maximum height top to bottom of only several microns i.e. less than 70 m more preferably less than 25 m and importantly do not interfere with known uses of thin panel stock. Products have been produced over extended trials with shot marks measuring about 5 10 m in height. The shot marks may easily be seen by observing the panel at an oblique angle.

However the flow of UHMWPE is generally retarded somewhat at the edges of the die and may experience less retardation at the die center. The retardation at the two edges may not be the same either. The result is that the shot marks are typically somewhat wavy or undulating across the panel surfaces shot marks are on both front and back surfaces as shown at in . The generally perpendicular orientation to the machine direction is clear as is also the generally parallel orientation with respect to adjacent shot marks. In is shown a similar panel but one in which the shot marks change their respective orientation along the panel initially at being the same as in departing somewhat over portion and becoming similar again over portion . The shot marks are still substantially perpendicular to the machine direction and substantially parallel to each other.

Thus the present invention also pertains to an UHMWPE panel having a width greater than 0.6 m and characterized by generally parallel shot marks on both top and bottom surfaces. For panels whose length direction corresponds to the machine direction these shot marks are transverse to the machine direction of the panel. The surface of the panels are smooth and glossy and have a thickness tolerance as previously described. Preferred panels are from 4 mm to 10 cm in thickness more preferably less than 2 cm thick. Preferred panels have a global flatness variation of less than 0.150 inch 3.8 mm 3 with a tolerance of 0.030 inch 0.8 mm 3 and preferably a global flatness variation of less than 0.100 inch 2.5 mm with a tolerance of less than 0.024 inch 0.6 mm 3 . The sideways bow curvature of the panels without trimming is preferably within approximately the same values as the global flatness. It should be noted that these sideways bow tolerances for the panel as extruded are superior than that which can ordinarily be obtained by conventional sawing of the edge. Thus it is preferred that the subject invention panels retain their edges as produced and are not sawn.

Having generally described this invention a further understanding can be obtained by reference to certain specific examples which are provided herein for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified.

A ram extrusion machine is provided having a stainless steel die composed of two halves substantially as described herein as illustrated for example by and . The die has a length in the machine direction of 81.25 cm a width of 172 cm and a height of 96.5 cm. The bottom die half is similar to the top half but does not contain any passageways for entry of UHMWPE powder and has edges configured to mate with those of the top half. The die is vertically tapered in the machine direction from the ram entry by about 3 and the geometry of the slit is generally circular with a very long radius ca. 375 m. The hot zone of the die is maintained at 440 F. 20 F. 227 C. 11 C. and the die exit end is provided with five cooling zones on each die half extending approximately 3 inches 7.6 cm into the die in the machine direction.

The die is contained within a support structure consisting of two flat surfaced carbon steel billets measuring 68 in. 1.7 m by 15 in. 0.38 m by 22.5 in. 0.58 m which are tensioned by 5 multi jackbolt tensioners having a bolt diameter of 2 in. 5 cm . The steel billets are positioned over the die about one inch from the exit end and extending from that point toward the ram entry end of the die as illustrated in .

UHMWPE resin powder 6540 from Braskem Sao Paulo Brazil having a melt temperature of 133 C. an average particle size D50 of 190 m and an average molecular weight of 8 10g mol is introduced pneumatically into a hopper above the UHMWPE entry ports in the top die half. A flow of nitrogen is introduced into the hopper near the bottom to remove air from the resin powder. The ram is drawn back and resin powder is allowed to fill the die cavity below the hopper. The ram then enters the die and compresses the resin powder and pushes it into the vertically tapered portion of the die this resin in turn pushing the previous portion of resin powder which has now been heated to a gel towards the die exit. The ram dwells at this position for approximately 1 second and then the cycle is repeated. At the beginning of each cycle once the die is full 0.5 inch 12.5 mm of length of an UHMWPE panel of 0.375 inch 9.5 mm thickness and width of 4 feet 1.22 m exits the die. The panel is partially restrained in movement by a cloth covered back pressure device which facilitates continued contact of the cool 250 F. panel with the walls of the die. The back pressure device is constructed so as to allow for variations in back pressure across the width of the panel. The panel is taken up on a flat conveyor and the operator adjusts the cooling zone temperatures to remove warp and bow from the panel. The top and bottom cooling zone temperatures at stable flat panel production are 42 C. 56 C. 60 C. 49 C. 43 C. and 42 C. 49 C. 53 C. 44 C. 41 C. respectively. The panel exits the die at a temperature below 100 C. much lower than the crystalline melt temperature. The flat panels produced are cut to length and have a glossy flat surface with a thickness variation of less than 0.030 inch. Mold shot marks of a length equivalent to each ram stroke s production can be seen if observed carefully at a high angle of incidence but are virtually invisible when viewed head on. The panel has slightly rounded edges which are uniform from panel to panel and is of commercial quality.

The same machine and process are used as in Example 1 but the die has in addition to the vertical taper non parallel exit faces having dual side tapers and a curvilinear top section as described in . The top cooling zones are all set to 76.7 C. and the bottom zones all set to 73.9 F. Very little adjustment is required during operation. The extruded panel exits the die at approximately 79 C. A flat panel of even higher quality than Example 1 in terms of thickness variation and edge consistency is produced. The production rate is 5.8 m hour 19 feet hr or 71.4 kg hour 160 lb hr .

A commercial press molding operation is employed employing a large thick section coffin like mold. UHWMPE resin powder is introduced into the mold cavity and a close fitting top inserted into the mold. The mold and three other molds of similar size are loaded into a stack placed under a pressure of 1000 lb in 6.9 MPa and heated to above the crystalline melt temperature held at this temperature for 90 minutes and then slowly allowed to cool. Thick plaques are obtained from which 0.375 inch 0.95 cm thick panels can be produced by skiving in a separate step. Prior to skiving the production rate is 75 lbs hour 33.5 Kg hr . Following skiving a long anneal time at elevated temperature is required to reduce end curl and edge curl and internal stresses.

While embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

