---

title: Titanium foil as a structural heater element
abstract: An electrothermal heater assembly, configured to be embedded inside a component for anti-icing and/or deicing the component, includes a titanium foil configured for use as a heating element, at least one reinforcement layer adjacent the titanium foil, and an adhesive configured to bond the titanium foil to the at least one reinforcement layer. The heater assembly is configured such that the titanium foil carries a structural load within the heater assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09133714&OS=09133714&RS=09133714
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 09133714
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061101
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The following application is filed on the same date as the following co pending application SURFACE TREATMENT FOR A THIN TITANIUM FOIL by inventors John H. Vontell Charles R. Watson and Joseph J. Parkos Jr. U.S. Ser. No. 11 591 626 filed Nov. 1 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a titanium foil configured for use as a heater element. More particularly the present invention relates to a titanium foil configured as a structural heater element within a composite.

It is desirable to minimize or prevent the formation of ice on certain components of a gas turbine engine in order to avoid problems attributable to ice accumulation. There are many existing methods of removing or preventing the formation of ice on gas turbine engine components and airframe components. Among these methods is the incorporation or embedding of an electrothermal heating element into a gas turbine engine or airframe component that is susceptible to ice formation. The heating element may also be applied to a surface of the component. The heating element heats the susceptible areas of the component in order to prevent ice from forming.

The heating element may be a metallic heating element which typically converts electrical energy into heat energy. The metallic heating element is typically a part of a heater assembly that also includes at least one layer that electrically insulates the heating element. For example the heater assembly may be formed of a metallic heating element embedded into a fiber reinforced composite structure.

In many applications in which the heater assembly is embedded inside the engine or airframe component it may be desirable to minimize the amount of space that the heater assembly occupies. Moreover it may be important that the heater assembly is able to carry a high structural load within the component.

Thin metal foils may work well as the metallic heating element. However it may be difficult to design a composite structure in which the foil is not a sacrificial part within the component and is able to carry transfer a structural load. Moreover it may be difficult to achieve a durable and stable bond between the thin foil and the surrounding layers of the heater assembly so that the foil is able to transfer load within the component.

There is a need for a thin metal foil configured for use as a metallic heater element within a heater assembly such that when the heater assembly is embedded inside an engine or airframe component the metal foil is able to carry a structural load within the component.

The present invention relates to an electrothermal heater assembly configured to be embedded inside a component for anti icing and or deicing the component. The heater assembly includes a titanium foil configured for use as a heating element at least one reinforcement layer adjacent the titanium foil and an adhesive configured to bond the titanium foil to the at least one reinforcement layer. The heater assembly is configured such that the titanium foil carries a structural load within the heater assembly.

The present invention relates to a heater assembly configured to be embedded inside an engine or aircraft component. The heater assembly includes a thin titanium foil configured as a metallic heating element and capable of carrying a structural load within the heater assembly. The heater assembly may be a composite structure formed from fabric layers that surround the titanium foil. The fabric layers commonly include at least one non conductive layer that electrically isolates the titanium foil.

The heater assembly may be embedded inside any component that is susceptible to ice formation. For example the component may be an aircraft component or a gas turbine engine component such as but not limited to a vane an airfoil leading edge a front bearing of the engine a structural strut that supports the front bearing and a duct. The component may be formed of materials such as but not limited to polymer matrix composites PMC which may be reinforced with polymeric glass carbon or ceramic fibers metal matrix composites metal ceramic matrix composites CMC and carbon carbon composites.

When the heater assembly is embedded in the component the heater assembly replaces some structural elements of the component in order to maintain the dimensions of the component. In those cases the heater assembly including the metallic heating element i.e. the titanium foil accounts for a percentage of the component. This may affect the strength and the structural characteristics such as the transfer of structural loads of the component. In order for the heater assembly to be able to carry a high structural load the present invention incorporates a thin titanium foil into the heater assembly that functions as a heater but is also able to carry transfer a structural load within the heater assembly.

In the embodiment of a thickness of titanium foil is approximately 0.001 1.0 mil . A suitable range for the thickness of foil is approximately 0.0005 to 0.005 0.5 to 5 mils while a preferred range is approximately 0.001 to 0.003 . A thin foil is preferred due to limited space inside the component. Other factors which may limit the thickness of the foil include weight restrictions of the component and an overall efficiency of the foil as a heater.

In the embodiment of first and second film adhesives and are fiberglass supported bismaleimide BMI film adhesives. Other materials that may be used in adhesives and include but are not limited to polyimide polyester phenolic cyanate ester epoxy and phthalonitrile.

First and second film adhesives and may be used to attach titanium foil to at least one reinforcement layer to form a heater assembly as discussed in more detail below in reference to .

In the embodiment of titanium foil may be a configured foil meaning that foil is etched into a shape to form a discontinuous sheet prior to attaching foil to adhesive layers and . Foil may be configured using a photoetching process or a chemical milling process both of which are commonly known in the field. Titanium foil may be any type of shape. The shape typically depends upon the type of component and the area of the component that requires deicing and or anti icing since the shape of foil controls the electrical properties and heat distribution from foil .

In many cases configured foils are more delicate and fragile compared to non configured foils and may require a support layer such as support layer which may be attached to foil prior to the etching process used to configure foil . Support layer may include but is not limited to a fabric layer such as fiberglass or other suitable ceramic fiber fabrics or a plastic film such as polyimide. As shown in support layer may remain attached to foil after the etching process such that support layer resides between foil and film adhesive . Alternatively a temporary support layer may be removed from foil prior to attaching film adhesive to foil .

First and second reinforcement layers and act as electrically insulating layers for foil and may be formed from any material suitable to electrically insulate titanium foil including but not limited to any fiber reinforced structure such as epoxy bisamelimide polyimide or other suitable organic or ceramic matrices. In embodiments first and second reinforcement layers and may be made of ceramic fabric. As an alternative to fabric reinforcement layers and may include but are not limited to unidirectional tape discontinuous mat and polymeric film. An example of a suitable polymeric film may include but is not limited to polyimide.

First film adhesive is used to attach foil to first reinforcement layer and second film adhesive is used to attach foil to second reinforcement layer . In embodiments film adhesives and may be electrically insulating in addition to or as an alternative to the insulating properties of reinforcement layers and .

In alternative embodiments heater assembly may not include film adhesives and and a resin may instead be injected into heater assembly to bond foil to reinforcement layers and . After injecting the resin into heater assembly the resin may be cured so that heater assembly becomes a hardened structure. Suitable resins for heater assembly include but are not limited to epoxy bismaleimide BMI or polyimide.

Although only one reinforcement layer is shown in on each side of foil assembly it is recognized that heater assembly may include additional reinforcement layers surrounding titanium foil .

In the embodiment of composite includes four layers of ceramic fabric and two layers of carbon fabric surrounding each side of heater assembly . It is recognized that composite may include any number of layers. Composite is not limited to ceramic and carbon and may be formed from any fiber reinforced structure which may include but is not limited to epoxy bisamelimide polyimide or other suitable organic or ceramic matrices. Also it is not required that heater assembly be a center layer within composite .

Similar to heater assembly composite is commonly injected with a resin and heated to a high temperature such that the resin cures and forms a hardened structure. In embodiments heater assembly may be inserted among the other layers and prior to injecting resin into heater assembly and the resin may be inserted into composite such that heater assembly and surrounding layers and form a hardened composite structure. Types of resins that may be used include but are not limited to epoxy bismaleimide BMI or polyimide.

As stated above composite is not limited to the number of fabric layers shown in and composite may include fewer layers around heater assembly .

Titanium foil of heater assembly is configured as a structural heater that is able to carry a structural load within heater assembly which improves performance of heater assembly when it is embedded inside an engine or airframe component similar to composite of which may form the component. The ability of titanium foil to function as a structural heater within a component is based on factors such as a stiffness of foil a strength of a bond between foil and a surrounding layer and the durability of the bond over an operational life of the component.

Titanium foil is inherently stiff and has a stiffness or modulus that is comparable to other layers within composite . Thus titanium foil may be able to transfer a structural load to surrounding layers within composite while simultaneously functioning as a heater within the composite. However if foil is not sufficiently bonded to the surrounding layers the ability of foil to transfer a structural load may be inhibited. Thus it may be important to maximize the strength of the bond between foil and the surrounding layers. It also may be important that the bond attaching foil to the surrounding layers is stable enough to withstand operating conditions throughout a life of the component that heater assembly is embedded inside. As described above an adhesive film like adhesive films and of and adhesive films and of or a resin may be used for bonding foil to surrounding layers.

Other resistive metals such as copper alloys and nickel alloys may be used as a heater element however titanium or titanium alloys by comparison show improved performance as a structural heater. The thin titanium foils of the present invention may weigh less than other resistive metals. Moreover the titanium foils are able to bond strongly with adhesives suitable for use in turbine engine components that may be exposed to extremely high operating temperatures. For example preferred adhesives used in these applications include but are not limited to bismaleimide and polyimide as disclosed above.

The strength and the durability of the bond are determined in part by a surface treatment which may be used on titanium foil to remove mechanically weak oxides and other contaminants that may inhibit bonding of titanium foil with the adhesive. A preferred method for surface treating a thin titanium foil is disclosed in the co pending application entitled SURFACE TREATMENT FOR A THIN TITANIUM FOIL which is incorporated herein by reference.

In order to determine a preferred surface treatment method various samples of composites similar to composite of were assembled in which each composite included a heater assembly similar to heater assembly of . Each of the composites had a thin titanium foil which underwent a different surface treatment process. Table 1 below shows the specific surface treatment of each titanium foil for samples 1 6. A baseline sample composite was also prepared which did not contain a titanium foil.

The initial steps in the surface treatment process are two cleaning processes pre clean 1 and pre clean 2 . In pre clean 1 the titanium foil samples were either vapor blasted or soaked in a nitric acid hydrofluoric acid solution. Next in pre clean 2 all of the samples except for sample 4 were treated with a light alkaline cleaner to neutralize the acid from pre clean 1 and clean the surface of the foil. In step 3 the foil samples except for samples 4 and 6 were etched using a strong alkaline etchant such as but not limited to Turco 5578 L. The etching process in step 3 is used to prepare the foil surface for bonding by removing oils and loose oxides on the surface it is not used to change the shape of the foil. Etching commonly causes a black residue or smut to form on parts of the foil surface. Thus samples 1 and 2 were treated with nitric acid to desmut the foil. All the foil samples were then cleaned using either an ultrasonic water treatment samples 1 5 or an acetone wipe and then dried. A primer was then applied to samples 1 4 as a thin coating to stabilize the surface of the foil and preserve the surface for adhesive bonding. The primer may be any type of resin that is compatible with the composite such as but not limited to epoxy bismaleimide polyimide polyester phenolic cyanate ester and phthalonitrile.

Each of the composites in Table 1 underwent testing to determine its interlaminar shear strength. Prior to testing a specimen from each composite was exposed to conditions 1 4 outlined in Table 2 below. The intent of the conditions was to imitate various environments that a composite may likely be exposed to including atmospheric moisture.

For each of the composite samples in Table 1 above twelve test specimens three samples for each condition in Table 2 were prepared. Each specimen was cut to form a piece having a width of which then underwent a four point short beam shear SBS test using a span to depth ratio of 4 1 and a crosshead speed of 0.05 inches per minute. The test was used to determine the interlaminar shear strength of each specimen.

As shown in the baseline sample exhibited the highest values under all conditions since the baseline composite did not contain a titanium foil and thus surface preparation of the foil to ensure adequate bonding was not an issue. Sample 1 showed a decrease in SBS values for all four conditions as compared to the baseline sample. The surface treatment used on the titanium foil in sample 1 includes vapor blasting as an initial cleaning step as such this surface treatment may not be used on a configured foil without causing damage to the foil. Sample 2 had higher SBS values as compared to sample 1 for all four conditions. In sample 2 the initial cleaning step was to soak the foil in a nitric acid hydrofluoric acid solution. Sample 2 also exhibited higher SBS values under all conditions as compared to samples 3 6. The surface treatment used on sample 2 see Table 1 above is a preferred surface treatment process in order to achieve a high strength durable bond within the composite.

In the case of sample 3 the specimens for conditions 3 and 4 disbanded during humidity aging. Sample 3 exhibits the importance of the nitric acid desmut in order to remove the residue left on the foil as a result of etching. Conditions 3 and 4 of sample 6 also fell apart during humidity aging as did condition 4 of sample 5. Failure during humidity aging is significant since conditions 3 and 4 are used as a predictor of environmental durability.

In sample 4 the surface preparation of the foil did not include the steps of alkaline cleaning etching and desmutting. As shown in sample 4 exhibited a reduction in SBS values for conditions 1 4 as compared to sample 2. However for conditions 1 2 and 4 the difference in SBS values between samples 2 and 4 was minimal. Moreover in sample 4 neither condition 3 nor condition 4 failed during humidity aging in contrast to samples 3 5 and 6. The surface treatment used on sample 4 see Table 1 above is an alternative embodiment of the present invention.

Sample 5 exhibited a reduction in SBS values across conditions 1 2 and failed in humidity aging under condition 4. The results from sample 5 illustrate the importance of applying a primer to the foil in order to produce an adequate bond within the composite. Finally sample 6 exhibited low SBS values for conditions 1 and 2 and conditions 3 and 4 fell apart during humidity aging. Sample 6 illustrates that vapor blasting and an alkaline clean in the absence of an etching process does not provide a bond with adequate durability. Based on the test results illustrated in the surface treatments used for samples 2 and 4 provide the best results in terms of preparing the surface of a titanium foil to promote strong adhesive bonding.

After undergoing shear strength testing the failed test specimens were evaluated to determine whether the failure was adhesive or cohesive. Adhesive failure occurs when the failure mode is at the adhesive to foil interface. Cohesive failure refers to failure within the adhesive and it is the desired failure mode.

As illustrated in Table 3 the baseline sample was the only sample which did not exhibit adhesive failure for conditions 3 and 4 with the reason being that the baseline sample did not contain any titanium. Samples 1 2 and 4 had cohesive failure in conditions 1 and 2 whereas samples 3 5 and 6 had adhesive failure under all conditions. As stated above the surface treatment used on the foil in sample 1 may not be used on a configured foil without causing damage to the foil. Thus the data in Table 3 validates the results from . The surface treatment used on sample 2 provides the best results for preparing the titanium foil for adhesive bonding within the composite such that the titanium foil is able to function as a structural heater element when embedded inside a component. Alternatively the surface treatment used on sample 4 provides similar results to sample 2 in adequately preparing the surface of the foil for adhesive bonding.

Airfoil is a gas turbine engine component and may be for example an airfoil in a compressor. If the gas turbine engine is used in an aircraft moisture may accumulate on leading edge of airfoil and the moisture may turn into ice as the aircraft reaches higher elevations. In addition impingement of super cooled atmospheric moisture during flight may result in ice accumulation on airfoil and other turbine engine or airframe components. Heater assembly may be embedded in leading edge in order to prevent the accumulation of ice i.e. anti icing along leading edge or to remove ice i.e. deicing from leading edge . Titanium foil receives electrical energy from an external power source not shown and converts electrical power into thermal energy to heat leading edge of airfoil and melt ice or prevent ice from forming on edge .

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a heater assembly configured to be embedded inside a component. The heater assembly includes a titanium foil which may be configured or unconfigured that is capable of functioning as a structural heater element. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description not limitation. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as bases for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention. Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

