---

title: Wound healing polymeric networks
abstract: A composition includes at least one biologically active agent covalently attached to a first polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The first polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo free radical polymerization after attachment of the bioactive agent thereto. The first polymerizing molecule is preferably biocompatible. The polymerizing molecule can, for example. be dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (DOPA) or tyrosine. The composition can also include a second component synthesized by reacting at least one core molecule having a plurality of reactive hydrogen groups with at least one multi-isocyanate functional molecule to create a conjugate including terminal isocyanate groups. The conjugate molecule is reacted with a second polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The second polymerizing molecule includes a reactive hydrogen to react with the isocyanate groups of the conjugate. The second polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo the free radical polymerization after reaction with the conjugate. In several embodiments, the first polymerizing molecule and the second polymerizing molecule are the same and dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (DOPA) or tyrosine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08029774&OS=08029774&RS=08029774
owner: University of Pittsburgh
number: 08029774
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060701
---
The present application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 695 912 filed Jul. 1 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 789 372 filed Apr. 5 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant DAMD 17 02 1 0717 awarded by the US Army MRMC. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to wound healing polymeric networks matrices or gels to compositions and compounds to form wound healing polymeric networks to methods of synthesizing wound healing polymeric networks and to methods of treating wounds using wound healing polymeric networks.

The following information is provided to assist the reader to understand the invention disclosed below and the environment in which it will typically be used. The terms used herein are not intended to be limited to any particular narrow interpretation unless clearly stated otherwise in this document. References set forth herein may facilitate understanding of the present invention or the background of the present invention. The disclosure of all references cited herein are incorporated by reference.

Wound healing is a dynamic and orchestrated process that involves cellular and matrix components acting together to re establish the lost tissues. Co morbid physiological and psychological conditions and aging compromise this healing which can be ameliorated by modulating these underlying conditions with the exception of aging . Infections adversely impact wound repair through ongoing chronic inflammation and production of toxic molecules and metabolites from both the microbe and the immune response. Skin wounds are particularly prone to these infections as they are both exposed to pathogens and also harbor commensural microbes that can infect compromised tissue. Thus microbial proliferation must be controlled or prevented to enable proper healing.

The existence of a variety of wound types with varied healing modes and phases has led to the development of different types of wound healing matrices in attempts to improve upon physiological healing. Traditional wound management involves disinfection and provision of a moist environment to encourage the establishment of the best environment for the natural healing process. The use of biological sealants has been promoted primarily based on their ability to enhance coagulation in addition to their capacity to create a mechanical barrier at the site of bleeding.

In designing a material or matrix to promote wound healing one that is capable of providing adequate antimicrobial activity is desired provided that the antimicrobial substance s present in the matrix do not compromise the physiologic healing including hemostasis and immune functioning and the repair promoting physiochemical aspects of the matrix. To be beneficial the antimicrobial agent preferably exerts its effect over the relevant time scale of days without being washed out by tissue fluid flows or neutralized by serum and tissue derived factors and enzymatic activities.

With the surge of antibiotic resistance impregnating a matrix with a necessarily broad spectrum antibiotic is becoming a concern. Moreover complex molecules may form complexes with the surface of polymer and modify it further resulting in confounding diffusion and elution calculations. This also may produce novel immunological epitopes that would be recognized by the body as foreign.

Silver is a widely used nonspecific antimicrobial as it acts against a very broad spectrum of bacterial yeast and fungal species likely to contaminate wounds and body cavities. See for example Thomas S McCubbin P. A comparison of the antimicrobial effects of four silver containing dressings on three organisms. J Wound Care 2003 12 3 101 7. This action derives from the binding of the positive silver ions with the negatively charged microbial proteins preventing their replication and via attachment to sulfhydryl groups preventing their respiration and resulting in inhibiting their proliferation. See for example Holt K B Bard A J. Interaction of silver I ions with the respiratory chain of an electrochemical and scanning electrochemical microscopy study of the antimicrobial mechanism of micromolar Ag . Biochemistry 2005 44 39 13214 23 Bragg P D Rainnie D J. The effect of silver ions on the respiratory chain of . Can J Microbiol 1974 20 6 883 9 and Darouiche R O. Anti infective efficacy of silver coated medical prostheses. Clin Infect Dis 1999 29 6 1371 7. Silver also works on biofilms a critical challenge for embedded foreign bodies. See for example Chaw K C Manimaran M Tay F E. Role of silver ions in destabilization of intermolecular adhesion forces measured by atomic force microscopy in staphylococcus epidermidis biofilms. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 2005 49 12 4853 9.

Currently available products for facilitation of wound healing have met with only limited success. It thus remains desirable to develop wound healing polymeric networks compounds for forming such wound healing polymeric networks methods of synthesizing or forming such wound healing polymeric networks and methods of treating wounds using such wound healing polymeric networks.

In one aspect the present invention provides a composition including at least one biologically active agent covalently attached to a polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo free radical polymerization after attachment of the bioactive agent thereto. The polymerizing molecule is preferably biocompatible. The polymerizing molecule can for example be dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA a derivative of dihydroxyphenyl L alanine histidine a derivative of histidine lysine a derivative of lysine tryptophan a derivative of tryptophan tyrosine or a derivative of tyrosine. In several embodiment the polymerizing molecule is dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA or tyrosine.

A functional group on the biologically active molecule can for example be reacted either directly or indirectly with a functional group on the polymerizing molecule. In several embodiments the functional group on the polymerizing molecule is modified to make it reactive with the functional group on the biologically active agent. For example in the case that the polymerizing molecule is dihydroxyphenyl L alanine the dihydroxyphenyl L alanine can be reacted with N hydroxysuccinimide to create an active DOPA which can for example react with amine groups of the biologically active agent for example a protein such as collagen . The secondary amine of dihydroxyphenyl L alanine can be protected before the reaction with N hydroxysuccinimide.

In several embodiments the composition further includes a second or synthetic component synthesized by reacting at least one core molecule having a plurality of reactive hydrogen groups with at least one multi isocyanate functional molecule to create a conjugate including isocyanate groups. The conjugate molecule is reacted with a polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The polymerizing molecule includes a reactive hydrogen to react with the isocyanate groups of the conjugate. The polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo the free radical polymerization after reaction with the conjugate.

The core molecule can for example be one or more of glycerol diglycerol ascorbic acid a saccharide pentaerythritol xylitol arabitol fucitol ribitol gluconic acid glucosamine sorbitol mannitol a steroid or a biocompatible multi functional polymer. The multi isocyanate functional molecule can for example be formed from a biocompatible multi amine functional precursors. In several embodiments the multi isocyanate functional compounds is lysine di isocyanate a lysine di isocyanate derivative lysine tri isocyanate a derivative of lysine tri isocyanate or putrescine. The polymerizing molecule can for example be dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA a derivative of dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA histidine a derivative of histidine lysine a derivative of lysine tryptophan a derivative of tryptophan tyrosine or a derivative of tyrosine. In several embodiment the polymerizing molecule is dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA or tyrosine and is the same as the polymerizing molecule covalently attached to the biologically active agent.

The composition can further include an initiating component adapted to initiate free radical polymerization. The initiating component can for example include silver or a silver compound for example a source of silver ions . The initiating component can further include peroxydiphosphate. In several embodiments silver or a silver compound is present in a concentration suitable to initiate polymerization. The concentration is preferably below that substantially toxic to cells such as mammalian for example human cells. Further the concentration is preferably suitable such that the silver or silver compound functions as an antimicrobial agent. The silver or the silver compound can for example persist within a polymeric network formed from the composition in an antimicrobial level for at least one week in a wound. In several embodiments the concentration of silver or of the silver compound is in the range of approximately 5 g ml to approximately 20 g ml based upon the volume of uncured that is unpolymerized components of the composition.

Biologically active agents suitable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to at least one of a protein an organic catalyst a ribozyme an organometallic a glycoprotein a glycosaminoglycan a peptide a polyamine a polyamino acid an antibody a nucleic acid a steroidal molecule an antibiotic an antiviral an antimycotic an anticancer agent an analgesic agent an antirejection agent an immunosuppressant a cytokine a carbohydrate an oleophobic a lipid extracellular matrix an individual component of extracellular matrix a growth factor a hemostatic agent a virus a vireno a virus vector or a prion.

In several embodiments the biologically active agent includes extracellular matrix or a component of extracellular matrix. The biologically active agent can also include a hemostatic surface. For example the biologically active agent can include collagen fibrin or plasmin.

In several embodiments the biologically active agent include a growth factor including for example EGF TGFa PDGF VEGF IGF 1 FGF HGF KGF TGFb a CXCR3 ligand IL 10 or IL 4.

The biologically active agent can include a hemostatic agent such as a small molecule hemostatic agent for example ATP a derivative of ATP epinephrine or a derivative of epinephrine .

In several embodiments the biologically active agent includes an agent selected to promote at least one of cell adhesion cell proliferation or cell migration. The biologically active agent can for example include sites for binding of at least one of beta1 or beta3 integrins.

The biologically active agent can also include an analgesic agent. The analgesic agent can for example be a topical anesthetic. The biologically active agent can also include an antimicrobial agent. The antimicrobial agent can for example be a macrolide a topoisomerase inhibitors or a cephalosporin.

The compositions of the present invention can for example also include a free biologically active agent. As used herein the term free biologically active agent refers to a biologically active agent that is not chemically bonded within the matrix created by the polymerized compositions of the present invention but is for example physically entrapped therein or surrounded thereby. Such free biologically active agent can be release from the matrix over time.

In another aspect the present invention provides a method of treating a wound including the steps of placing a composition in contact with the wound wherein the composition includes at least one biologically active agent covalently attached to a polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization the polymerizing molecule retaining the ability to undergo free radical polymerization after attachment of the bioactive agent thereto and initiating polymerization.

In another aspect the present invention provides a composition including a first component comprising at least one biologically active agent covalently attached to a first polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The first polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo free radical polymerization after attachment of the bioactive agent thereto. The composition also includes a second component synthesized by reacting at least one core molecule having a plurality of reactive hydrogen groups with at least one multi isocyanate functional molecule to create a conjugate including terminal isocyanate groups. The conjugate molecule is reacted with a second polymerizing molecule that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization. The second polymerizing molecule includes a reactive hydrogen to react with the isocyanate groups of the conjugate. The second polymerizing molecule retains the ability to undergo the free radical polymerization after reaction with the conjugate. In several embodiments the first polymerizing molecule and the second polymerizing molecule are the same and are dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA or tyrosine.

The present invention along with the attributes and attendant advantages thereof will best be appreciated and understood in view of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A material for use as a wound healing matrix preferably exhibits for example several or more of the following desirable characteristics the material is liquid prior to use or polymerization solidifies in a controllable time frame when applied to wound is nonirritating locally is nontoxic systematically in the amount required to achieve an effective wound closure exhibits hemostatic properties alleviates pain has appropriate flexibility elastomeric and or is biodegradable so that the material does not disturb wound healing.

As used herein the term biodegradable refers generally to the ability of the material to be broken down especially into innocuous degradation products over time in the environment of use that is within the body wound . As used herein the term biocompatible refers generally to compatibility with living tissue or a living system. In that regard the precured liquid components the polymer networks and the degradation products of the present invention are preferably biocompatible substantially nontoxic and or substantially non injurious to the living tissue or living system in the amounts required over the period of contact exposure. Moreover such materials preferably do not cause a substantial immunological reaction or rejection in the amounts required over the period of contact exposure. As used herein the term nontoxic generally refers to substances which upon ingestion inhalation or absorption through the skin by a human or animal do not cause either acutely or chronically damage to living tissue impairment of the central nervous system severe illness or death. Preferably the term nontoxic as used herein is understood in a relative sense and includes for example substances that have been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration FDA for administration to humans or in keeping with established regulatory criteria and practice are susceptible to approval by the FDA for administration to humans. In addition to FDA approval or approvability nontoxicity of compounds suitable for use in the present invention can generally be evidenced by a high LD50 as determined in animal studies for example rat studies . Preferably a nontoxic compound has an LD50 of over 1000 mg kg and more preferably has an LD50 of over 1500 mg kg and even more preferably has an LD50 of over 2000 mg kg.

With the above considerations we have developed wound healing matrices which are space forming biocompatible and degradable over for example a two to three week long period. The terms polymeric network matrix and gel are used interchangeably herein and refer to a polymer system for example a crosslinked polymeric network . These polymers were produced in a two part synthetic scheme with gelation preferably being catalyzed by ionic silver Ag with peroxydiphosphate. This mode of catalysis is preferred as silver which distributes through the matrix passively is widely used as an antimicrobial. In that regard the self curing polymers of the present invention could represent foreign bodies which may form nidi for infection. Further the distribution of silver through the polymer matrix operates to limit the growth of bacteria and yeast that commonly infect skin wounds delaying the healing process. The wound healing matrices of the present invention are biocompatible to living tissues and exhibit hemostatic properties.

In several embodiments crosslinked polymer networks matrices or gels of the present invention were formed from a synthetic component comprising a prepolymer component formed from one or more multi functional core molecules. Functional groups of the core molecule s are reacted with a first functional group of one or more multifunctional linker or spacer molecules. A second functional group of the linker molecule is reacted with a functional group of one or more molecules that can undergo a polymerization for example a free radical polymerization under relatively benign condition. Preferably the linker molecule is chosen so that biodegradable covalent bonds are formed between the linker molecule and the core molecule and between the linker molecule and the polymerizing molecule. The degradation products generally the core molecule or a derivative thereof the linker molecule or a derivative thereof and the polymerizing molecule or a derivative thereof are biocompatible.

The polymerizing molecule must retain the ability to polymerize after reaction with the linker molecule. In general the polymerizing molecules of the present invention include one or more functional groups suitable to undergo a free radical polymerization as described herein for example a hydroxyphenyl group as present in DOPA and tyrosine . The polymerizing molecules also includes one or more functional groups suitable to effect covalent attachment either directly or indirectly through one or more chemical moieties of for example a linker molecule thereto or covalent attachment of a biologically active components thereto.

In several embodiments of the present invention one or more multi isocyanate functional molecules derived from one or more biocompatible multi amine functional precursors was used as the linker molecule s . Aliphatic multi isocyanate functional molecules are preferred. In several embodiments of the present invention the multi amine functional precursor compounds of the multi isocyanate functional compounds are biocompatible amino acids or biocompatible derivatives of an amino acids. For example the multi amine functional precursor compound can be lysine. The multi isocyanate functional compounds can for example include lysine di isocyanate or lysine di isocyanate derivatives for example an alkyl ester of lysine diisocyanate such as the methyl ester or the ethyl ester . The multi isocyanate functional compounds can also include lysine tri isocyanate or a derivative of lysine tri isocyanate. Certain dipeptides two amino acids linked by an amide linkage can also be used. For example lysine can be combined in a dipeptide with another amino acid for example lysine valine lysine glysine etc. . Another example of a multi amine functional compound suitable for use in the present invention is putrescine diamino butane . In several representative studies of the present invention lysine diisocyanate was used as the linker molecule.

In the case that one or more multi isocyanate compounds are used as the linker molecule s the core molecule s should include reactive hydrogen functional groups for example hydroxy groups primary amine groups secondary amine groups or thiol groups . Once again the core molecule is preferably biocompatible. Examples of suitable core molecules include but are not limited to glycerol diglycerol ascorbic acid a saccharide for example. glucose lactose etc. pentaerythritol xylitol arabitol fucitol ribitol gluconic acid glucosamine sorbitol mannitol sugar alcohols generally a steroid and biocompatible multi functional polymers for example multi hydroxy functional polyethylene glycol or PEG a polyamino acid a polyether or a polyester . Preferably the core molecule the linker molecule and the polymerizing molecule are selected so that the synthetic components is liquid or flowable prior to curing polymerization.

In a number of studies of the present invention polyethylene glycol glycerol ascorbic acid glucose and lactose were used as core molecules. The functionality of the core material determines the functionality of the resulting network after curing as illustrated for example in which illustrates a DOPA containing prepolymer DLG formed from a trifunctional glycerol core molecule. In general the core molecule was reacted with at least a stoichiometric amount NCO OH 2 1 and preferably with an excess of lysine diisocyanate capping the reactive hydrogen groups hydroxyl groups in the studied examples creating in the process a resorbable degradable urethane link and terminating the arms of the core with a reactive isocyanate group. The core lysine conjugate is reacted with for example a polymerizable molecule such as L DOPA creating a multi functional DOPA terminated precursor. Dialysis was used to purify the product. Each of the synthetic component precursors has the general formula Core Lys DOPA wherein x is the functionality of the core molecule.

In general other preferably biocompatible compounds such as amino acids including but not limited to histidine lysine tryptophan and tyrosine that can form crosslinks via free radical chemistry can be substituted for or potentially used in connection with L DOPA.

A two step reaction scheme for synthesis of representative DOPA containing prepolymers of the present invention is illustrated for example in for a DOPA containing prepolymer DLL formed from lactose. As described above in connection with a glycerol core molecule in the first step the hydroxyl groups from lactose were capped using LDI molecular ratio was LDI lactose 8 1 NCO OH 2 1 to produce an isocyanate terminated prepolymer. Upon 50 consumption of the isocyanate groups as determined using FT IR spectroscopy using the height of the isocyanate peak at 2259 cmas a guide the second reaction step was started by the addition of L DOPA. In general the same process was used for synthesis of DLG and a DOPA containing prepolymer DLP formed using di hydroxy functional PEG as the core molecule. Prepolymer synthesis was confirmed by the appearance of a strong absorption band at approximately 1714 cm in the IR attributable to the formation of the urethane linkage NHCOO with the accompanying complete disappearance of the isocyanate group N C O peak at 2259 cm . H NMR spectrum of the product at first step Lactose LDI showed that all hydroxyl groups of lactose has reacted with LDI 1.39 16H 1.64 16H 1.75 16H 3.07 8H 3.41 24H 3.71 16H 3.80 1H 4.11 4H 4.21 8 H 4.54 5H 6.05 2H 6.25 1H 6.54 1H 7.75 8H . The reaction mixture obtained by this two step synthesis was dialyzed and dried. H NMR spectrum of the final product Lactose LDI DOPA showed that DOPA has combined with the pre polymer 1.22 16H 1.30 16H 1.50 16H 2.96 16H 3.28 16H 3.46 24H 3.52 1H 3.91 4H 4.01 8H 4.10 3H 4.21 8H 5.68 6H 5.71 2H 5.80 1H 6.10 16H 6.32 8 H 6.50 16H 6.70 1H 7.60 8H 8.66 8H . Similar results were observed in PEG LDI DOPA and Glycerol LDI DOPA . Mass spectrum of PEG LDI DOPA showed major fragment of M H Na at m z 437.2 fragment of M H at m z 198.1 fragment of M at m z 1232.6 fragment of MDLP 4H at m z 1236.4 fragment of M H M HO at m z 1054.5. The fragments observed at m z 840.2 and m z 645.4 revealed the presence of M 2MA 2H and M LDI H HO Although the synthesis of the prepolymer using this methodology can be relatively slow enhancement of the rate via the addition of a typical catalyst dibutyl tin dilaurate for example would introduce potential downstream problems as a result of tin contamination. Further any residual free isocyanate following completion of the reaction was hydrolyzed to amine during the extensive dialysis.

The synthetic component precursors of the present invention provide very desirable physiochemical properties for use in a wound healing matrix in that they are liquid prior to use polymerization and solidify in a controllable time frame upon application to a wound. Moreover the networks matrices or gels formed therefrom are nontoxic and biocompatible locally and systemically . Further the gels degrade into the biocompatible building blocks thereof for example the core molecule s lysine the multi amino functional precursor of the multi isocyanate and DOPA in a desirable period of time. However as described further below wound healing matrices formed solely from synthetic component precursors of the present invention can exhibit certain characteristics that can inhibit healing. For example cell proliferation can be inhibited by such wound healing matrices. The present inventors have discovered that hybrid wound healing matrices formed for example from the synthetic component precursors of the present invention and a biological component that comprises a biologically active agent covalently attached to a polymerizing molecule for example that is adapted to undergo a free radical polymerization and retains the ability to undergo free radical polymerization after attachment of the bioactive agent thereto provide good wound healing matrices.

Certain physiochemical characteristics of the wound healing matrices for example precure liquid gel viscosity stiffness or conversely elasticity cure time degradation time and rate of diffusion of certain elements from the wound healing matrices of the present invention can be controlled by appropriate design of the synthetic components of the wound healing matrices of the present invention. For example increasing functionality of the core molecules for example as defined by decreasing equivalent weight thereof molecular weight divided by functionality results in an increase in precure viscosity an increase in stiffness of the resulting gel a decrease in cure time an increase in degradation time and a decrease in rate of diffusion of certain components for example silver from the resulting gel.

A number of aspects of the present invention are illustrated through the discussion of a number of representative wound healing matrices of the present invention. For example matrices formed from synthetic component precursors synthesized from lysine DOPA and the core molecules glycerol lactose and PEG are characterized. Further the effects of incorporating one or more biological components such as extra cellular matrix or individual components thereof for example collagen into the wound healing matrices of the present invention are illustrated.

One goal in designing the wound healing matrices of the present invention was to generate a polymer using molecules that could double as functional components of the matrix. Gupta has previously reported that an efficient redox initiating system for rapid free radical polymerization at mild temperatures was formed from Ag and acid peroxydiphosphate in aqueous media. Gupta K C. Kinetics of radical polymerization of N vinylpyrrolidone by peroxydiphosphate Ag system. Appl Polym Sci 1994 53 71 78. This redox initiation system is attractive as silver is used widely as an antimicrobial agent. In reacting DOPA with the core molecule LDI conjugate to form the prepolymer unprotected DOPA was used as the rate of reaction of the catechol side chain of DOPA is much slower than the rate or reaction of the amine group. Silver nitrate and potassium peroxydiphosphate were used as a redox couple to initiate polymerization of the prepolymers in the studies of the present invention. Without limitation to any mechanism cross linking pathways for the DOPA containing compounds are illustrated in . To investigate the effect of the initiators on the polymerization various concentrations of silver nitrate and potassium peroxydiphosphate in 10 l aliquots were added to 1 ml of the DLL pre polymer solution. As illustrated in curing time exhibited a minimum as both the amount of silver and the amount of peroxydiphosphate were increased. At optimal levels of both peroxydiphosphate and silver the cure time of the DLL pre polymer could be reduced to approximately 10 seconds.

The structure of the pre polymer also affected the cure time. As can be seen in when mixtures of DLL lactose based DLG glycerol based and DLP PEG based pre polymer were employed cure time increased as the average functionality of the mixture decreased.

To be applicable as a wound healing matrix the cured polymer preferably remains intact over a number of days. Polymer degradation was tested in vitro by placing 100 mg of polymer into 1 ml of phosphate buffer solution at 37 C. and changing the buffer daily. The rate of degradation was monitored by measuring the amount of DOPA released from the polymer gel as a function of time. As a 1 2 benzenediol DOPA exhibits a maximum UV absorbance in aqueous solution at approximately 280 nm see . Since lysine and core molecules such as lactose and PEG do not absorb significantly at this wavelength the concentration of DOPA was determined by UV absorbance at 280 nm. The standard curve of DOPA is shown in .

Degradation testing indicated that the DOPA containing polymers of the present invention were degraded over a period of approximately three weeks. Further as shown in using gels formed from mixtures of lactose and polyethylene glycol based prepolymers the time required to achieve a certain extent of degradation increased as the functionality of the network increased. We measured the pH of the PBS containing 100 mg ml polymer over a period of 21 days the degradation products of the DOPA containing polymers PEG gel and Lactose gel had no significant effect on the pH of polymer degradation solution at physiological temperature tested. These data indicate that a functional polymer can be generated from these materials.

Polymer gels of the present invention such as PEG or lactose containing polymer gels exhibited hydrophilic characteristics. As a consequence the gels were observed to swell when placed in phosphate buffer solution at 37 C. As seen in the amount of uptake of water increased for the initial 30 minutes after which it attained its saturation point. This result was to a degree reflective of drug release capabilities of a wound matrix. In the change in diameter was also recorded to better understand the flexible nature of the polymer gels to its maximum extent. PEG gel exhibited a more hydrophilic character than Lactose gel.

As the polymeric networks matrices or gels of the present invention are to be placed in direct contact with the structural cells of skin fibroblasts and keratinocytes they are preferably nontoxic to such cells. Despite the Ag being broadly microbicidal these gels did not compromise either the viability or growth of the fibroblasts see or keratinocytes see . This result was observed both for gelated polymers SG solid gel and uncured components thereof in which the catalysts were omitted which are sometimes referred to herein as LG or liquid gels .

Wound healing further requires active migration of the structural cells into the defect and in the case of a wound network matrix or gel into the gel to replace the wound healing matrix. Gels formed from lactose LysDOPA or DLL and PEG LysDOPA or DLP prepolymers were found to limit the movement of both fibroblasts and keratinocytes see . This limitation was noted with both gelated and liquid pre cured gels suggesting that multiple factors adversely affected cell movement. The limitation was confirmed by examining cell migration in the face of individual components and finding that lactose L DOPA and LDI all limited cell movement see .

In the present invention the adverse impact on cell function was ameliorated or corrected by addition of a biologically active agent or bioactive agent via a biological component as described above to the synthetic component polymeric network to produce a hybrid polymeric network Without limitation to any mechanism we hypothesized the limiting effect on cell migration was as likely to be physiochemical as molecular and thus not be avoided by simple component replacement approaches.

In several embodiments of the present invention the protein collagen was covalently incorporated into the wound healing polymer matrices of the present invention. Fibrillar collagen is a component of skin extracellular matrix. Collagen is used clinically and is amenable to industrial production parameters. Collagen is important for cell attachment and proliferation. It is involved in a number of biological events including organogenesis in early development and wound healing. The first phase of wound healing is hemostasis or the stoppage of bleeding. Collagen is an efficient hemostatic agent because it allows platelets adhesion and aggregation as well as the release of soluble clotting factors. Collagen either alone or in combination with other materials is also frequently used in tissue engineering applications such as vascular prostheses and artificial organs.

In several studies it was demonstrated that covalent incorporation of collagen I fibers in the PEG gel compensated for the migration inhibition see described above resulting in movement statistically not different from that in the absence of any gel.

In several embodiments collagen was covalently incorporated into the polymer networks of the present invention by first covalently attaching or conjugating collagen with DOPA and then curing such DOPA collagen polymers as described above. Two different schemes were used to synthesize two different types of DOPA collagen polymers. In a first synthetic scheme illustrated in a DOPA and collagen only conjugate was synthesized. In this reaction scheme the amine group in DOPA was first protected using trifluoroacetate. The protected DOPA was then reacted with N hydroxysuccine to synthesize an active DOPA as illustrated in . The active DOPA was then reacted with collagen as illustrated in to synthesize a DOPA rich collagen. illustrates cross linking pathways for such DOPA containing collagen. The protected amine of the DOPA can be unprotected using techniques known in the chemical arts or remain protected before polymerization.

As illustrated in in a second synthetic scheme a prepolymer is formed using for example LDI and a core molecule such as PEG. DOPA can for example be reacted with an LDI PEG LDI prepolymer to get DOPA LDI PEG LDI DOPA prepolymer. The DOPA containing prepolymer can then be reacted with N hydroxysuccine and collagen as described above. As the amine group of DOPA is reacted with the LDI PEG LDI prepolymer there is no need to deprotect the amine group as described above.

In several studies because of the high cost of commercial soluble collagen and the poor reactivity of insoluble collagen we isolated and purified type I collagen from rat skin. Such isolated rat skin collagen showed four major peaks matching the standard collagen sample obtained from Sigma on carboxymethyl CM cellulose chromatography. Amino acid analysis indicated that the number of glycyl residues in each chain is highly conserved at approximately one third of the total amino acid residues data not shown . SDS PAGE showed characteristic bands of type I collagen namely 1 I 2 I 11 I 12 I and I . These results indicated type I collagen had been successfully isolated and purified from rat skin.

The structure of activated DOPA as synthesized in was confirmed by electrospray mass spectrometry. Tandem mass spectrometric analysis of m z peak 391 M H gave daughter ion peaks consistent with the expected fragmentation pattern of this compound.

Activated DOPA was chosen as the coupling agent because it contained one N hydroxysuccinimide which was able to react specifically with primary amines present on the collagen as illustrated in . The link belts represented the triple helical domains of collagen and the structure detail of modified collagen and shown in . Typically other reactions of this type are completed at pH 9 wherein greater substitution can occur. However in the studies of the present invention the reaction was performed in PBS buffer pH 5 at room temperature to prevent the spontaneous fibrillogenesis of collagen that can occur at neutral pH. Excess activated DOPA was removed from the reaction mixture by dialysis. Amino acid analysis indicated that 76 nmol DOPA has combined with 5 mg of collagen. Larger molecular weight bands of proteins were found in the sample of collagen modified with DOPA compared to untreated collagen.

DOPA containing pre polymer for reaction with DOPA containing collagen was synthesized in a two step reaction using PEG as the core molecule as described above. As also described above silver nitrate and potassium peroxydiphosphate were used to initiate polymerization of the prepolymers. for example illustrate cross linking pathways for the DOPA containing compounds.

Concentration of DOPA modified collagen affected the gel cure time as illustrated in Cure time increased as the ratio of DOPA collagen to DLP pre polymer increased. Without limitation to any mechanism an explanation is that the concentration of DOPA collagen solution 5 mg ml was much lower than that of DLP pre polymer 0.3 g ml . The cure time of DOPA collagen gel was shorter than that of collagen gel without DOPA treatment.

Collagen was stained by Sirius red in the DOPA collagen gel and DLP DOPA collagen gel. As expected gel made of DLP polymer only did not become stained.

DLP DOPA collagen gel was also demonstrated to be degradable. Collagen fiber remained when the gel degraded. Among the other degradation products were lysine PEG DOPA silver and phosphate. DLP DOPA collagen gel degraded more slowly than the gel made of DLP polymer only as illustrated in .

Fibroblast is the main cell type of the dermal layer. Proliferation of human skin fibroblasts was enhanced when grown on the collagen containing gel as compared to growth on a tissue culture plate. A similar result was found in DLP DOPA collagen gel as illustrated in . MTT results indicate that fibroblast grown on DOPA containing polymer gel showed similar viability to that grown on a tissue culture plate p 0.05 . Cell viability increased on collagen gel DOPA conjugated collagen or collagen DLP polymer p

We noted that gels could be formed at all ratios of collagen biological component synthetic component although the curing time increased significantly as the amount of collagen increased. Without limitation to any mechanism this effect is likely a result of concentration rather than any inherent limitations of the derivatized collagen. Because collagen is difficult to dissolve in buffer a more dilute solution as compared to the synthetic must be employed meaning that the concentration of reactive end groups is substantially smaller where collagen is concerned. Given that the crosslinking reaction is at least first order in reactive group concentration it is understandable that the gel time increases as the collagen fraction increases. In buffer in vitro only the synthetic portion of the polymer degrades leaving behind a primarily collagen skeleton after 14 days. Not surprisingly we have found that fibroblasts increasingly thrive as the collagen fraction in the gel increases. These gels not only did not retard fibroblast and keratinocyte motility and proliferation but actually promoted it.

Other biologically active agents are readily incorporated into the polymer matrices of the present invention. For example various cell growth factors can be incorporated. Examples of growth factors include EGF TGFalpha or TGFa PDGF VEGF FGFs IGF 1 HGF KGF TGFbeta 1 2 3 or TGFb CXCR3 ligands CXCL9 CXCL10 CXCL11 IL 10 and IL 4. As illustrated in growth factors can readily be covalently incorporated into the polymers of the present invention by for example reaction of amine groups thereof with active DOPA either alone or conjugated with for example an LDI containing material .

As used herein the terms biologically active or bioactive refers generally to an agent a molecule or a compound that affects biological or chemical events in a host. Biologically active or bioactive agents may be synthetic molecules biomolecules or multimolecular entities and include but are not limited to proteins including but not limited to collagen fibrin fibrinogen fibronectin entactin tenascin and enzymes including but not limited to MMPs TIMPs proteinases phospholipases plasmin plasminogen lipases and lysyl oxidase a crosslinking agent for collagen organic catalysts ribozymes organometallics glycoproteins for example proteoglycan glycosaminoglycans for example hyaluronic acid or HA peptides polyamines polyamino acids antibodies nucleic acids steroidal molecules antibiotics antivirals antimycotics anticancer agents analgesic agents antirejection agents immunosuppressants cytokines carbohydrates oleophobics lipids extracellular matrix and or its individual components such as collagen etc. growth factors hemostatic agents including for example small molecules such as ATP and epinephrine and derivatives thereof pharmaceuticals chemotherapeutics and therapeutics. Cells and non cellular biological entities such as viruses virenos virus vectors and prions can also be bioactive agents.

In general the wound healing networks matrices or gels of the present invention include a bio compatible polymer backbone which for example provides stiffness and flexibility to the gel. The wound healing matrix should be sufficiently flexible or compliant to deform with the surrounding deformation of tissue during movement and compression. However the healing matrix should also be sufficiently stiff to support cell migration and proliferation. For example the modulus can be in the range of approximately 10 to approximately 60 Pa. Compression of matrices and gels often depends on hydration which is modulated not only by the polymer backbone but also by various biological components such as HA and proteoglycans that can be incorporated into the wound healing matrices of the present invention.

Certain preferred bioactive agents for incorporation into the wound healing matrices of the present invention include but are not limited to those beneficial for hemostasis adhesion of fibroblasts epithelial cells and endothelial cells the latter for angiogenesis analgesia cell survival and proliferation and antimicrobial function. Hemostatic agents include matrix components including but not limited to collagen fibronectin fibrin plasmin plasminogen and small molecules such as epinephrine and ATP. Adhesion molecules can for example include sites for binding of the beta1 and beta3 integrin types prevalent on adherent cells examples include but are not limited to collagen fibronectin collagen and their small peptide derivatives of RGD containing and synergistic sites. These adhesion promoting molecules will also provide for cell migration and invasion into the gel which is important for repair replacement and angiogenesis. Analgesia can be provided by incorporating known therapeutic analgesics such as those in the lidocaine family as described below . Cell survival and proliferation can for example be controlled by incorporated growth factors and cytokines including for example VEGF EGF TGFa FGFs all of which are angiogenic TGFb which is chemotactic and IGF and PDGF for survival signals . Further in addition to the antimicrobial effects of the initiating agent silver other antimicrobials can be incorporated to prevent foreign body colonization. All classes of antimicrobials can be incorporated. Broad spectrum antimicrobials such as macrolides topoisomerase inhibitors and cephalosporins can be preferred.

Biologically active agents incorporated into the wound healing matrices of the present invention preferably maintain their biologically activity while covalently bonded within the wound healing matrix and or after degradation of the matrix. The present inventors have generally found that biologically active agents retain their biological activity after covalent incorporation under the relatively benign conditions of the reactions of the present invention.

Biologically active agents with reactive functionalities such as an amine group can readily be reacted with for example active DOPA for covalent incorporation. Likewise biologically active agents with at least one active hydrogen can readily be reacted with an isocyanate group such as present in LDI. Once again examples of chemical moieties with an active hydrogen include primary and secondary amine groups hydroxyl groups and thiol groups.

For example in addition to incorporation of collagen into the wound healing matrices of the present invention a liquid form of extracellular matrix produced from porcine urinary bladders was also incorporated in other wound healing matrices of the present invention. In those studies porcine urinary bladders were harvested from pigs immediately following euthanasia. Connective tissue and adipose tissue were removed from the serosal surface and any residual urine was removed by repeated washes with tap water. The tunica serosa tunica muscularis externa and the tunica submucosa were mechanically removed and the luminal urothelial cells of the basement membrane were dissociated by soaking in 1.0 N saline solution yielding a biomaterial composed of the basement membrane plus the subjacent tunica propria. This bi laminate structure was referred to as urinary bladder matrix or UBM. UBM sheets were disinfected for two hours on a shaker in a solution containing 0.1 v v peracetic acid 4 v v ethanol and 95.9 v v sterile water. The peracetic acid residue was removed by washing with sterile phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 twice for 15 minutes each and twice for 15 minutes each with sterile water. UBM sheets were subsequently lyophilized and powdered. One gram of lyophilized UBM powder and 100 mg of pepsin were both mixed in 100 mL of 0.01 M HCL. The solution was kept at a constant stir for 48 hrs at room temperature 25 C . After pepsin digestion the digest was aliquoted and stored at 20 C until use or at 4 C after initial thawing.

The liquid extracellular matrix was conjugated with L DOPA using the same procedure as described above for collagen. This conjugate was then mixed with synthetic component materials a DOPA terminal PEG lactose blend in varying proportions. Cure was again initiated using potassium peroxydiphosphate and silver. Cure results are illustrated in . Much faster curing than for collagen possibly as a result of the presence of the lactose precursor which exhibits a functionality of 8 and synergy between the extracellular matrix and the synthetic component such that mixtures of the two cured faster than either alone was observed. At an optimal concentrations of extracellular matrix and synthetic cure was complete in less than 10 seconds.

Further illustrates reaction of the secondary amine group of lidocaine with an isocyanate functionality of LDI modified PEG in which the analgesic or anesthetic lidocaine was incorporated into a prepolymer of the present invention.

Biologically active agents and other agents including for example those without reactive groups for covalent incorporation can also be noncovalently incorporated into the polymer matrices of the present invention from which they can for example diffuse to provide desired effects. For example the antimicrobial effects of silver incorporated into the polymeric wound healing matrices of the present invention are described above and further described below.

An anesthetic such as one of the lidocaine topical anesthetic family can also be noncovlently incorporated into the polymer matrix. Such physical incorporation wherein the agent is entrapped within the matrix during gelation can result in quicker release from the matrix than would be the case in covalent incorporation. Traumatic wounds are commonly painful and limit functionality beyond the physiologic extent of the wound. Narcotic analgesics relieve pain by acting centrally on the nervous system. Although effective in pain control they may alter one s sensorium resulting in reduced effectiveness for example on the battlefield . Addition of a topically effective local anesthetic molecule provides for a reduction in pain at the wound site without the systemic side effects. By using controlled release technique s and long acting anesthetic agents pain can be lessened for days.

Members of the lidocaine family of topical anesthetics are FDA approved well tolerated and chemically stable small molecules. Initial analgesia can for example be designed to occur within 15 minutes and last for 12 24 hours. The anesthetic agent can be selected based on length of action coupled with diffusion from the gel solution. For example if the diffusion rate from the gel provides for 24 hour slow release then one would choose an agent which is short acting. However if most of the anesthetic is delivered from the gel within the first few hours one would incorporate a long acting molecule.

As the gels of the present invention are designed to be placed in wound fields in which bleeding occurs hemostasis is preferably enabled. The PT aPTT and clotting time of human blood were within the normal range in the presence of the solid PEG and Lactose gels without collagen as illustrated in B and C respectively. As the gel will be introduced into the wound in the pre gelated liquid or flowable form the gels were also tested in liquid pre cured form. While the liquid pre cured PEG gel demonstrated slightly elongated hemostatic parameters these were not statistically different from the dilutional effect of a 25 volume addition no tx LG and were thus considered not a concern. However the liquid pre cured Lactose gel compromised all three hemostatic responses beyond the dilutional effect. The detrimental effectx of the lactose gel can likely be ameliorated or corrected via incorporation of a biological components that includes a hemostatic agent for example collagen .

The antimicrobial aspects of the PEG and lactose gels were studied as models to determine the effects of incorporation of silver into the polymer matrices of the present invention. Despite the well documented antimicrobial effects of silver the question of whether Ag would be released from the gel to function as an antimicrobial had to be demonstrated as did its relative non toxicity to the resident skin cells. It was found that both lactose and PEG polymer discs demonstrated inhibition of the growth of and all of other test organisms as set forth Table 1. The PEG gel presented larger zones of inhibition with one exception. However both gels provided for greater inhibition than the Ag impregnated filter paper control.

In the studies of Table 1 zones of inhibition in mm were obtained with control and gels of either type as determined by the Disc Diffusion method. The microorganisms were streaked on individual blood agar plates. The PEG containing gel included PEG LDI DOPA Ag and peroxydiphosphate as described above The lactose containing gel included Lactose LDI DOPA Ag and peroxydiphosphate as described above. Plugs for each gel type had silver concentration of 3.3 microgram a diameter of 2 cm and a thickness of 1 mm. The control consisted of filter paper disc with a diameter of 1.25 cm and thickness of 1 mm and included 1 AgNo.

To determine the nature of the inhibition we assessed microbicidal and static capacities as accomplished by one to three gel discs. The sensitivities of the agents varied as set forth in Table 2. A 3 log reduction in microbe number considering its initial count was taken as bactericidal activity. For all aerobic organisms significant antimicrobial activity was seen in the first 24 hours with both gels. Both the gels displayed a concentration dependant bactericidal action with and with more than 1 gel disc and bacteriostatic effect with 1 gel disc. With a time dependant antimicrobial activity was seen. All gram positive bacteria had similar time dependant kinetics. With a two log reduction at 24 hours was seen when challenged with both gels. and diphtheroids were similar in behaviour considering except when challenged with three gel discs of either type where in a 3 log reduction was seen. With the effect was found similar as with gram positive bacteria. With the anaerobes a time dependant antimicrobial activity was seen at 48 hours with both the gels.

In Table 2 decrements in colony count upon challenge by the gels are set forth. Target microorganisms were seeded at 10colony forming units per ml. Parallel tubes were seeded with one to three gels. At 24 and 48 hours the bacterial counts concentrations in CFU ml were determined. Anaerobic was counted only at 48 hours considering their normal growth patterns. Placement of a control tube having microorganisms at 10at 0 hour gave non log growth counts at 24 and 48 hours for aerobes and 48 hours for anaerobes. The composition of both gels were the same as described in connection with Table 1.

Continued presence of Ag is preferred to keep a wound bed uninfected over time while retention in the gel is preferred to prevent a foreign body nidus of infection. Ag was detected in the media increasingly with time as illustrated in . The Ag rapidly leaves the PEG gel with 57 being detected in the media in 24 hours. This increased to 68 at day 4 and 80 by day 10. Leaching from the lactose gel was less than PEG gel with only 44 after one day increasing to 58 at 4 days and 71 at 10 days.

As can be seen Ag dissemination from the gels appears to persist for days. When assessed directly we found that the second day saw 28 of silver leave PEG gels and 23 of Lactose gels respectively see . This dropped subsequently but was still evident on day 4 with 12 and 7 leaving respectively. The greater leaching from gels placed in fresh media would be consistent with passive diffusion being the driving force of Ag distribution.

Silver ions thus serve the dual functions of catalyzing gelation and providing antimicrobial activity against a broad spectrum of wound contaminating agents. The incorporation of silver within the pre polymer allows for extended leaching subsequent to gelation of the polymer with this diffusion presenting the silver akin to current antimicrobial application during surgical interventions. The silver per se presented no adverse impact on cell migration or proliferation. The multifunctional property of silver allows for a simplified polymer that is biocompatible in vitro while being antimicrobial.

In testing the effect of the silver concentration on cell culture we found that certain concentrations of the silver nitrate exert cytotoxic effects on fibroblasts and endothelial cells which are directly related to the wound healing process. The result indicated that silver ions greatly inhibited fibroblasts proliferation and prolonged AgNOexpose produced Ag dependent cell loss. If human fibroblasts were cultured in a medium with 3 g ml of silver nitrate or higher 10 of dead cells were found. The cells cultured in a medium with polymer gel cured by the same concentration of the silver nitrate showed more cells survived only 1 to 2 dead when the polymer cured with 3 g ml silver . The concentration of silver in the medium with polymer depends on polymer degradation speed and is lower than that in the medium only at first culture stage.

In general the optimal concentration of silver for cure time was approximately 17.1 g ml. Preferred concentrations of silver for cell proliferation were found to be lower than 15 g ml. In general concentration of silver is preferably in the range of approximately 5 g ml to 20 g ml. The concentration of silver can also be in the range of 5 g ml to 15 g ml. These concentration ranges were found to be suitable to catalyze polymerization were not toxic to mammalian human cells and exhibited antibacterial effect that is functioned as an antibacterial agent over a period of time in the cured wound healing matrices of the present invention for example over a period of a week .

In summary the present invention provides generally a self curing gelation space forming gel to ensure wound healing of dermal wounds. The hybrid gels of the present invention limit infections while being non toxic to the skin cells and not substantially altering normal hemostasis. Polymers of the present invention are readily developed from biocompatible building blocks as described above. The polymers are maintained in a liquid or flowable state by segregating gelation catalysts from the liquid pre gel so that the gel could form to the spatial defect of the wound.

Representative gels studied limited proliferation or compromised viability of the two major structural cell types in the skin dermal fibroblasts and keratinocytes. Cell migration critical for the ingrowth needed to repair spatial defects was diminished by both gels. As multiple gel components were responsible we sought to compensate for these defects by adding a biologically active migration promoter. Collagen I was chosen for its biological and physiochemical properties not least the fact that it occurs naturally in skin. This protein corrected the migration deficits.

Silver was chosen as a catalyst as it is widely used as a general antimicrobial agent to prevent infections during surgery. We demonstrated that the gels were antimicrobial to a range of skin infection agents including for example yeast aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Silver both leaves the gel to maintain a relatively aseptic wound bed and remain in the gel to prevent it from becoming a nidus for infection over a four to seven days period corresponding to the period of initial wound repair during which infection is most likely to occur . Ag was found to leave the PEG gel more efficiently than it left from the lactose gel. Thus the PEG gel may be preferred in controlling infections in a larger wound bed. However it is also important to maintain some Ag in the gel or this can act as a privileged site for an infection nidus akin to a foreign body. Concentration of various components in the gels of the present invention can be adjusted to optimize results. In both PEG and lactose based gels at least 20 of the Ag was retained in the gel after one week.

The mechanism of Ag dissemination can impact the anti microbial actions. Ag appears to diffuse from the gels as the daily leaching was more extensive than the incremental leaching compare to . This leaching was not dependent on gel degradation as this does not occur extensively in the first week while the release of Ag was greatest in the first day when it would be most needed. As such the Ag would be able to not only diffuse from the gel but also back into it if infection set in that matrix.

All reagents in the polymer gel namely polyethylene glycol PEG 3 4 dihydroxyphenyl L alanine DOPA lactose Lac silver Ag peroxydiphosphate N Hydroxysuccinimide NHS dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC methyl trifluoroacetate 1 1 3 3 tetramethylguanidine TMG collagen type I acid soluble from kangaroo tail were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. USA . Lysine diisocyanate methyl ester LDI was obtained from Chemical Division Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd. Tokyo Japan . Tissue culture medium was from Life Technologies Grand Island N.Y. USA .

Ten microorganisms commonly associated with human skin or wound infections were selected as a challenge. The microorganisms were obtained either from ATCC Manassus Va. USA or from human isolates from the Clinical Microbiology Laboratory of the UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside Hospital except and which were recovered from an actual human wound. ATCC 25923 ATCC 27853 comprise the other eight out of a total of ten organisms tested. The use of PHI independent clinical isolates and human cells were approved as exempted by the University of Pittsburgh IRB.

Glassware was dried before use. Lactose 0.70 g FW 342.3 2 mmol OH 16 mmol dissolved in 5 ml of dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO in a round bottomed flask was flushed with nitrogen. A rubber septum was used to seal the flask. Using a syringe 3.1 ml of LDI FW 212 d 1.157 16 mmol NCO 32 mmol was added to the flask. All the constituents in the flask were stirred in the dark at room temperature for 2 days. FT IR and H NMR were used in monitoring the isocyanate group consumption and formation of urethane linkages. A solution of DOPA 3.2 g in 20 ml DMSO FW 197 16 mmol was added to the constituents in the flask when the FT IR showed that 50 of isocyanate groups peak at 2266 cm which were initially present had been consumed. The constituents in the flask were stirred at room temperature for another three days until the FT IR showed that no more isocyanate groups were present. The product obtained were transferred to dialysis tubing molecular weight cutoff 1000 Spectrum Laboratories Inc. Fort Lauderdale Fla. USA and dialyzed against three changes of distilled deionized water DDI water and dried under vacuum at room temperature. The molecular weight of the product was determined by mass spectrometry. The net DLL pre polymer obtained was 85.3 pure.

DLP was synthesized in the same manner as above. In brief 2 g of PEG FW 400 10 mmol OH groups were reacted with 2 ml of LDI 10 mmol NCO 20 mmol for two days. Subsequently 2 g DOPA FW 197 10 mmol NH10 mmol in 20 ml of DMSO was added and reacted at room temperature for three days. The reaction mixture was dialyzed against water and dried under vacuum. The net DLP prepolymer obtained was 81.5 pure.

This prepolymer was generated in a manner similar to that of the DLL material. Here 0.5 g glycerol FW 92 5.4 mmol OH 16.3 mmol was dissolved in 5 ml DMSO and reacted with 3.2 ml of LDI FW 226 d 1.157 16.38 mmol NCO 32.76 mmol for two days. Then 3.2 g DOPA FW 197 16.24 mmol NH16.24 mmol in 20 ml of DMSO was added. The reaction proceeded at room temperature for another three days. The reaction mixture was treated in the same way as that of DLL polymer. The yield of the DLG prepolymer was 83.4 .

Glassware was dried in a vacuum oven prior to use. 2 g PEG were reacted with 2 ml of LDI FW 226 d 1.157 10.75 mmol NCO 21.5 mmol for two days then 2 g DOPA in 20 ml of DMSO were added at this point the reaction mixture was not clear . The reaction was performed at room temperature for three days until the reaction mixture was clear and FT IR showed no remaining isocyanate groups. Then N hydroxysuccinimide 1.15 g 10 mmol and 2.06 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hr. Dicyclohexylurea was removed by centrifugation 3000 rpm for 30 min . The supernatant was transferred to a flask and 0.1 g collagen I from Bovine was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 10 hours then transferred to dialysis tubing Spectrum Laboratories Inc. Fort Lauderdale Fla. USA molecular weight cutoff of 1000 . The products were dialyzed against DDI water to remove DMSO and small molecular weight monomers water changed every three hours until a precipitate appeared. The precipitate was dissolved with 0.1 M NaBOand the solution was initiated by AgNO KPOto make gel.

1.97 g L DOPA 10 mmol and 5 ml of dry methanol was added into an oven dried 25 ml round bottomed flask equipped with a Teflon stirring bar and rubber septum and purged with dry argon. Then 1.3 ml of TMG 10 mmol and 1.4 ml of methyl trifluoroacetate 12.5 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred vigorously at room temperature until DOPA had completely dissolved after about 24 hr . At this point the flask was immersed in cold water 0 C. and 5 ml of methanol and 4 g Dowex 50 resin H form were added. The mixture was filtered after stirring for 10 min. The filtrate was evaporated under reduced pressure. The crude product was re crystallized from ethyl acetate and the yield of N trifluoroacetyl L DOPA was 78 . See Curphey T. J. Trifluoroacetylation of amino acids and peptides by ethyl trifluoroacetate. 1979 44 2805 2807 Lapidot Y. Rappoport S. Wolman Y. Use of ester of N hydroxysuccinimide in the synthesis of N acrylamino acids. 1967 8 142 145.

L DOPA was activated by reacting N trifluoroacetyl L DOPA obtained above 2.93 g 10 mmol with N hydroxysuccinimide 1.15 g 10 mmol in the presence of 50 ml dry ethyl acetate and 2.06 g dicyclohexylcarbodiimide. See Rothe M. Falanga V. Growth factors. Their biology and promise in dermatologic diseases and tissue repair. 1989 125 1390 1398. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 hr. Dicyclohexylurea was removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to yield white crystals of N trifluoroacetyl L DOPA hydroxysuccinimide ester 2.2 g 76 .

Acid soluble type I collagen was extracted from rat skin by the method described by Piez et al. Rat skin samples were delicately cleaned of hair residues with a sharp razor blade and subcutaneous fat was washed with ether. See Piez K. A. Eigner E. A. Lewis M. S. The chromatographic separation and amino acid composition of the subunits of several collagens. 1963 2 58 66. Treated skin samples 0.5 g were minced with scissors into small pieces 1 1 mm each and placed in 100 ml of 0.5 mol L ice cold acetic acid solution at 4 C. for 48 hr with constant shaking. The mixture was finely homogenized for 60 s. Pepsin was added 1 g L to the suspension and digestion lasted 16 hr at 4 C. with constant shaking. The digested homogenate was centrifuged at 30 000 g for 60 min at 4 C. The suspension was collected and the pellet was re digested and centrifuged under the same conditions. Collagen was precipitated from the suspension by adding sodium chloride to 2.2 M. After stirring for 2 hr at 4 C. the precipitate was collected by centrifugation at 30 000 g for 30 min. The collagen was re suspended in 50 ml of 0.5 mol L acetic acid and kept shaking over night at 4 C. The solution was dialyzed against 0.5 M acetic acid at 4 C. for 3 days with 6 changes. This salt free collagen was freeze dried and stored over calcium chloride at 4 C.

200 mg activated L DOPA N trifluoroacetyl L DOPA hydroxysuccinimide ester reacted with 20 ml of collagen solution 1 mg ml in PBS buffer pH 5 for two days at room temperature with constant stirring.See Myles J. L. Burgess B. T. Dicknson R. B. Modification of the adhesive properties of collagen by covalent grafting with RGD peptides. 2000 11 69 86. N hydroxysuccinimide on activated L DOPA formed stable amide bonds with primary amine groups on collagen. Excess activated L DOPA and other chemicals were removed by dialysis against water. Water was changed every 3 hours until Kaiser test showed negative in the dialysate. DOPA conjugated collagen was freeze dried and stored at 4 C.

100 mg DOPA conjugated collagen obtained by above treatment was put in 10 ml of THF at room temperature. 10 ml of 0.4 M sodium hydroxide solution was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hour. The product was put into a dialysis bag and dialyzed with water to remove small molecules including methyl trifluoroacetate and sodium hydroxide. Water was changed every 3 hours until neutral pH appeared in dialysis solution. Thus DOPA modified without N protected collagen was obtained.

The DOPA containing polymer gels were prepared by radical polymerization of an aqueous solution of prepolymer using the redox initiation system Ag potassium peroxydiphosphate. 50 l of AgNO KPOsolution various loadings were added to 7 ml of prepolymer solution 0.3 g prepolymer dissolved in 1 ml of 0.1 M NaB0solution in a 75 mm teflon dish.

Polymer degradation was tested in vitro by placing known amounts of polymer gel in phosphate buffer solution 1 PBS 100 mg polymer ml PBS at 37 C. for up to three weeks. The concentration of DOPA liberated from the polymer was detected by UV VIS as described by Waite et al. See Waite J H Benedict C V. Assay of dihydroxyphenylalanine dopa in invertebrate structural proteins. Methods Enzymol 1984 107 397 413. The changes in pH of the solution due to polymer degradation were assessed in parallel samples with the use of a pH meter.

The determination of swelling characteristics of polymer gels was determined at 37 C. using a gravimetric method. See Arica M Y Bayramoglu G Arica B Yalcin E Ito K Yagci Y. Novel hydrogel membrane based on copoly hydroxyethyl methacrylate pvinylbenzyl poly ethylene oxide for biomedical applications properties and drug release characteristics. Macromol Biosci 2005 5 10 983 92 Andreopoulos F M Beckman E J Russell A J. Light induced tailoring of PEG hydrogel properties. Biomaterials 1998 19 15 1343 52. The dry gels were weighed at first and then immersed in a phosphate buffer solution at a pH 7.4. At different time points the swollen gels were removed from the buffer and weighed on a sensitive balance. The swelling ratio was calculated as follows Swelling ratio 100

Where Wand Wstand for swollen and dry weights of the gels respectively. The change in the diameter of the gel at various time points was also determined.

Initially we tested the antimicrobial properties by a modification of the disc diffusion method. This provided a measure of both the antimicrobial activity and diffusibility of the gelated Ag. See Gallant Behm C L Yin H Q Liu S Heggers J P Langford R E Olson M E et al. Comparison of in vitro disc diffusion and time kill kinetic assays for the evaluation of antimicrobial wound dressing efficacy. Wound Repair Regen 2005 13 4 412 21.

The control disc was filter paper Schleicher and Schuell Co. Keene N.H. USA 1.25 cm diameter size and 1 mm thickness which was impregnated with 20 microliter of 1 silver nitrate solution for a final mass of 0.125 g Ag. Test discs were cut from polymerized matrix 2 cm diameter in size and 1 mm in thickness. In the prepolymer solution we had 10 microgram microliter of Ag for a final load of 3.3 g disc.

The stock microbial cultures were plated onto the blood agar plates and colonies were picked manually. They were suspended in trypticase soy broth BD Diagnostics Sparks Md. USA to obtain an equivalent to 0.5 Mcfarland barium Sulphate 10 10CFU ml standard. A sterile cotton swab was suspended in the microbe containing trypticase soy broth and used to streak at right angles in four directions in blood agar plates to form a confluent lawn of growth on 150 mm plates of Mueller Hinton agar with sheep blood BD Diagnostics Sparks Md. . Test and control discs were placed on the plates which were incubated at 37 C. for 24 hours. The zone of inhibition surrounding the control as well as our experimental gels was measured. For anaerobic organisms the inoculated plates were placed into a sealed anaerobic bag AnaBag 150 Hardy Diagnostics Santa Maria Calif. USA containing an anaerobic generator sachet Anaerogen Gibson Laboratories Inc. Lexington Ky. USA . The anaerobic cultures were incubated for 48 hours at 25 C. For each experiment a similar plate inoculated with served as a control.

To distinguish whether the microbial inhibitions noted in the disc diffusion method were due to bactericidal or bacteriostatic effects quantitative assays were employed taking into consideration the aerobes anaerobes and yeast. See Gallant Behm C L Yin H Q Liu S Heggers J P Langford R E Olson M E et al. Comparison of in vitro disc diffusion and time kill kinetic assays for the evaluation of antimicrobial wound dressing efficacy. Wound Repair Regen 2005 13 4 412 21 Wright J B Lam K Hansen D Burrell R E. Efficacy of topical silver against fungal burn wound pathogens. Am J Infect Control 1999 27 4 344 50 Bowler P G Duerden B I Armstrong D G. Wound microbiology and associated approaches to wound management. Clin Microbiol Rev 2001 14 2 244 69.

The suspension of the microorganism was made by first allowing the organism to grow in appropriate broth. For all the microorganisms except and Mueller Hinton Broth BD Diagnostics Sparks Md. USA was used. For and Todd Hewitt Broth BD Diagnostics Sparks Md. USA was used. For trypticase soy broth was being used. The growth was adjusted to a 0.5 Mcfarland Standard 10 10CFU ml and a 1 200 dilution of this broth was made 10 10CFU ml using saline as a diluent. For each assay four tubes each containing 4 ml of broth were used. One tube contained one disc of the gel under test which was 1.3 cm in diameter and 1 mm in thickness with the final load of Ag being 2.58 ug. The second tube contained two discs of the gel a third tube contained three discs. The fourth tube contained no gel and served as a growth control. To each of the four tubes 0.1 ml of the diluted bacterial suspension was added.

For a 1 100 dilution of the standardized suspension was used as the inoculum. Aerobes were incubated at 37 C. for 24 hours whereas anaerobes were incubated at 25 C. for 48 hours. Before incubation the actual size of the inoculum was determined by making serial dilutions from the inoculated growth control tube. One tenth ml of these dilutions were inoculated in triplicate onto blood agar plates BD Diagnostic Systems Sparks Md. which were incubated overnight at 37 C. After incubation of the tubes similar dilutions were made and plated to determine the fraction of the original inoculum that survived.

Quantitative measurement of the Ag both retained in and leaving from the gel would suggest temporal nature of the antimicrobial activities. Kumar R Munstedt H. Silver ion release from antimicrobial polyamide silver composites. Biomaterials 2005 26 14 2081 8 Dowsett C. The use of silver based dressings in wound care. Nurs Stand 2004 19 7 56 60. Total leaching of Ag from gels was assessed by placing a 1.3 cm diameter 1 mm thick piece of gel in trypticase soy broth for 10 days having a final load of Ag 2.58 g. In addition the daily leaching of silver was assessed by moving gels from tube to tube of trypticase soy broth at 24 hr intervals. Ag concentration was determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy using a Perkin Elmer EDLS Perkin Elmer AA5100 Wellesley Mass. USA .

The gels were assessed for biocompatibility by determining effects on survival proliferation and migration of human dermal cells and keratinocytes. Primary human dermal fibroblasts were obtained from Musculoskeletal Research center Department of Orthopaedic Surgery University of Pittsburgh Medical center Pittsburgh Pa. USA. For human keratinocytes we used HaCaT cells a spontaneously immortalized but not transformed human keratinocyte cell line which was provided by Dr. N. Fusenig German Cancer Research Center Heidelberg Germany . These studies were deemed exempted 4e by the University of Pittsburgh IRB.

The primary human dermal fibroblasts and keratinocytes were subcultured into 24 well plates at 20 000 per well. When the cells became 70 confluent the gel additive was placed along with 1 ml of complete medium. Solid gels were 1 mm thick and cut to 90 of the well surface 9 mm diameter Liquid gels were of the same solution used for the solid gel but for the initiators and added to cover the well surface completely. Cell viability was assessed at 24 48 and 72 hours by MTT Assay and cell proliferation by automated Coulter Counter Beckman Coulter Instruments . For cell migration an in vitro wound healing assay was performed.

As the gel matrix will be placed into wounds with blood it needs to be either hemostatic or not interfere with the normal hemostasis. Otani Y Tabata Y Ikada Y. Hemostatic capability of rapidly curable glues from gelatin poly L glutamic acid and carbodiimide. Biomaterials 1998 19 22 2091 8. Excess human blood citrated blood and platelet poor plasma were used as approved by the University of Pittsburgh IRB exemption 4e . Prothrombin time activated partial thromboplastin time clotting time were measured by using tube method with reagents from BioData Corp. Horsham Pa. USA .

The foregoing description and accompanying drawings set forth the preferred embodiments of the invention at the present time. Various modifications additions and alternative designs will of course become apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing teachings without departing from the scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is indicated by the following claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes and variations that fall within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

