---

title: System and method for generating a customized workflow user interface
abstract: The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface. Predetermined graphical user interface elements are first stored in an associated data storage. The graphical user interface elements are then generated on an associated display. Each graphical user interface element is then associated with an abstraction interface. Selection data is then received corresponding to selected graphical user interface elements. User interface data is thereafter generated in accordance with the selection data and the associated abstraction interface. Workflow data is subsequently output representing document processing operations corresponding to the selected graphical user interface elements. Thereafter, the workflow data is communicated to an associated document processing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07757178&OS=07757178&RS=07757178
owner: Toshiba Tec Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 07757178
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060810
---
The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface. More particularly the subject application is directed to a system and method for allowing a user to customize a user interface to create a customized workflow or to provide enhanced or specialized functionality or services.

Typically document processing devices such as multifunctional peripheral devices have included a user interface having pre defined functions or operations which are accessible via the user interface such as copy scan fax or print. Multifunctional peripheral devices are being enhanced such that these devices have the ability to perform many more functions in addition to basic copying scanning faxing or printing. It is desirable for a user to be able to access these additional functions from the user interface of the device rather than having to access such functions via an associated workstation and then locate the device to retrieve the job. Currently in order for a user to customize a user interface to include additional functions the user would need access to the device source code and the customization process would be very time consuming and prone to error. It would be desirable to have a multifunctional peripheral device with an extensible user interface which is easily modified to include new functions and adapt to a user s workflows. Such a user interface would allow users to quickly create a customized user interface and workflow which meets the user s needs and requirements.

The subject application overcomes the above noted problems and provides a system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface.

In accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface.

Further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method for allowing a user to customize a user interface to create a customized workflow or to provide enhanced or specialized functionality or services.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method for generating a user interface which is easily modified to include new functions and adapt to a user s workflows.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system for generating a customized workflow user interface. The system includes means adapted for storing data representative of a plurality of predetermined graphical user interface elements and means adapted for generating data representative of the plurality of graphical user interface elements on an associated display wherein each of the plurality of predetermined graphical user interface elements are associated with an abstraction interface. The system also includes means adapted for receiving selection data representative of a plurality of selected graphical user interface elements from the plurality of predetermined graphical user interface elements and interface generator means adapted for generating user interface data in accordance with the selection data and associated abstraction interface. The system further comprises output means adapted for outputting workflow data representative of a plurality of document processing operations corresponding to the selected graphical user interface elements and means adapted for communicating the workflow data to an associated document processing device.

In one embodiment the system further comprises means adapted for receiving at least one secondary graphical user interface element. In this embodiment the interface generator means includes means adapted for generating the user interface data in accordance with the at least one secondary graphical user interface element and the output means includes means adapted for outputting workflow data corresponding to at least one secondary graphical user interface element.

In another embodiment the abstraction interface is comprised of application user interface wrappers corresponding to the graphical user interface elements. Preferably the graphical user interface elements include at least one of windows edit boxes and push button graphical elements.

In a further embodiment the workflow data includes data representative of at least one document processing operation. Preferably the at least one document processing operation is facsimile transmission printing scanning copying file transfer file storage or electronic mail transmission.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a method for generating a customized workflow user interface in accordance with the system as set forth above.

Still other advantages aspects and features of the subject application will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description wherein there is shown and described a preferred embodiment of the subject application simply by way of illustration of one of the best modes best suited to carry out the subject application. As it will be realized the subject application is capable of other different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the scope of the subject application. Accordingly the drawings and description will be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface. In particular the subject application is directed to a system and method for allowing a user to customize a user interface to create a customized workflow or to provide enhanced or specialized functionality or services. More particularly the subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a user interface which is easily modified to include new functions and adapt to a user s workflows. It will become apparent to those skilled in the art that the system and method described herein are suitably adapted to a plurality of varying electronic fields employing user interfaces including for example and without limitation communications general computing data processing document processing or the like. The preferred embodiment as depicted in illustrates a document processing field for example purposes only and is not a limitation of the subject application solely to such a field.

Referring now to there is shown a system for generating a customized workflow user interface in accordance with the subject application. As shown in the system is capable of implementation using a distributed computing environment illustrated as a computer network . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computer network is any distributed communications system known in the art capable of enabling the exchange of data between two or more electronic devices. The skilled artisan will further appreciate that the computer network includes for example and without limitation a virtual local area network a wide area network a personal area network a local area network the Internet an intranet or the any suitable combination thereof. In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the computer network is comprised of physical layers and transport layers as illustrated by the myriad of conventional data transport mechanisms such as for example and without limitation Token Ring 802.11 x Ethernet or other wireless or wire based data communication mechanisms. The skilled artisan will appreciate that while a computer network is shown in the subject application is equally capable of use in a stand alone system as will be known in the art.

The system also includes a document processing device depicted in as a multifunction peripheral device suitably adapted to perform a variety of document processing operations. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such document processing operations include for example and without limitation facsimile scanning copying printing electronic mail document management file storage file transfer or the like. Suitable commercially available document processing devices include for example and without limitation the Toshiba e Studio Series Controller. In accordance with one aspect of the subject application the document processing device is suitably adapted to provide remote document processing services to external or network devices. In addition thereto the subject application further enables the accessing of external resources via the document processing device . Preferably the document processing device includes hardware software and any suitable combination thereof configured to interact with an associated user a networked device or the like.

According to one embodiment of the subject application the document processing device is suitably equipped to receive a plurality of portable storage media including without limitation Firewire drive USB drive SD MMC XD Compact Flash Memory Stick and the like. In the preferred embodiment of the subject application the document processing device further includes an associated user interface such as a touch screen LCD display touch panel alpha numeric keypad or the like via which an associated user is able to interact directly with the document processing device . In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the user interface is advantageously used to communicate information to the associated user and receive selections from the associated user. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the user interface comprises various components suitably adapted to present data to the associated user as are known in the art. In accordance with one embodiment of the subject application the user interface comprises a display suitably adapted to display one or more graphical elements text data or the like to an associated user receive input from the associated user and communicate the same to a backend component such as a controller as explained in greater detail below. Preferably the document processing device is communicatively coupled to the computer network via a suitable communications link . As will be understood by those skilled in the art suitable communications links include for example and without limitation WiMax 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11 x Bluetooth the public switched telephone network a proprietary communications network infrared optical or any other suitable wired or wireless data transmission communications known in the art.

In accordance with the subject application the document processing device further incorporates a backend component designated the controller suitably adapted to facilitate the operations of the document processing device as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Preferably the controller is embodied as hardware software or any suitable combination thereof configured to control the operations of the associated document processing device facilitate the display of images via the user interface direct the manipulation of electronic image data and the like. For purposes of explanation the controller is used to refer to any myriad of components associated with the document processing device including hardware software or combinations thereof functioning to perform cause to be performed control or otherwise direct the methodologies described hereinafter. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the methodologies described with respect to the controller are capable of being performed by any general purpose computing system known in the art and thus the controller is representative of such a general computing device and is intended as such when used hereinafter. Furthermore the use of the controller hereinafter is for the example embodiment only and other embodiments which will be apparent to one skilled in the art are capable of employing the system and method for generating a customized workflow user interface of the subject application. The functioning of the controller will better be understood in conjunction with the block diagrams illustrated in explained in greater detail below.

Communicatively coupled to the document processing device is a data storage device . In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the data storage device is any mass storage device known in the art including for example and without limitation magnetic storage drives a hard disk drive optical storage devices flash memory devices or any suitable combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment the data storage device is suitably adapted to store a variety of graphical elements workflows documents applications or the like. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that while illustrated in as being a separate component of the system the data storage device is capable of being implemented as internal storage component of the document processing device a component of the controller or the like such as for example and without limitation an internal hard disk drive or the like. Preferably the data storage device includes data representative of a plurality of graphical user interface elements data representative of one or more document processing workflows an extensive set of application programming interface wrappers associated with the graphical user interface elements and the like.

The system illustrated in further depicts a user device in data communication with the computer network via a communications link . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the user device is shown in as a laptop computer for illustration purposes only. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the user device is representative of any personal computing device known in the art including for example and without limitation a computer workstation a personal computer a personal data assistant a web enabled cellular telephone a smart phone a proprietary network device or other web enabled electronic device. The communications link is any suitable channel of data communications known in the art including but not limited to wireless communications for example and without limitation Bluetooth WiMax 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11 x a proprietary communications network infrared optical the public switched telephone network or any suitable wireless data transmission system or wired communications known in the art. Preferably the user device is suitably adapted to generate and transmit electronic documents document processing instructions user interface modifications upgrades updates personalization data or the like to the document processing device or any other similar device coupled to the computer network .

Turning now to illustrated is a representative architecture of a suitable backend component i.e. the controller shown in as the controller on which operations of the subject system are completed. The skilled artisan will understand that the controller is representative of any general computing device known in the art capable of facilitating the methodologies described herein. Included is a processor suitably comprised of a central processor unit. However it will be appreciated that processor may advantageously be composed of multiple processors working in concert with one another as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. Also included is a non volatile or read only memory which is advantageously used for static or fixed data or instructions such as BIOS functions system functions system configuration data and other routines or data used for operation of the controller .

Also included in the controller is random access memory suitably formed of dynamic random access memory static random access memory or any other suitable addressable and writable memory system. Random access memory provides a storage area for data instructions associated with applications and data handling accomplished by processor .

A storage interface suitably provides a mechanism for non volatile bulk or long term storage of data associated with the controller . The storage interface suitably uses bulk storage such as any suitable addressable or serial storage such as a disk optical tape drive and the like as shown as illustrated in as the storage device as well as any suitable storage medium as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

A network interface subsystem suitably routes input and output from an associated network allowing the controller to communicate to other devices. Network interface subsystem suitably interfaces with one or more connections with external devices to the device . By way of example illustrated is at least one network interface card for data communication with fixed or wired networks such as Ethernet token ring and the like and a wireless interface suitably adapted for wireless communication via means such as WiFi WiMax wireless modem cellular network or any suitable wireless communication system. It is to be appreciated however that the network interface subsystem suitably utilizes any physical or non physical data transfer layer or protocol layer as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. In the illustration the network interface is interconnected for data interchange via a physical network suitably comprised of a local area network wide area network or a combination thereof.

Data communication between the processor read only memory random access memory storage interface and network interface subsystem is suitably accomplished via a bus data transfer mechanism such as illustrated by bus .

Also in data communication with bus is a document processor interface . Document processor interface suitably provides connection with hardware to perform one or more document processing operations. Such operations include copying accomplished via copy hardware scanning accomplished via scan hardware printing accomplished via print hardware and facsimile communication accomplished via facsimile hardware . It is to be appreciated that a controller suitably operates any or all of the aforementioned document processing operations. Systems accomplishing more than one document processing operation are commonly referred to as multifunction peripherals or multifunction devices.

Functionality of the subject system is accomplished on a suitable document processing device that includes the controller of shown in as the controller as an intelligent subsystem associated with a document processing device. In the illustration of controller function in the preferred embodiment includes a document processing engine . A suitable controller functionality is that incorporated into the Toshiba e Studio system in the preferred embodiment. illustrates suitable functionality of the hardware of in connection with software and operating system functionality as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the preferred embodiment the engine allows for printing operations copy operations facsimile operations and scanning operations. This functionality is frequently associated with multi function peripherals which have become a document processing peripheral of choice in the industry. It will be appreciated however that the subject controller does not have to have all such capabilities. Controllers are also advantageously employed in dedicated or more limited purposes document processing devices that are subset of the document processing operations listed above.

The engine is suitably interfaced to a user interface panel which panel allows for a user or administrator to access functionality controlled by the engine . Access is suitably via an interface local to the controller or remotely via a remote thin or thick client.

The engine is in data communication with printer function facsimile function and scan function . These devices facilitate the actual operation of printing facsimile transmission and reception and document scanning for use in securing document images for copying or generating electronic versions.

A job queue is suitably in data communication with printer function facsimile function and scan function . It will be appreciated that various image forms such as bit map page description language or vector format and the like are suitably relayed from scan function for subsequent handling via job queue .

The job queue is also in data communication with network services . In a preferred embodiment job control status data or electronic document data is exchanged between job queue and network services . Thus suitable interface is provided for network based access to the controller via client side network services which is any suitable thin or thick client. In the preferred embodiment the web services access is suitably accomplished via a hypertext transfer protocol file transfer protocol uniform data diagram protocol or any other suitable exchange mechanism. Network services also advantageously supplies data interchange with client side services for communication via FTP electronic mail TELNET or the like. Thus the controller function facilitates output or receipt of electronic document and user information via various network access mechanisms.

Job queue is also advantageously placed in data communication with an image processor . Image processor is suitably a raster image process page description language interpreter or any suitable mechanism for interchange of an electronic document to a format better suited for interchange with device services such as printing facsimile or scanning .

Finally job queue is in data communication with a parser which parser suitably functions to receive print job language files from an external device such as client device services . Client device services suitably include printing facsimile transmission or other suitable input of an electronic document for which handling by the controller function is advantageous. Parser functions to interpret a received electronic document file and relay it to a job queue for handling in connection with the afore described functionality and components.

In operation predetermined graphical user interface elements are first stored for later access. The graphical user interface elements are then generated on an associated display. Preferably each element is associated with an abstraction interface. Selection data corresponding to a selected graphical user interface element is then received. User interface data is thereafter generated according to the selection data and the associated abstraction interface. Workflow data is then output representing a document processing operation. In accordance with the subject application the document processing operation corresponds to the selected graphical user interface element selected. Thereafter the workflow data is communicated to an associated document processing device.

In accordance with one example embodiment of the subject application predetermined graphical user interface elements are stored in the associated data storage device . Preferably the graphical user interface elements include for example and without limitation windows edit boxes push buttons check boxes icons indicia and the like. The graphical elements are stored on the data storage device thereby providing access thereto via the controller remote access via the user device or the like. The graphical user interface elements are then generated on an associated display such as the display associated with the user interface . During this generation of the elements on the associated display each element is associated with an abstraction interface. Preferably the association between abstraction interface and graphical user interface element is stored in accessible memory such as the data storage device . As will be understood by those skilled in the art an abstraction interface is any application program interface wrapper over common graphical user interface elements as are known in the art. Preferably the abstraction interface is based on an extensible markup language e.g. XML.

A backend component such as the controller then receives selection data via the display associated with the user interface corresponding to one or more graphical user interface elements selected by an associated user. The skilled artisan will appreciate that such selection data is capable of originating from a remote user via the user device directly via the user interface associated with the document processing device or the like. User interface data is then generated by the controller in accordance with the received selection data and the abstraction interface associated therewith. Workflow data representing document processing operations corresponding to the selected graphical user interface elements is then output. A determination is then made whether a secondary graphical user interface element has been selected by the associated user. When no such element is detected the workflow data is communicated to a workflow implementation component associated with the controller of the document processing device . That is the controller stores the workflow data in memory and begins to implement the workflow on the associated document processing device . The skilled artisan will appreciate that the controller one of its myriad of components or other component associated with the document processing device is capable of facilitating the communication of the workflow data to the workflow implementation component of the controller tasked to implement document processing workflows.

When a secondary element has been selected by an associated user user interface data is generated in accordance with the second element selected. Thereafter workflow data representing document processing operations corresponding to the selected secondary element is output. This secondary element associated workflow is then communicated by the controller associated with the document processing device to a workflow implementation component.

For example when an associated user desires to add a graphical user interface element such as a custom push button for a scan to email document processing operation the user first selects a desired graphical user interface element i.e. the push button element. Preferably the user then selects parameters corresponding to the workflow to be associated with the push button element i.e. transmit documents to a specific destination address or the like. The controller via a suitable component associated therewith then generates user interface data according to the selected graphical element and the abstraction interface with which it is associated. Workflow data is then output representing the scan to email operation corresponding to the graphical user interface element selected i.e. the custom push button. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the workflow data is thereby associated with the push button which is then displayed on the user interface associated with the document processing device . Thus subsequent selection of the graphical element e.g. push button by the user will implement the scan to email workflow including the specific destination address on the document processing device .

The skilled artisan will appreciate that other document processing operations are equally capable of being selected by the associated user and the use of the scan to email operation is for example purposes only. In accordance with the subject application a secondary graphical element is also capable of being included in the desired workflow for example a print operation. That is in addition to the scanning of a document and transmitting the document to the specific destination the user is capable of adding a print operation such that the electronic mail message or a hardcopy of the document is output in accordance with the selection of the secondary graphical user interface element.

In accordance with one example embodiment of the subject application a user associated with the document processing device is able to edit and add screens to a graphical user interface displayed on the user interface . Custom event handler shared libraries for each new screen are then uploaded via any suitable means known in the art. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that custom event handler shared libraries are a collection of subprograms used to develop each screen which include for example and without limitation callback functions. A workflow builder component is then edited to include a new workflow. Various custom components required for implementing the desired workflow as will be understood by those skilled in the art are then uploaded to the controller associated with the document processing device . A particular graphical element is then selected by the user to be associated with the desired workflow. Preferably callback implementations or functions then set custom parameters that define the new workflow e.g. electronically mailing one or more documents from a particular web address to a specific electronic mail address retrieving one or more documents from a particular web address and printing the retrieved document or documents or the like. The skilled artisan will appreciate that callback implementations or functions are executable code that is passed as an argument to other code which includes for example and without limitation OnLoad PushButtonClick InputEditDone OnEvent or the like. Upon selection of the graphical element the workflow builder component determines the appropriate workflow using the various components available and executes the new workflow. Thus custom transfer agents download the document from the specified web address and forward the retrieved document to a default scan to email agent. A custom transfer agent as will be understood by those skilled in the art is a computer program or agent that transfers data from one point to another including for example and without limitation an agent to perform a specialized service such as to retrieve a document from a specified web address or the like. The default agent then transmits via electronic mail the retrieved document to the designated electronic mail address. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the foregoing example describes one of a plurality of applications of the subject application as will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The skilled artisan will appreciate that the subject system and components described above with respect to and will be better understood in conjunction with the methodologies described hereinafter with respect to and . Turning now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a customized workflow user interface in accordance with the subject application. Beginning at step predetermined graphical user interface elements are stored via any suitable means known in the art. Preferably the elements are stored in a data storage device associated with the document processing device . At step graphical user interface elements are generated on an associated display via any suitable means known in the art. For example and without limitation the controller directs the display of the elements on the associated user interface .

At step each graphical user interface element is associated with an abstraction interface. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the abstraction interface is any application program interface wrapper known in the art over common graphical user interface elements including for example and without limitation windows edit boxes push buttons or the like. Preferably the abstraction interface is based upon an extensible markup language e.g. XML. Selection data is then received at step corresponding to selected graphical user interface elements. Thus a user associated with the customized workflow selects one or more graphical user interface elements from those displayed on the associated user interface . At step user interface data is generated in accordance with the selection data and the associated abstraction interface. Workflow data is then output at step representing document processing operations corresponding to the selected graphical user interface elements. Thereafter at step the workflow data is communicated to the associated document processing device .

Referring now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a customized workflow user interface in accordance with the subject application. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the methodology depicted in corresponds to graphical and or textual presentation as applied to a user interface associated with a document processing device. The use of the subject methodology implemented with respect to a user interface of an associated document processing device is for illustration purposes and the subject application is not limited only to such an implementation. The method begins at step with the controller or other suitable component of the system storing predetermined graphical user interface elements in the associated data storage device . At step one or more graphical user interface elements are generated on the display associated with the user interface of the document processing device . The skilled artisan will appreciate that the generation of the graphical user interface elements is equally capable of being remotely displayed on the user device . Furthermore as will be apparent to those skilled in the art the method described with respect to is capable of being performed remotely at the user device and communicated to the document processing device via the computer network .

Irrespective of where the elements are displayed each element is associated at step with an abstraction interface. As previously discussed the abstraction interface is any application program interface wrapper over common graphical user interface elements as are known in the art. At step selection data of selected graphical user interface elements is received from the associated user. The skilled artisan will appreciate that such data is capable of being input by the associated user via the user device the user interface or other means as are known in the art. User interface data is then generated at step in accordance with the selection data and the associated abstraction interface. Workflow data representing document processing operations corresponding to the selected graphical user interface elements is then output at step .

A determination is then made at step whether a secondary graphical user interface element has been selected by the associated user. That is the controller the user device or other suitable component of the system detects whether a second graphical user element has been selected by the associated user for implementation into the workflow. Upon a negative determination at step flow proceeds to step whereupon the workflow data is communicated to an associated document processing device . When the determination made at step is positive flow progresses to step whereupon user interface data in accordance with the selected secondary graphical user interface element is generated. Workflow data representing document processing operations corresponding to the secondary user interface element is then output at step . Thereafter flow proceeds to step whereupon the workflow data inclusive of both the first and secondary graphical user interface elements is communicated to the associated document processing device .

The subject application extends to computer programs in the form of source code object code code intermediate sources and partially compiled object code or in any other form suitable for use in the implementation of the subject application. Computer programs are suitably standalone applications software components scripts or plug ins to other applications. Computer programs embedding the subject application are advantageously embodied on a carrier being any entity or device capable of carrying the computer program for example a storage medium such as ROM or RAM optical recording media such as CD ROM or magnetic recording media such as floppy discs. The carrier is any transmissible carrier such as an electrical or optical signal conveyed by electrical or optical cable or by radio or other means. Computer programs are suitably downloaded across the Internet from a server. Computer programs are also capable of being embedded in an integrated circuit. Any and all such embodiments containing code that will cause a computer to perform substantially the subject application principles as described will fall within the scope of the subject application.

The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the subject application has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the subject application to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the subject application and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to use the subject application in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the subject application as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

