---

title: Viscous material feed system with platen and method
abstract: A viscous material feed system, comprises a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container; and a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container to express material from the container to the feed tube and a plunger comprising a platen axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber, the platen comprising an O-ring fitted against a platen driving face; a full ring with tabs extending to secure the O-ring to the platen driving face with a circumferential surface exposed to the chamber and a vacuum breaker valve to the chamber that seals the platen face when in contact with container material and retains residual material adhering to the platen face when the valve is activated at a termination of a driving cycle of the platen through a container content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600658&OS=07600658&RS=07600658
owner: Momentive Performance Materials
number: 07600658
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061128
---
The invention relates to a viscous material feed system with a platen and method in particular for a viscous material processing system.

In a viscous material processing system feed is mixed and additives are injected in precise proportions to produce a customized product. The system requires exact and reliable dosing and feed operations to achieve uniform products with narrow tolerance properties. Feed material for these processes can be delivered to processing sites in various containers. When delivered the material must be removed from the container for processing. For example a processing system can require emptying material such as silicone gum from drums or similar containers. However the feed material may be very viscous and resistant to flow and hence resistant to removal from the delivery container.

Some container emptying processes use a plunger to drive through the container to empty its content. In these processes a flat forward platen of the plunger imposes upon the material to drive it from the container for further processing. However forcibly driving material from a container requires that both container ends be open. The open ends can adversely affect container integrity. Forcibly emptying the open container can result in rupture and loss of material. Other less robust emptying methods avoid container collapse but fail to completely empty a container. There is a need for a device and method to remove viscous material from a container to empty all the material without collapsing the container.

The invention provides a system and method to express substantially all material from a container to a viscous material processing system without collapsing the container.

In an embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed system comprising a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container and a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container to express material from the container to the feed tube and a plunger comprising a platen axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber the platen comprising an O ring fitted against a platen driving face a full ring with tabs extending to secure the O ring to the platen driving face with a circumferential surface exposed to the chamber and a vacuum breaker valve to the chamber that seals the platen face when in contact with container material and retains residual material adhering to the platen face when the valve is activated at a termination of a driving cycle of the platen through a container content.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed method comprising driving a platen face against a surface of a viscous material held in a container creating a vacuum between the platen face and viscous material surface to adhere residual material from the container to the platen face differentially breaking the vacuum at a circumference of the residual adhered material to retain the residual material adhered to the platen face to permit withdrawal of the residual material from the container along with the platen face.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material processing system comprising a container evacuator comprising a platen comprising at least two ports through the platen the ports located at balancing equal circumferential spacings from a central activating piston to the platen and a compounding system that receives viscous material expressed from a container by the container evacuator.

In another embodiment the invention is a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container to express material from the container to a feed tube and a plunger comprising a platen axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber the platen comprising an O ring fitted against a platen driving face a full ring with tabs extending to secure the O ring to the platen driving face with a circumferential surface exposed to the chamber and a vacuum breaker valve to the chamber that seals the platen face when in contact with container material and retains residual material adhering to the platen face when the valve is activated at a termination of a driving cycle of the platen through a container content.

In still another embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed system comprising a feed tube that receives material expressed form a container and a container evacuator comprising a platen comprising at least two parts through the platen the ports located at balancing equal circumferential spacings from a central activating piston to the platen wherein the piston drives the platen through the container to express material through the ports to the feed tube.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material processing system comprising a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container to express material from the container to the feed tube and a plunger comprising a platen axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber the platen comprising an O ring fitted against a platen driving face a full ring with tabs extending to secure the O ring to the platen driving face with a circumferential surface exposed to the chamber and a vacuum breaker valve to the chamber that seals the platen face when in contact with container material and retains residual material adhering to the platen face when the valve is activated at a termination of a driving cycle of the platen through a container content a controller that drives the container evacuator a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container by the container evacuator according to the controller and a cutter that severs material from the feed tube to meter the material to a processor according to the controller.

In still another embodiment the invention is a silicone gum processing system comprising a silicone gum compounding system and a viscous material feed system to the compounding system the feed system comprising a container evacuator comprising a chamber to hold a container to express silicone gum from the container to the feed tube and a plunger comprising a platen axially and slidably accommodated within the chamber the platen comprising an O ring fitted against a platen driving face a full ring with tabs extending to secure the O ring to the platen driving face with a circumferential surface exposed to the chamber and a vacuum breaker valve to the chamber that seals the platen face when in contact with container silicone gum and retains residual silicone gum adhering to the platen when the valve is activated at a termination of a driving cycle of the platen through a container content.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material feed method comprising driving a platen face against a surface of a viscous material held in a container to express the material from the container through symmetrically located ports through the platen face to a feed tube and cutting material from the feed tube to a viscous material compounding system.

The invention relates to the handling of a viscous material such as a silicone gum. Silicone gum includes a viscous silicone or polysiloxane or organopolysiloxane that has the chemical formula RSiO where R organic groups such as methyl ethyl and phenyl. These materials typically comprise an inorganic silicon oxygen backbone . . . Si O Si O Si O . . . with attached organic side groups which can be four coordinate. In some cases organic side groups can be used to link two or more of these Si O backbones together.

By varying the Si O chain lengths side groups and crosslinking silicones can be synthesized with a wide variety of properties and compositions. They can vary in consistency from liquid to gel to rubber to hard plastic. Silicone rubber or silicone gum is a silicone elastomer typically having high temperature properties. A silicone gum can have a viscosity range between 150 000 900 000 poise at 25 C.

Silicone rubber offers resistance to extreme temperatures being able to operate normally from minus 100 C. to plus 500 C. In such conditions tensile strength elongation tear strength and compression set can be superior to conventional rubbers.

A silicone gum can be extruded or molded into custom shapes and designs such as tubes strips solid cord or custom profiles within size restrictions specified by a manufacturer. Cord can be joined to make O Rings and extruded profiles can also be joined to make up seals.

It is desirable to provide a viscous feed system that accurately and efficiently processes viscous materials such as silicone gum for use in various applications. However these materials can be highly resistant to flow highly adhering highly cohering and or shear thickening and consequently difficult to handle. Accuracy of a packaging process and or accuracy of a process of obtaining a defined quantity of such material for example in a continuous process is costly when substantial time is required for cutting or separating a quantity of the material from a larger quantity or for removing material from a container.

The invention provides a system and method to control processing of viscous material. Features of the invention will become apparent from the drawings and following detailed discussion which by way of example without limitation describe preferred embodiments of the invention.

The drawings illustrate the invention as a process to compound silicone gum into a base for forming articles. In the drawings is a schematic top view representation and is a schematic side view representation of a section of a material processing system showing an integrated feed system and compounding system . The feed system includes a battery of material extracting apparatus MEA conveyor and chute . and are elevation views of an MEA and is a cut away side sectional view of a section of MEA . The MEA includes container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and floor scale . The integrated feed system is controllably connected to controller . is a cut away view of an upper section of the drum press MEA of and . As shown in and compounding system includes mixer roll mill conveyor belt and compounder .

The MEA serves to express the viscous material from a container to the compounding system . By express is meant to squeeze force or press out the viscous material from the container. In a preferred compounding operation of the invention with respect to and operation commences with delivery of a pallet of four drums of gum. The drawings embodiment illustrates a feed system including a method of evacuating a silicone gum containing drum . A suitable drum in the embodiment has fully openable ends and has a cylindrical wall of steel fiberboard or other material structure for transporting a silicone gum material. The drum has opposite ends each of which is openable to accommodate a movable plunger at one end as hereinafter described.

The material in the drums may be identical or it may be of a variety of physical properties such as viscosity. The drums are removed from the pallet one by one by drum hauler such as from Easy Lift Equipment Co. Inc. 2 Mill Park Court Newark Del. 19713. The lid of each of three drums is removed and each of the drums is loaded by the hauler into a respective container evacuator which may be a modified Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press. Use of the drum hauler eliminates ergonomic risks associated with lifting and handling the heavy drums . The silicone gum is then forced from each drum by an MEA into the conveyor . In the drawings embodiment an MEA comprises a container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus .

As illustrated in and the container evacuator is a press that comprises a substantially cylindrical chamber with hinged enclosures and for securing a drum removably within the chamber . The chamber and hinged enclosures and securely cradle the drum during a material extracting operation. A disc shaped platen fits into the chamber with a flat driving surface. Platen face is oriented perpendiculars to the longitudinal axis of the chamber and correspondingly perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of a drum held within the chamber .

The operation of feed system can be described with reference to and . In operation the press enclosures and are unlatched by activating fasteners to open enclosures and . The drum hauler is used to load a first drum into the press cavity . The drum is positioned by a locator ring at the base of the chamber . The press enclosures and resist axial expansion pressure exerted by plunger driving through drum . The enclosures and are secured by a plurality of fasteners.

Each MEA includes the container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus and cage and each is set on a respective floor scale . In each MEA the feed tube is connected through the disc shaped platen to communicate with the press cavity . The platen is driven by hydraulic plunger .

Shown are two ports through the full ring and platen to communicate with respective conduit tines that converge to feed tube as shown in . The ring has tabs welded to full ring to extend across the exposed outer circumference surface of the O ring . is an elevation that shows abutment of beveled circumference edge surface of the full ring to a corresponding sloped edge surface of the O ring .

An operator can commence system operation at controller . When a cycle is activated by the operator a plunger of each container evacuator of the battery shown in is activated via control lines . Then as the screw conveyor starts turning the press platen with connected feed tube is forced by hydraulically driven plunger to travel down into the drum interior.

As platen is driven into drum displaced air is exhausted through vacuum breaker . When the platen face contacts drum material the vacuum breaker valve closes to seal the platen face and the O ring seals the side of the platen to the inside wall of drum shown in . As further illustrated in as platen traverses the drum longitudinal axis within the press cavity drum contents are displaced upward into connecting ports of the feed tube . As the platen completes traversing the drum axis material is forced upward into the feed tube to be eventually expelled from the feed tube discharge port . Then as the platen is raised from the drum bottom a vacuum is created below the platen and the O ring is caused to slightly sag between tabs . This results in residual viscous material from the drum adhering to the platen face to complete the drum evacuation as the platen is withdrawn at the termination of a driving cycle.

While applicant does not intend to be bound by any particular mechanism it is believed that substantially all material is emptied from the drum as the platen is withdrawn because vacuum breaks first at the edge of the platen rather than the vacuum breaker vent valve. The edge vacuum break is caused by the O ring sag and its bevel slope interface with full ring . Because the vacuum breaks first at the edge of the platen air flows between the drum and product allowing the product to stick to the platen leaving no material in the drum. Any material left at the bottom of the drum adheres to the plate face to be drawn up for easy removal by an operator.

The material is cut into increments by cutting apparatus as it exits from the discharge port to the conveyor to charge to compounding system . Cutting can be accomplished by various cutting mechanisms including a cutting head disposed at an outlet end port of the feed tube . In the and embodiment the MEA includes a cutting apparatus located at discharge port . The cutting apparatus includes rails that secure cutting wire to guide the wire to cut material exiting the feed tube discharge port . The rails secure the cutting wire to traverse the feed tube longitudinal axis at discharge port when activated by container via lines and .

The controller of illustrates an embodiment of the invention. The controller of can be a microprocessor computer data processing device semiconductor chip or the like. Controller is respectively connected to loss of weight scales via lines to sense loss of weight as material is expressed from the drums to conveyor . The controller computes a weight of material charged to the conveyor by the difference between an initial weight of the MEA and initially emplaced and full drum . In the embodiment of the drawings the controller can sense an initial total weight of all the MEAs and emplaced full drums of the MEA battery of for example the three shown in . The controller monitors the combined weight as material in the drums is evacuated to the conveyor . The controller contemporaneously calculates a weight of material charged to the conveyor and hence to the compounding system according to a difference between the initial total weight and contemporaneously second total weight.

The controller also can control operation of cutting apparatus according to the calculated charged material weight. Initially the cutting apparatus can be programmed to make cuts of about football sized material for example to fit into a 14 inner diameter screw conveyor . Once a piece of material is cut from the feed tube discharge port floor scale senses a contemporaneous weight and feeds this signal back to the controller . The controller controls the material processing system according to set points. In this application a set point weight or amount is a target quantity or amount of material to be fed form a feed system usually in a feed session. In one embodiment set point weight or amount means a point weight or amount at which the feed session is to be terminated. In another embodiment as the controller senses a contemporaneous weight signal to be charged for example within 15 pounds of set point weight or amount to the compounding system the controller can signal the cutting apparatus via lines to increase cut frequently to produce smaller incremental pieces. The smaller pieces at approach to set point weight or amount permit improved control of feed to attain a charged material weight within a prescribed tolerance range for example 2 pounds for a batch.

As the drum evacuation process is completed door fasteners of the hinged enclosures and open and a controller Run Screen can display NEW DRUM. A beacon light mounted on the container evacuator can turn yellow indicating another drum is ready to be changed. The hydraulic platen driving motor terminates and the chamber enclosures open. The evacuator is reloaded with a drum and the process repeated.

As material is charged from the MEAs tote screw conveyor the conveyor is turning at low rpms to feed the material to the mixer. The screw is programmed to stop turning 90 seconds after the last MEA makes its last cut. This time can be adequate to clear all material from the conveyor .

Conveyor transports and drops the cut viscous material to chute to compounding system which includes mixer such as Banbury roll mill conveyor belt and compounder . In the mixer fumed silica the silicone gum and a treating agent can be added to form a densified polymer filler mass. After the gum feed is mixed it is dropped into the nip of roll mill where the material is rolled into a strip form. After a drop a programmed logic controller PLC for example controller verifies that the mixer drop door has opened then reclosed and is ready for feed. For any residual material that hangs in the chute a pusher is programmed to sweep a few seconds after the conveyor stops. This serves to scrape down the chute and ensure all material gets into the mixer to correctly formulate the batch.

The mill imparts a final mix to fully incorporate filler and to cool material. Then the material is stripped from the mill in a strip form. The strip form is fed by means of conveyor belt into compounder which may be an extruder. The compounder serves to clean and form the material for packaging. The material can be packaged and boxed through an automated cut weigh and packaging system.

The following Example is illustrative and should not be construed as a limitation on the scope of the claims.

This EXAMPLE is a combined description of press MEA experiments at Schwerdtel US headquarters New Jersey ProSys Corporation Missouri and at GE Silicones Waterford N.Y. Experiments on a shaftless screw conveyor were conducted at GE Silicones Waterford using Martin Sprocket equipment.

A viscous material feed system as schematically illustrated in the drawings included a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press mounted to Vishay BLH floor scale that measured material flow according to loss of weight. The Schwerdtel S 6 F press included a hydraulic pressure driven cylinder and platen that drives a platen into the 55 gallon drum.

The feed system included a feed tube to receive material expressed from a drum by the press and a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system that metered material from the feed tube to a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor according to loss of weight sensed by the scale. The screw conveyor interfaced to a chute. The chute permitted material to fall via gravity directly to a Banbury mixer. Material remaining in the chute was cleared by a pneumatic pusher prior to each mix GE design and fabrication . The system was controlled by operators at two 2 QuickPanel LM90 touch screens of a control system.

In operation an operator first entered set point weight or amounts into a system controller. In this embodiment one set point weight or amount represented a target batch of silicone gum to be charged to a Banbury mixer which was part of a silicone gum compounding system. A pallet of four 4 fifty five 55 gallon drums of silicone polymer Viscosity Range 150 000 to 900 000 Poise was placed on a drum carousel. The 55 gallon straight sided steel drums were delivered by the carousel and one drum was loaded into the Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press using an Easy Lift Equipment Drum Hauler unit. The Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press was controlled by a GE Fanuc 90 30 PLC. Material was displaced from the drum to the feed tube by the hydraulic Schwerdtel gum press.

The operator pressed a START OR RESTRT BATCH button of the controller to commence operation. The press doors were secured by hydraulically driven fasteners. Then as the screw conveyor started turning the hydraulically driven press platen commenced traveling down into the drum. As a platen traversed the drum drum contents were squeezed upward into the feed tube. When the platen completed traversing the drum axis the operation was terminated and the platen was withdrawn. As the platen was withdrawn a vacuum between the bottom of the platen and adhering material was interrupted first selectively at the platen face circumference. The selective interruption caused substantially all remaining viscous material from the drum to remain adhered to the platen face to be removed and fed into the feed tube by a worker. As material exited the feed tube a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting system diced the material into pieces that then fell into a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor to charge to a Banbury mixer.

A batch of material flow from conveyor to the Banbury mixer was measured by loss of weight detected by the Vishay BLH load cells. A combined weight of presses feed tubes cutting mechanisms and material containing drums was registered by the control system as a first weight. The control system monitored a charged weight of silicone gum to the Banbury by registering progressing weight as silicone gum was pressed from the drums and expelled through the feed tubes and cutting systems. The control system displayed a differential between the first weight and registered progressive weights that represented a charged silicone gum weight. The cutting mechanism rate was increased when charged silicone gum weight was within 15 pounds of the set point weight. The control system continued to sense the differential weight and terminated the batch operation when the differential weight registered within a 2 pound range of the set point weight or amount.

The EXAMPLE illustrates control of material charge to a compounding system according to the invention.

The invention includes changes and alterations that fall within the purview of the following claims. The foregoing examples are merely illustrative of the invention serving to illustrate only some of the features of the present invention. For example the invention includes a controller with a set of instructions to refer to a look up data base to determine a set point weight or amount for a material to be charged to a compounding system sensing an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material signaling commencement of the material extracting apparatus operation to evacuate the material from the container sensing a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material calculating a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a specified range of the set point weight or amount.

The appended claims are intended to claim the invention as broadly as it has been conceived and the examples herein presented are illustrative of selected embodiments from a manifold of all possible embodiments. Accordingly it is Applicants intention that the appended claims are not to be limited by the choice of examples utilized to illustrate features of the present invention.

As used in the claims the word comprises and its grammatical variants logically also subtend and include phrases of varying and differing extent such as for example but not limited thereto consisting essentially of and consisting of. 

Where necessary ranges have been supplied those ranges are inclusive of all sub ranges there between. Such ranges may be viewed as a Markush group or groups consisting of differing pairwise numerical limitations which group or groups is or are fully defined by its lower and upper bounds increasing in a regular fashion numerically from lower bounds to upper bounds. It is to be expected that variations in these ranges will suggest themselves to a practitioner having ordinary skill in the art and where not already dedicated to the public those variations should where possible be construed to be covered by the appended claims.

It is also anticipated that advances in science and technology will make equivalents and substitutions possible that are not now contemplated by reason of the imprecision of language and these variations should also be construed where possible to be covered by the appended claims.

All United States patents and patent applications referenced herein are herewith and hereby specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety as though set forth in full.

