---

title: Enterprise video intelligence and analytics management system and method
abstract: A wireless surveillance system and methods of operating same including a server software application that enables automated and centralized video analytics data storage and reporting capabilities as well as digital video management and/or recording device (DVM) and camera management capabilities for multiple DVMs and digital input capture devices (ICDs) such as cameras. The system includes at least one server computer operable via user interface selections that activate corresponding functions associated with the software application and the camera(s) and DVM(s) connected and operable within the system via wireless communication with each other and the server through a network and authorized access thereto. In a method for using the system, a user adds DVMs to the system by selecting a subset or the complete group of cameras related to each DVM to be added to the server application. Then, the user selects at least one of the cameras to be managed and displayed, the selection being made by the user in the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730534&OS=07730534&RS=07730534
owner: Smartvue Corporation
number: 07730534
owner_city: Nashville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060429
---
This non provisional utility patent application is related to one or more prior filed co pending non provisional applications as a continuation in part 

The present invention relates generally to surveillance and sensor technology and equipment and more particularly to a wireless video surveillance system releasably mountable and configured to function within a track lighting system.

While video surveillance systems have existed in the prior art typically they are wired devices that are difficult time consuming and costly to install and operate. Also generally the video surveillance systems are configured in standalone arrangements requiring separate power supply an individual base or mounting with separate hardware and limited range of data input capture due to location limitations. Also the prior art typically does not coordinate much less collectively compare and analyze data inputs from a multiplicity of input devices positioned at geographically remote locations and present the information to a user in a concise format for monitoring and system management.

Thus there is a need to provide a surveillance system that includes fully functional independent surveillance devices that communicate to a remote centralized server for collecting analyzing and reporting data to a remote user wherein the system is integrated and coordinated for control and management of independent devices remotely by the authorized user.

The present invention provides a wireless surveillance system and methods of operating same providing at least one data input capture device ICDs including cameras which have the ability to capture video audio and or data from sensors such as temperature and humidity data and further including a server software application that enables automated and centralized video analytics data storage and reporting capabilities as well as digital video management and or recording device DVM and camera management capabilities for multiple DVMs and ICDs or cameras. Preferably the server is configured capable and operable for managing a multiplicity of DVMs and cameras more preferably at least about 1000 DVMs. The system includes at least one remote centralized server computer operable via user interface selections that activate corresponding functions associated with the software application and the ICDs or camera s and DVM s connected and operable within the system via wireless communication with each other and the server through a network and authorized access thereto.

In a method for using the system a user adds DVMs to the system by selecting a subset or the complete group of cameras related to each DVM to be added to the server application. Then the user selects at least one of the cameras to be managed and displayed the selection being made by the user in the user interface.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art after a reading of the following description of the preferred embodiment when considered with the drawings.

The present invention provides a wireless surveillance system and methods of operating same providing at least one input capture device ICD that is newly or retrofittably releasably mountable to a track of a track lighting system. Single or multiple ICDs are provided independently attachable and configurable for wireless communication through a digital input recorder DIR positioned in a location remote from the ICD. The ICD transmits the data wirelessly using network protocols such as 802.11 cell phone protocols such as CDMA or GSM or any other wireless protocol such as Zigbee Bluetooth or other to a DVM and the DVM can store the data report on the data and take further actions on that data either alone or in conjunction with a remote server computer RSC . Thus the present invention provides at least one ICD or camera in each of various locations that are connected via a network to the RSC and with coordinated data inputs and analyses thereof viewable for a user on a computer or electronic device having a display and user interface thereon. Preferably such controllable remote access includes user viewing of captured inputs of the target environment including live and or historical recorded data storing editing retrieving or otherwise reviewing said inputs and controlling the system settings and activities and combinations thereof as well as specific analytics or reports that may be presented in a variety of report formats for communicating the analytics and data to the system user.

In a schematic illustrating a system and componential relationships in one embodiment constructed and configured according to the present invention is shown. Graphical user interfaces GUIs are referred to as user interfaces in this description and select user interfaces are illustrated in . shows a computer with a display and user interface thereon that is viewable by a user on that computer or via a network connection such as the Internet that is in communication with a remote server computer RSC via a network router . The RSC receives data input from ICDs and related DVRs or DVMs located at various predetermined locations and configured and operable in wireless communication with the ICDs to receive data transmission therefrom.

For each geographic location in this illustration there is at least one digital camera or an input capture device ICD having data input sensors a processor and memory and other functional components for its basic operation as set forth in the following description of .

The server software application of the present invention enables automated and centralized video analytics data storage and reporting capabilities as well as digital video management and or recording device DVM and camera management capabilities for multiple DVMs and cameras. Preferably the server is configured capable and operable for managing a multiplicity of DVMs and cameras more preferably at least about 1000 DVMs. The system includes at least one server computer operable via user interface selections that activate corresponding functions associated with the software application and the camera s and DVM s connected and operable within the system via wireless communication with each other and the server through a network and authorized access thereto.

In a method for using the system a user adds DVMs to the system by selecting a subset or the complete group of cameras related to each DVM to be added to the server application. Then the user selects at least one of the cameras to be managed and displayed the selection being made by the user in the user interface. The user interface is editable or changeable based upon selections by the user. By way of example but not limitation the user selection to modify the user interface to display one or more of the cameras associated with a particular DVM live the user interface is operable to permit the user to select fewer or greater camera views and or to include different camera views live.

Initially the user operates the system from a user interface that is the main user interface. Within the main user interface view the system is operable based upon selections made by the user. User selection is provided from a list of DVRs within the main user interface. Following selection of at least one DVR the system is operable to display to the user previews from any or all of the cameras associated with the DVR selected by click selecting options to Show All or Show Selected. The system is operable to display a live video stream associated with at least one camera when the user selects the at least one camera preview image option which is displayed in the Selected Camera View area of the user interface.

When the user selects via the user interface through click select or other selection from a predetermined listing or display of options on any DVR available from the selection listed in the user interface only the cameras associated with or corresponding to that DVR are displayed in the ICDs or Cameras list in the user interface and the selected camera preview images that are displayed on the user interface in the Camera Preview list. At least one or more authorized users can check any cameras in the Camera list to add them to the Camera Previews list for viewing streaming images therefrom in the user interface. The system is operable to provide for a user to select via the user interface any preview image in the Camera Previews list to view live video from that camera which is displayed in the Selected Camera View area.

Additionally in the present invention system and method video analytics data is automatically sent to the application. The video analytics data is based upon video information provided by each camera and corresponding DVM actively operating within the system via the network. The video analytics data includes date time and image analytics video trends analytics video changes with respect to predetermined settings or initial inputs and combinations thereof. The system is further operable to provide reports based upon the video analytics data and to permit authorized user s to request via the user interface to receive electronic versions of the reports associated with any single camera a number of cameras or all cameras corresponding to any of the DVM s .

The system is further operable to provide for user control of all camera and analytics settings as well as run real time video analytics reports on data live from any particular or a combination of all video intelligence data sources wherein the user control is initiated via the user interface and selections provided through the display to the user thereon. The user interface and controls provide for and are operable for permitting the user s to create fields of interest in any video image from any camera that has been registered with the system and then track people behavior in those areas then run reports on that behavior. The fields of interest are subsets of the displayed video image and are selected by the user via geographic

With point and click ease the system can be setup to track people entering and leaving through a door. It also tracks multiple fields of interest in any video image. It can store data on the number of people to enter each field the number of people to leave each field the amount of time each person stays in each field and the direction of travel of each person. This data is then displayed in user friendly reports or can be exported into a common data format for use by other analytical tools including but not limited to standard commercial grade software such as Microsoft Excel.

In any of the reports a user can click select from a graphic user interface on a computer screen electronic display of an electronic device having computing and or communication functions to select any PERSON ID in the report and this hyperlink will open a video playback window and playback that associated video clip. For example in the report if a person noticed that a people had stayed in a field of interest for a very long time they could see who it was by clicking on that data point and the video recorded from that item would be displayed. Preferably all reports are formatted to be stored and or operate in dynamic html or javascript to make them fast simple and cross platform compatible as well as removing an requirement for a runtime to be installed.

In other applications of the present invention the system can also be set to track cars in applications for traffic control management planning violations monitoring and automatic ticketing.

Similarly the ICD has a plastic case with a metal plate affixed thereto and a removable tilt adjustable base removably attached to the bottom of the ICD. Antennas also shown in near the top of the ICD housing provide wireless communication for the present invention with other devices such as the DIR or RSC via a wireless communication network. A power motion detection LED is positioned near the bottom of the front of the ICD and can illuminate either red or green. Another input such as a microphone is also illustrated being positioned on the front of the ICD housing to detect sound. The camera lens is positioned near the top front of the ICD. Other input capture device functions and operations for various inputs are preferably optimally positioned in or on the housing to provide for reasonable input intensity from the target environment.

Similarly the DIR has air vents to facilitate cooling. Some of the ports may differ between the ICD and DIR. The DIR has the following ports RJ 45 Alarm I O Out Audio Out RCA Video Out DC In and USB .

The wireless surveillance system according to the present invention includes at least one wireless input capture device ICD for sensing capturing and transmitting surveillance inputs from a predetermined input capture location and a digital input recorder device DIR for receiving the surveillance inputs from the at least one wireless ICD and storing those inputs which are capable of being reviewed by a system user on a controller server computer wherein the server computer is optionally used for communication with the ICDs and DIRs. In one embodiment of the present invention the at least one ICD and corresponding DIR device are used to form the system without requiring a separate server computer. The DIR itself has full capabilities when arranged for communication wirelessly with ICDs for recording and controlling inputs to the system as well as settings for each of the at least one ICD including activation of each.

On the front end of the system the at least one wireless ICD further includes a power source a power converter soft power down component which provides for a gentle power down so that ICD settings are preserved and not lost. Preferably while the ICD is wireless it further includes an optional network connection at a back side of the ICD also so it can be hardwired into a network.

The ICD also includes at least one sensor and at least one input component for detecting and recording inputs a processor a memory a transmitter receiver and optionally at least indicator light for indicating camera activities all constructed and configured in electronic connection. By way of example and not limitation the at least one input component may include a microphone and or a camera. In one preferred embodiment of the present invention the at least one wireless ICD includes two antennas for providing a wireless signal for receiving and or transmitting data with the DIR device or another ICD s . The ICDs are operable for cross communication with each other including data exchange wherein the data exchange includes information about the surveillance environment settings inputs and combinations thereof. The at least one wireless ICD further includes a housing having a removable casing around the lens to make lens adjustments or settings ICD adjustments and settings are preferably optional and are not usually required in preferred embodiments of the present invention as the DIR device automatically establishes and controls the ICD settings and activities for each of the at least one wireless ICDs associated with the particular DIR device.

For the preferred embodiments where the ICD includes a digital video camera DVC having a lens and corresponding camera components the camera further includes a computer chip providing for capabilities of performing video compression within the ICD itself. The ICD as a wireless digital video camera is capable of capturing video within its range within the surveillance environment and compressing the captured video into a data stream the capture occurring at predetermined dates and times during activity detection and or on command from the wireless DIR associated therewith. In the case of video the images are adjustable to capture at different sizes different frame rates and or to include the display of the name of the device determined by the user and or the system the date the time and combinations thereof. The ICD including a DVC is capable of capturing images that are combinable and or integratable with the video data stream and or compressible into an individual image data stream all at predetermined dates and times when activity such as motion or audio are detected on command from the wireless DVR and combinations thereof. As with video capture image capture is adjustable to capture at different sizes different frame rates and or to include the display of the name of the device determined by the user and or the system the date the time and combinations thereof. A data stream of images is transmittable wirelessly to the wireless DVR.

Similarly where the at least one ICD has audio capabilities the captured audio which is combinable and or integratable with other inputs captured by the ICD sensors is compressible into an individual audio data stream which is transmittable wirelessly to the DIR. The activity of audio ICD is activatable at predetermined dates and times during activity detection and or on command from the wireless DIR associated therewith. The audio ICD is further adjustable to capture audio at different or variable rates.

Preferably since the ICD generates heat during operation the ICD housing includes a cooling system having a vent and a low noise cooling fan. Since the video components of ICDs generate heat that must be dissipated for optimal performance of the system preferred embodiments of the present invention include housing units with components that operate at lower temperatures i.e. which generate less heat during operation and include housing units formed of materials that dissipate heat well and may include a combination of materials such as metals and synthetic plastics or composites. While ICDs are preferably used for indoor applications waterproofing and weather proofing housing units and other components for sealing the housing against water and weather are used for outdoor applications of the present invention. By way of example sealed or gasketed casing weatherproof venting and fan components to prevent water blowing into or being sucked into the case are used for outdoor ICD units.

Other components optional to the housing unit but preferred for ease of use of the system include a removable filter collar on a front end of the camera lens which facilitates user access for changing the filter and or to provide a different filter such as a polarization filter or a specialty filter for example to reduce light input or camera aperture.

The ICDs of the present invention are capable of detecting motion capturing video detecting and or capturing audio providing at least one data stream capability including video compressed video audio and combinations thereof. The at least one ICD is capable of capturing video which is compressible into a data stream and transmittable wirelessly to the DIR device with the ICD audio data or other input data such as temperature humidity chemical presence radiation and other input data depending upon the sensors and intake means of each ICD being combinable and or integratable with the video data stream. Thus while the ICDs each include at least one sensor for detection and at least one capture input means preferably each of the ICDs include at least two sensors and input means for image and or video and audio capture. In a preferred embodiment at least two sensor types are used audio and image or video sensors. The at least one indicator is included with the ICD to indicate that the power is on and to indicate that motion and or audio being detected. The indicator is activatable when motion and or audio is detected in a predetermined area and or in a predetermined amount within the environment.

Each of the at least one ICDs is constructed for configuration that is capable of wireless communication 2 way with the corresponding DIR device and or any other ICD s which when configured provide a system for wireless electronic surveillance of an environment. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the ICDs are provided with multiple input multiple output MIMO wireless capability. Other wireless communication may be provided instead of MIMO.

Night vision for ICD video input capture may be provided using an infrared IR light source so that the video recorded may be effective in low to no light conditions. Image or video input capture may be provided in a range of resolution in black white in color and sized based upon inputs from the DIR device and or controller server computer by an authorized user of the system and are modifiable after setup of the system by modifying controls remotely and or by modifying hardware.

The ICD further includes at least one chip that makes the device an intelligent appliance permitting functions to be performed by the ICD itself without requiring software installation or the DIR including but not limited to sensor and input controls such as camera digital zoom pan left and right tilt up and down image or video brightness contrast saturation resolution size motion and audio detection settings recording settings communication with other ICDs and single chip video compression single DSP . The ICD also includes a sensor with ability for high dynamic range for inputs. Preferred embodiments of a system according to the present invention includes video technology commercially provided by PIXIM and set forth under U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 791 611 6 788 237 6 778 212 6 765 619 6 737 626 6 726 103 6 693 575 6 680 748 6 665 012 6 552 746 6 545 258 6 542 189 6 518 909 6 507 083 6 498 576 6 498 336 6 452 152 6 380 880 and 6 310 571.

The ICD further includes a stand to support the device the stand may be included with integral with or attached to the housing. The stand is constructed and configured to be mountable to a wall suspend from ceiling and provide a variety of stable positions for the ICD to capture as much data from a given environment as appropriate given the space conditions and input capture type desired. Importantly the stand serves as a stable base to tilt the ICD for camera direction up and down and or side to side. The stand is movable between positions but retains a fixed position by a predetermined friction to ensure so that the ICD stays in place wherever the positioning was last stopped. The base and stand of the ICD is constructed such that it does not require mounting to a surface to provide stability. The adjustability and mobility of the device are significant features of the present invention to ensure optimal surveillance and easy setup.

Furthermore the stand is weight balanced for good center of gravity to support the adjustment on the stand for stability on the entire range of motion for the ICD on its stand since motion of the ICD is adjustable and provides for dynamic range of motion when the ICD is in use the stand construction enables remote modification of settings without requiring the user of the system to readjust or optimize the ICD positioning in person.

The ICD preferably is constructed and configured for a range of coverage which can vary depending upon the conditions and limitations of a particular target environment. In a preferred embodiment of the system the ICD has a range of coverage with a target range of at least up to 250 ft. The ICDs are capable of having a range of up to 300 meters with an active wireless range from 1 1000 ft linear feet indoors. Advantageously the ICD can be configured and activated quickly for quick start up of a surveillance system in the target environment. Additionally the ICDs have the ability to communicate with one another to act as a data repeater and extend the usable wireless range to 3 000 meters and more.

Significantly no adjustments to camera settings such as focus and focal length are required after camera installation ICD settings are preadjusted and further controllable remotely by the DIR and or RSC and or other ICD s . By contrast in the prior art adjustments are usually always required for surveillance cameras following installation. Preprogrammed settings may be provided with automatic and remote adjustment capabilities. Where the ICD is a video camera the settings may include focus resolution etc.

Each of the at least one ICD is constructed to optimally reduce heat from particular heat generating components. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the ICD includes a plastic case with metal sides to reduce heat while the system is running. Also a back plate of the ICD or camera is all metal to increase heat dissipation and to optimize weight and heat management which important where there is a lot of power involved as with wireless video input devices. Also significantly the ICDs and or DIR devices are constructed with a separate chamber for imaging components to reduce heat. It is known that heat is not good for imaging sensors or equipment however cooling fans can generate noise which is preferably minimized with security systems and components therein. The camera is configured to communicate with an imaging board with a flexible electronics communication cable which permits the camera to have a separate chamber for optimized heat reduction. This is a problem specific to wireless cameras that has not been successfully addressed in the prior art.

The ICD also includes at least one and preferably two antenna that are removable including standard antennae which may be substituted for a patch antenna and or a long range antenna.

The inputs captured by ICDs are provided to the DIR for which output for RCA viewing is available such as connecting a monitor with a user interface for remote viewing of video from video cameras. In this case the setup easier because the remote user can see what the camera views from the monitor which is removably connectable to the system. The ICD and DIR also have an optional network connection at the back side so the devices can be hardwired into the network if appropriate however wireless connections are preferred.

Additionally the ICDs have inputs such as video and microphone and at least one indicator light. In the case of a wireless video camera the housing includes an easily removable casing around the lens to make lens adjustments or settings which optional and not usually required.

Additionally the ICDs have the ability to communicate with one another to exchange data about the environment and all control settings and other settings of any other ICDs.

The wireless DIR device communicates directly with the at least one ICD and in embodiments where the controller server is included in the system the DIR device also communicates with the controller server to send data streams to the server and receive data or instruction from the controller server to control its properties. In the case of a video camera for at least one ICD the DIR may also be referred to as a digital video recorder device DVR .

Surprisingly compared with prior art surveillance systems the DIR device functions as an appliance which permits a rapid setup of the system. Significantly since the DIR device operates as an appliance there is no software installation involved in the basic system setup. The preferred embodiments of the present invention including at least one ICD and a corresponding DIR device permit for setup and recordation of inputs to the system from the observation or surveillance environment with one click activation by the user installer generally in less than ten minutes from start to finish. Such rapid setup including installation and activation to recording of the system is not possible with prior art systems given their complex components interactivity via transmission lines and or software installations which typically require an expert or trained specialist to ensure proper setup installation activation and testing of the system prior to ongoing operation. By sharp contrast the preferred embodiments of the present invention provide for one click activation for receiving and recording inputs to the at least one wireless ICD i.e. for activating the ICD capability to record designated dates and times when a surveillance event a motion event or an audio event is detected by at least one of the at least one ICDs in the system immediately after the rapid setup is complete.

Furthermore the system provides for rapid settings adjustment including settings for sensitivity of ICD motion and audio detection preferably the settings adjustment is made by the user through the DIR device. The user simply sets a surveillance area for observation and data capture by each ICD of the at least one wireless ICD for video capture using an ICD with a digital camera the camera may be set to focus on a predetermined location within the area such as a window a door and the like. While the settings are practically a function of the ICD itself the DIR device which is also wireless functions to control the settings of each of the corresponding ICDs associated with that DIR device. Other functions performed by the DIR device include but are not limited to printing saving or storing recorded inputs from the ICDs transferring data to a removable storage device such as a USB storage key device.

Also a power supply and a soft power down function is provided similar to the ICD soft power down to preserve the settings of the DIR device in the event of power termination to the device.

The DIR is capable of running software for managing input from the at least one wireless ICD associated with or corresponding to a particular DIR device after installation. With the software the DIR is capable of intaking and managing up to 16 data streams simultaneously allowing the user to control the ICD unit including allowing the user to zoom pan and tilt the camera as well as managing microphone sensitivity. Sensitivity controls for other ICD input means such as heat or temperature chemical substance presence radiation detection and the like may be controlled remotely from the wireless DIR device as well. Other DIR device control functions for controlling the ICDs include but are not limited to controlling brightness contrast color saturation where images and video are involved.

Other software based functions capable of being performed by the DIR include sending text message sending still image sending email or other communication to a user on a remote communications device usually these functions are programmed to occur upon the occurrence of an event. DIR data recordation and storage overwrite may be based on settings that enable newer data to overwrite older data. Additionally the DIR may be programmed to include overwrite protection to prevent overwriting of event video audio or other input data captured by the ICD and transmitted to the DIR device. Preferably the DIR includes capabilities of data search and display data archiving to external device network computer server and combinations thereof data printing data exporting data deletion data playback and combinations thereof. Data playback includes play fast forward rewind or reverse frame by frame step forward or backward pause and combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the system includes a DIR device running software that is capable of automatically upgrading its own software which eliminates user maintenance upgrading or other activity to optimize system performance.

The DIR s capabilities of adjusting settings and or controls for the at least one ICDs includes any functions of the ICDs including but not limited to zoom pan and tilt color brightness contrast saturation sharpness frame rate video and or image size audio rate wireless control data encryption and security data set motion and or audio detection area and or levels set recording set triggers record on command and combinations thereof.

The DIR is preferably capable of connecting directly to a computer or a computer network more specifically connecting to a personal computer via a USB or similar connection and to a network using a network cable or similar connector with the DIR interface being accessible after such connection through a user interface or a web browser respectively and capable of sending data and or alert or warning to a cell phone or computer via a signal or message such as by voice or email.

Also the DIR is capable of performing a backup of the ICD inputs including video to a network a personal computer PC computer readable medium CRM or other storage device. The DIR may be programmed to lock to predetermined ICDs having cameras to maintain integrity of camera signal to DIR device.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the user interface of the ICD inputs on the DIR device include at least one visual cue on the video to tell whether video is being recorded e.g. a red and or green dot is shown on the image. Also preferably the DIR device has a front with indicator lights that match or correspond to these same visual cues. For quality checking purposes similarities such as these provide ease of use for the system user to confirm system functionality upon inspection.

The DIR device is programmable for wireless communication with input capture device including both transmitting data settings controlling instructions and receiving input captured from the ICD like images video audio temperature humidity chemical presence radiation and the like. Thus the DIR device is capable of receiving wireless data from the wireless input capture device s indicating which of the ICDs is active recording data and storing data searching through recorded data transmitting data and instructions to the ICD adjusting ICD settings and or controls communicating with the controller server computer to send and or receive data and other functions depending upon the specifications of the system setup the environment under surveillance and whether or not remote access is used via the controller server computer and Internet.

The DIR device s data recordation and storage capability permit inputs from a multiplicity of ICDs to be associated with each DIR device to be singularly received recorded stored and researched by a remote user from the ICDs. The user can search historically recorded data by date time event type or any other means of selecting a setting or event corresponding to the each or any of the ICDs and the environment under surveillance by the system. Each of the ICDs is capable of individualized settings control by a single DIR device a multiplicity of DIR devices may be controlled and managed by the controller server either within a given surveillance environment or in different locations.

Other components of the DIR device include but are not limited to having a base that may be optionally adjustable for optimized mounting on a surface having a long range MIMO wireless component having a one chip video compression component for resizing video data recompressing it and streaming it having a USB port connectable to a computer or for storage key or removable hard drive for data storage having an ethernet port to connect to a network having RCA video output like the ICDs having 2 or 3 USB ports for data output as well as for a USB based security key having at least one antenna preferably three antennae which may be removable and replaceable having a power control button on the housing having a recessed reset button in the housing accessible on the backside of the housing having a low noise fan having a hard drive for recording inputs and or having at least one preferably a multiplicity of indicators preferably light emitting diodes LEDs that are viewable by a user on the outside of the housing of the DIR device.

By way of example in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the DIR device has ten LEDs on the front of the housing each of which correspond to an individual ICD. Significantly these indicators in particular as LEDs provide content dense visual information with a quick glance from the user. There are five modes that represent ICD status illustrated for one embodiment in the following table Table 1 

The optional remote controller or server computer RSC runs software providing for remote access and control and is separate from the wireless DIR. Users log in with a username and password from any Internet connected PC web enabled cell phone or other Internet enabled or network communicable device to remotely access or review the wireless input or camera video and or image s . The user accesses the system through a user interface operating in connection with a web browser. The RSC communicates directly with the wireless DIR and enables users to remotely configure wireless DIR properties and the ICD properties and preferably to perform any of the functions that are directly performable for any DIR or ICD such functions being set forth in the foregoing. The RSC may provide an electronic commerce function such as providing a user to pay for remote access service. The RSC provides an authorized user remote from the target surveillance environment the option of logging into the system selecting any ICD for monitoring e.g. select any camera input from any DIR print save email image from the input such as a video clip and zoom pan and tilt live video through the DIR similar control and or access activities and combinations thereof.

The RSC functions as a remote monitoring station like a personal computer and is capable of providing a user interface that is accessible through a web browser the RSC is thus any Internet connectable device including computer PDA cell phone watch any network accessible device and the like which provides access for at least one remote user. The at least one remote user is preferably a predetermined authorized user.

Users of the system are preferably authorized whether access is direct or remote. Apart from direct access authorization may also determine levels of access for each user. While all capabilities of the DIR and ICDs are controllable remotely either by the DIR itself or by an Internet communicable device in communication with a server computer that communicates with the DIR s the number and type of devices may be limited based upon authorization level of a user.

The RSC provides for user remote access to live and or recorded audio and or video for any camera on any DVR furthermore control functions permit this user s to adjust and to make changes to any DVR or ICD settings remotely. Also off line archiving is operable via the user selecting to remotely record to the RSC.

In one embodiment of the present invention a method for locking communication between at least one wireless input capture device ICD s and a corresponding digital input recorder DIR or other ICD s either one way and or two way is provided including the steps of providing base system at least one user accessing the DIR via user interface either directly or remotely the DIR and or ICD s searching for signal from the ICD s and establishing communication with them and locking the ICDs to send wireless data exclusively to that DIR or ICD and or the DIR or ICD locking itself for exclusive communication with the locked ICDs thereby providing a secure surveillance system for a target environment.

The ICD is activated when at least one user accesses the DIR software by either launching the software directly or launching the DIR device or by clicking on or click selecting an activation or start button from the user interface or directly on the device for triggering activity steps within the software and hardware system to activate communication including data exchange between predetermined DIRs and their corresponding selected ICDs. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the at least one ICD includes a wireless digital camera and the corresponding DIR is a DVR however one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the functionality applies to a range of ICDs and corresponding DIRs with or without video capabilities in each case. When any of these events occur the DIR initiates checking for signals from prior configured capture devices. If the DIR starts without any prior configured capture devices then the DIR automatically begins searching for wireless signals from capture devices. If the DIR starts with prior configured capture devices and the user wants to add additional devices the user clicks on a search button or click select option within the user interface and the DIR begins searching for wireless signals from capture devices not already configured and communicating with the DIR.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the DIR is operable to identify signal s from the at least one ICD corresponding thereto and the DIR automatically establishes communication with the identified capture device and creates a named representation such as an icon or image with a name that represents the active ICD. Also the DVR is operable to create a named representation for each of the corresponding ICDs associated with that DVR that are identified but not in active communication with the DVR at that time. The non communication status of these devices is denoted in the representation for example by at least one indicator having at least one status as set forth in the foregoing see e.g. Table 1 . Then the wireless digital video camera as ICD is operable to send a still image to the DVR interface for the user to confirm identity of the ICD sending the image. The user may rename the ICD at that time or at a subsequent time. Importantly no additional user steps are required to establish the monitoring set up.

The DVR is further operable to validate the device approval status for communication with the specific DVR and optimizes the wireless signal to the DVR to ensure the greatest information throughput.

Preferably security functionality is operable when a DIR automatically locks a specific ICD such as to permit sending wireless data only to that specific DIR and automatically initiating security on the data stream. The security methods may include cryptographic methods such as digital signing stream cipher encryption block cipher encryption and public key encryption or hardware based encryption in which each device has a hardware device for encryption included. By way of example and not limitation WAP 802.11i AES SSL stream cipher Trojan DES any other type of security protocol and combinations thereof may be used.

Any of the DIRs operable within the system and having at least one ICD associated therewith are further operable to be locked to prevent setting changes or data manipulation from any device apart from the DIR with which each ICD is locked into communication. In one embodiment of the present invention having video cabilities the DVR as DIR upon confirming detection of all the signal s from ICD s associated therewith confirms the establishment of communication with each detected ICD in particular wireless digital video camera and locks the DVR to only communicate with the found device s unless it receives instruction from the user to look for other signal s . The DVR indicates such a locked status for example by displaying a lock indicator on the DVR and or on the ICD to provide an external visual status indication that the ICD s are locked and also sends a lock status signal to an entity outside the present system such as to the RSC and or an alarm system or security software. Once searching and locking is complete the DVR will not accept signals from capture devices that are not locked to the DVR unless directed to search for capture devices by the user by click selecting the search button. Alternatively the system can notify the user of new ICDs that come into communication with the system during operation and or after initial setup has occurred.

ICDs may be removed from operation and or operational communication or interaction with the system. To remove a capture device from the DVR system the user click selects from the user interface on an image and or name that represents the capture device they want removed and then click selects a single removal button or click select option on the user interface. The DIR then removes that capture device from the system.

The present invention provides a method of providing digital image recorder DIR based querying including the steps of providing a system having polling capabilities and digital input security the system having at least one wireless input capture device and at least one DIR providing a computer system or network operable to permit a user to connect to the Internet for accessing at least one of the wireless input capture device s without requiring any additional steps to be performed by the user. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a method of providing digital input recorder DIR based querying includes the steps of 

Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the foregoing description. All modifications and improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of conciseness and readability but are properly within the scope of the claims.

