---

title: Processor array arrangement controlled by control computer
abstract: A processor arrangement having a plurality of processor units and a control computer. Each of the processor units is connected to at least one adjacent processor unit and has one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with an adjacent processor unit. The control computer is connected to one of the processor units, and is configured for exchanging information with the processor unit and for assigning one control element of the plurality of control elements to a device that is electrically connected to the processor arrangement for the control of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07725629&OS=07725629&RS=07725629
owner: Infineon Technologies AG
number: 07725629
owner_city: Neubiberg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061031
---
This application claims priority to German Patent Application Serial No. 10 2005 052 005.7 55 which was filed on Oct. 31 2005 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It is desirable to realize control functions flexibly at variable locations so that it is possible to operate electrical devices using the control functions arranged at these locations.

A processor arrangement having a plurality of processor units and a control computer. Each of the processor units is connected to at least one adjacent processor unit and has one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with an adjacent processor unit. The control computer is connected to one of the processor units and is configured for exchanging information with the processor unit and for assigning one control element of the plurality of control elements to a device that is electrically connected to the processor arrangement for the control of the device.

Control elements for controlling technical devices are usually situated at fixed positions. Examples include say the window raising switch the seat adjustment or the speed display in a vehicle controllers for appliances in a domestic environment and control consoles in industrial manufacturing.

If another user uses these control elements for example following a change of driver in a vehicle or if the operating requirements change for example following the reconfiguration of a production system then it is frequently desirable to be able to alter the position of the control elements.

Dispensing with the transfer of control and display functions In this case at best the user must do without some convenient functionality. In an office or production environment however this also leads to a reduction in productivity as the user needs to find the location of the control and display functions in order to use them or read them. In a vehicle this might necessitate a change in the position or inclination of the seat while in a production hall it might necessitate a walk of several meters.

In some cases a practicable solution is to house the control and display functions in a mobile device which communicates wirelessly or via a wired connection with the technical devices. Examples include infrared remote operation of media appliances television stereo system Bluetooth communication between a PDA personal digital assistant and a printer controlled by the PDA or a laptop for the cable connected diagnosis of malfunctions in an automobile. The disadvantages of this solution however are the high costs for such a type of remote control the risk of losing such a control device typically the exclusivity of control i.e. by one person and the necessity of carrying such a device on the body or in the hand. Within a vehicle for instance it is not usually feasible to control the car radio using an infrared remote control. Free hands are usually required in industrial production environments so control functions should be installed at fixed points.

For the sake of convenience or to meet a requirement for control or display at a plurality of locations the control and display functions can also be provided in multiple instances at a variety of locations. This could be for example a multiplicity of light switches which switch the same lamp or the same group of lamps multiple instances of window raising switches or a fixed cabled HiFi remote control installed on a vehicle steering wheel display elements at a plurality of locations in a production system or also operating elements at different heights for disabled friendly provision in an office or domestic environment. In order to realize this however suitable cabling or radio devices must be installed in each case. Moreover these control and display functions are usually only realized in very limited numbers not only for cost reasons. Specifically an ergonomic fine adjustment in the proximate area is typically not possible because for example ten instances of a particular switch element within reach of a vehicle steering wheel are not provided at different heights for visual reasons and for a clearer layout.

The problem to be solved may be generalized to state that control functions should be transferred to freely selectable positions within a two dimensional multiplicity which may comprise a plurality of individual parts. Examples of such multiplicities are largish surfaces in the human environment such as floors walls and ceilings in premises the interior trim of vehicles the surface of seats instruments or even the facings of industrial production systems.

According to one embodiment of the invention a processor arrangement is provided which has a plurality of processor units each of which is connected to at least one adjacent processor unit and each of which has one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with an adjacent processor unit. The processor arrangement furthermore has a control computer which is connected to one of the processor units and is configured to exchange information with the processor unit and is furthermore configured to assign one control element of the plurality of control elements to a device that is electrically connected to the processor arrangement for the control thereof.

According to another embodiment of the invention a processor arrangement has a plurality of processor units which are electroconductively connected to one another and in each case has one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with one of the adjacent processor units. The processor arrangement is connected to a control computer by means of one of the processor units so that information can be exchanged between the control computer and the processor unit wherein the processor unit connected to the control computer forwards the information received from the control computer to the other processor units of the processor arrangement. The control computer is furthermore configured to assign one particular control element of the plurality of control elements to a device such as a lamp a machine or a complete production system for example which is electrically connected to the processor arrangement so that the device is controlled by means of the assigned control element.

The processor unit network realized by the processor arrangement may be a fixed wired network in which each processor unit has a permanently specified unique address.

The device may be any device that can be controlled by means of electrical signals with it also being possible to use an additional switch element such as a transistor a relay or the like for example to control the device if the output current of the control computer is insufficient to actuate the device. The device to be controlled may be arranged externally to the processor arrangement and the control computer. In concrete terms this means that the device to be controlled may also be physically separate by detaching the electrical wires from the control computer to the device. The device to be controlled may also be integrated in the processor arrangement or in the control computer for example as a light emitting diode integrated on one of the processor units.

In general it is thus achieved that the aforesaid device is controlled by means of a control element which control element can be freely selected from the plurality of control elements present in the processor units in that signals received from the selected control element are forwarded to the device to be controlled. Since the assignment of the control element to the device may be realized by means of software in the control computer the arrangement may be readily adapted to changing conditions and requirements.

When changing the assignment of a control element to the device the user may gain the impression that the control element for example the switch for switching on the electrical device has been shifted from its customary first location to a second location whereas in fact the assignment of the first control element at the first location has been cancelled and a second control element at a second location has been assigned to the device.

From the point of view of the control computer on the one hand it receives signals from all control elements and processor units of the processor arrangement and on the other hand outputs control signals to the device. In particular the control computer is configured to output signals of a given control element as control signals to the device while the signals of the other control elements are not forwarded to the device.

The control computer is for example a conventional PC and may also be realized by any other control means that can be configured to receive the signals of the control elements to forward the signal received from a given control element and to output the signal of the given control element as a control signal to the device. Examples of such control means are microcontroller ASIC and FPGA modules. ASIC stands for Application Specific Integrated Circuit and FPGA stands for Field Programmable Gate Array i.e. a freely programmable logic circuit.

According to one embodiment of the invention the control computer of the processor arrangement has a memory for storing an address of one control element of the plurality of processor units with the address uniquely identifying the control element and the control computer is configured for controlling the device on the basis of information which is input by means of the control element to which the stored control element address corresponds.

For instance the control element used for controlling the device can be assigned to the device by means of information set up in a memory of the control computer. One advantage of this exemplary embodiment is that the processor arrangement can be readily reconfigured so that another control element can be assigned to the device for the control thereof. The information is stored for instance in a non volatile but alterable memory element for example on a hard disk in RAM memory in Flash memory or in EEPROM so that the information may be changed if necessary.

According to another embodiment the control computer has an input unit for inputting the address of the control element.

According to another embodiment the control computer has an input unit and a software application installed on the control computer which enables the address of the control element to be input. In this way the processor arrangement can always be readily adapted to changing conditions especially when these conditions change frequently. In concrete terms the control computer thus serves as a portal for inputting the address of the respective control element.

According to another embodiment of the invention the control computer furthermore has a display unit. The control computer may have a display unit such as a screen for example so that a user of the processor arrangement can obtain an overview of the system and especially the current configuration at any time.

According to another embodiment of the invention one control element of the plurality of processor units is configured for inputting the address of the control element.

With the aid of such a configuration of the processor arrangement the user can input the address directly on the processor arrangement for example by means of tactile inputs so that specific processor units or also regions of processor units fulfill defined functions which other processor units do not fulfill. The input address information is transmitted to the control computer and stored therein. In concrete terms this exemplary embodiment enables a simple configuration of the processor arrangement in that the processor units used for control are selected simply by touching them or existing switching areas on the textile element are shifted .

For instance a particular point on the interior trim of a vehicle may be configured so that when the point is touched the motor for the window pane is activated while most of the remaining surface does not perform this. In this manner it is therefore possible to create any number of switches or displays on the entire networked area and transfer them to any locations. As a result the networked surface becomes a kind of touchscreen on which displays and switching areas may be situated at any location.

According to another embodiment of the invention at least one processor unit has an output element which is the device connected to the processor arrangement.

The device to be controlled may also be integrated as an output element in the processor arrangement that is to say a processor unit. For instance the output element may be a light emitting diode integrated on at least one of the processor units. Such a embodiment of the invention makes it possible to switch on and off light emitting diodes at any positions of the processor arrangement. The processor arrangement may also have a plurality of light emitting diodes or an LCD display element whose display can be controlled in this manner.

According to another embodiment of the invention every processor unit has a plurality of control elements and or output elements.

According to another embodiment a plurality of control elements and or output elements is arranged on each of the processor units. This enables a greater flexibility of the processor arrangement to be obtained. For instance every processor unit can have light emitting diodes with different colors and a switch element which are controlled depending on the actuation of the switch elements of the processor arrangement on the basis of the information stored in the control computer.

According to another embodiment of the invention at least one of the output elements is configured as an actor that is one of the actor types light emitting diode or sound generator and at least one of the control elements is configured as a sensor that is one of the sensor types microphone pressure sensor temperature sensor or smoke sensor.

The processor unit can thus be configured for deployment in a multiplicity of application areas by integrating the respective actors required.

According to another embodiment of the invention the plurality of processor units is configured to determine a distance of the respective processor unit from a reference position by means of exchanging messages with at least one other connected processor unit wherein a first message contains distance information which indicates the distance of a processor unit transmitting the first message or the distance of a processor unit receiving the first message from the reference position.

A self organizing network of processor units can thus be formed which forms the fundamental structure on which exemplary embodiments of the invention are based. It is a particular advantage of the self organizing network that every time the network is initialized it is detected whether the processor units and the electrical connections between the processor units are functioning and the processor arrangement is configured accordingly in that alternative signal paths are automatically used which circumvent failed connections in order to interconnect all functioning processor units to form a processor arrangement. Every processor unit receives a corresponding address during initialization here.

According to another embodiment of the invention the processor units are embedded in film ceramics paper or textile material.

The material to which the processor units are applied can also be adapted to the circumstances of a particular application. For instance a plastic film is particularly suitable for applications having special mechanical requirements since the plastic film can be washed down with water. Ceramics are characterized in particular by high thermal mechanical and chemical resistance but they are relatively heavy and are difficult to adapt to uneven surfaces for example curvy surfaces. Paper such as paper wall coverings for example is light and can also be affixed to uneven surfaces. A textile material such as carpet is particularly suitable for applications in houses and vehicles. In concrete terms the networked surface that is to say the film carpet tiled area or the textile fabric becomes a kind of touchscreen on which displays and switching areas may be situated at any location.

According to another embodiment of the invention the processor units are populated differently with actors and or sensors.

In principle this network or this group of networks is homogeneous that is to say populated in the same way but this does not preclude certain display elements or sensors from not being available everywhere but only at specific processor units. In order to save costs therefore particularly expensive processor units need only be integrated at a few points in the processor arrangement.

According to another embodiment of the invention the processor arrangement is configured as a floor covering wall covering or ceiling covering.

Overall therefore an extensive flat sensor and or display field is produced which may be applied to or inserted into the abovementioned surfaces. In particular for example the interior trim of a vehicle may also comprise a plurality of such flat sensor and or display fields for instance made of a plurality of textile pieces. A plurality of such networks that is to say planar elements may be electrically interconnected and controlled by means of a common portal of the control computer. The interior trim of a car may thus comprise a plurality of planar elements which simplifies the manufacture of such planar elements and makes them less expensive.

According to another embodiment of the invention the processor arrangement may be arranged in premises the interior trim of vehicles surfaces of instruments or facings of industrial systems which affords the processor arrangement a wide range of applications.

1. Freely selectable locations for control or display functions within a for instance self organizing fault tolerant network of uniform processors which may be embedded in film ceramics textiles or other materials.

2. According to another embodiment locations for control or display functions can be freely selectable within a group of for instance self organizing fault tolerant networks of uniform processors which are managed via a common central control unit portal .

3. According to another embodiment locations for control or display functions can be freely selectable within a for instance self organizing fault tolerant network of uniform processors which are populated with different sensor or display elements. The free selection of the locations may be restricted here to elements that can physically fulfill the desired function.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention enable control functions to be realized flexibly at variable locations so that it is possible to operate electrical devices using the control functions arranged at these locations. In other words free transfer of control functions within networks is enabled.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for controlling a device by means of a processor arrangement electrically connected to the device wherein the processor arrangement has a plurality of processor units which are connected in each case to at least one adjacent processor unit and which have in each case one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with an adjacent processor unit in each case as well as a control computer which is connected to one of the processor units. The method comprises the exchange of information between the control computer and the processor unit connected to the control computer as well as the assignment of one control element of the plurality of control elements to the device.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for controlling a device by means of a processor arrangement electrically connected to the device wherein the processor arrangement has a plurality of processor units which are connected in each case to at least one adjacent processor unit and which have in each case one control element and at least one communications interface for providing a data communications link with an adjacent processor unit in each case and wherein the processor arrangement furthermore has a control computer which is connected to one of the processor units the control computer having a memory for storing an address of one control element of the plurality of processor units with the address uniquely identifying the control element. The method comprises the exchange of information between the control computer and the processor unit connected to the control computer as well as the assignment of one control element of the plurality of control elements to the device for controlling the device wherein the device is controlled on the basis of information which is input by means of the control element to which the stored control element address corresponds.

In this way the desired control function can be defined at any point within the network or the connected group of networks. Depending on preference and necessity the functions may also be present in any number for example a plurality of identical light switches at specific but freely selectable points on a textile electronic wallpaper of a living room. In particular the points may also be largely defined in the proximity of a user for example shifting of the fuel indicator by a few centimeters in a vehicle depending on the size of the driver with the resolution depending on the distance of the processor units or the connected sensors and actors respectively. Another example is a child lock which grows in line with requirements for instance blocking all functions for toddlers blocking the door opener for adolescents but releasing air conditioning and window raising at positions suitable for children. Since the control and display function is configured electronically and can be stored as a profile in the control computer once a configuration has been defined it can be readily reproduced again. For instance it is possible to store a separate profile for every vehicle driver so that all displays switches and sensors can be set up for him in a few moments. Another example is changing a workpiece to be produced on a production system for which the control functions are passed to the appropriate points for the controller. Since the network is self organizing and extremely fault tolerant assembly is easy and operating reliability is high as simple failures or cable breaks do not adversely affect operation.

According to the processor arrangement has a planar element or a plurality of mutually independent planar elements and a control computer which is connected to each of the planar elements . Textile materials tiles or films may be used as planar elements . For example illuminated symbols can be displayed at different positions of the planar elements which indicate to the user the position of a switch element. A symbolic hand may be displayed as the illumination symbol for example and in particular a plurality of different illumination symbols may be displayed on the planar elements which symbols accordingly indicate a plurality of switch elements.

The illumination symbols or more generally the display elements and the sensor elements that is to say the input elements are connected to the control computer by means of a connection line so that they form a self organizing network for example and exchange messages therewith. Connection lines comprise electroconductive lines that are suitable for transmitting the supply voltage and the information and signals exchanged between the various components of the network. In a textile planar element for example electroconductive threads can be used.

The control computer is also connected for example to an external appliance or external device. Examples of such appliances and devices are a lamp a motor or a complete production system. It is thus possible to control external appliances by inputting instructions by means of the input elements of the planar element and to display information on the planar element .

A switch element is assigned in each case to the respective illumination symbol displayed so that a device connected to the control computer can be actuated by pressing the illumination symbol .

The control computer is furthermore configured to display the illumination symbols at different positions of the planar elements if the configuration of the processor arrangement is changed. For example as shown in the first illumination symbol on the first planar element can be displayed later the second illumination symbol on the first planar element and then the third illumination symbol on the first planar element . According to one embodiment of the invention when one illumination symbol is displayed the respective previously displayed illumination symbol is no longer displayed so that a user looking at the planar element gains the impression that the illumination symbol jumps from one position to the next.

In all cases however it remains ensured that the motor can be actuated by pressing the respective illumination symbol displayed.

This sequential display sequence is represented in in that only the outline is displayed of illumination symbols that are no longer illuminated while an illumination symbol that is illuminated is represented as filled in. Since each of the planar elements is connected to the control computer this movement of the illumination symbols is not limited to one planar element but can be continued as represented in on a second planar element . For example following the third illumination symbol on the first planar element the single illumination symbol on the second planar element is displayed and then the first illumination symbol on a third planar element and then the second illumination symbol on the third planar element . The second illumination symbol on the third planar element is illuminated for as long as is required and in is represented as filled in. The fact that a plurality of planar elements may be connected to the control computer and thus act as a single planar element has the particular advantage that it is possible to arrange a single planar element on different surfaces in each case with all planar elements being controllable as a single entity by the control computer .

In particular an illumination symbol displayed on the planar elements which indicates the position of a switch element for example can be realized by means of light emitting diodes. Alternatively it is also possible for display elements that are suitable for displaying information for example the operating status ON OFF MALFUNCTION of the motor to be arranged on the planar elements . The switch element which is a sensor can be realized as a microphone a pressure sensor a temperature sensor or a smoke sensor so that the motor is activated on the basis of a detected sound level pressure signal temperature signal or a combustion gas concentration.

If pressure sensors are used as input elements during initialization mode a display element can be shifted from a first position to a second position by swiping a hand over the pressure sensors which metaphorically corresponds to the so called drag and drop principle. For this the control computer follows the track of the swiping action in that the addresses of pressure sensors in the processor arrangement which detect an applied pressure are registered so that the display element represented at the position at which an applied pressure is first detected is displayed at the respective positions at which contact is subsequently detected. If no further movement is detected the assignment of the first pressure sensor at the first location to the motor is cancelled and a second pressure sensor at a second location corresponding to the last registered position that is to say the endpoint of the swiping action is used to actuate the motor .

Put more precisely in each case a position of a first pressure sensor which detects an applied pressure is read out and it is determined which first sensor element at or in the vicinity of this position is displayed. A second position of a second pressure sensor which subsequently detects an applied pressure is then read out and the position is determined of the closest identical second display or sensor element situated at or in the vicinity of the second position.

In operator mode the control computer then outputs information that was originally output based on the actuation of the first pressure sensor based on the actuation of the second pressure sensor whereas in general an actuation of the first pressure sensor is now ignored. This means that the user can switch the motor on and off by pressing on the planar element at the position of the second pressure sensor while pressing at the position of the first pressure sensor no longer has any effect.

Alternatively the control computer may have an input device such as a mouse or a keyboard for example so that the positions of display and sensor elements can be set up directly on the control computer . The control computer has a suitable control program for this purpose.

In particular the processor arrangement may be arranged with such a planar element or a plurality of such planar elements on a large machinery plant in industry and a control console for the machinery plant may be formed by means of the display and input elements. It is then particularly advantageous that the control console can be represented on every surface of the machinery plant so that a user of the machinery plant can control it from the position most favorable for him. Alternatively only especially important operating elements e.g. ON OFF EMERGENCY STOP increase rate decrease rate may be represented on the most favorable surfaces for the user in each case.

Such a planar element may also be arranged on a vehicle surface for example in a car so that the driver of the car can tailor the position of operating elements precisely to his requirements for example to the size of his body.

Furthermore such a planar element may also be secured on the ceiling of a passenger aircraft for example and have operating elements for passengers such as light on off or a call button. This exemplary embodiment has the advantage that whenever new seating is installed in the passenger cabin using the control computer it is possible to select the processor units of the plurality of processor units that correspond to the new seating for realizing the switch function so that every passenger can easily reach the operating elements from their seat.

In the following exemplary embodiment sensor elements and display elements are controlled so that virtual switches which correspond to the above mentioned illumination symbols are defined within the self organizing network. In particular shows for example an irregularly shaped planar element e.g. a textile fabric or an irregular film on which three areas are highlighted so that a user can see the positions of the control elements. To highlight the three areas the planar element may be equipped for example with a network arranged in a textile fabric and light emitting diodes which allow a spot of light to shine through the textile fabric which indicates the location of the control elements to the user. As already illustrated the positions can be set up by means of hand movements over the planar element .

If one of the three virtual switching areas is now touched with the hand a sensor message is transmitted from the virtual switching area to the control computer that is to say the central control unit which is represented in the lower part of and is electroconductively connected to the switching areas by means of connection lines . Depending on the application the desired function can then be triggered from there for instance the movement of the window pane in a vehicle. The networked planar element may have any sectional form here. In addition the planar element may have curvatures to the extent that they are technically possible for example by fitting an electronic textile into a curved vehicle frame in order to form the interior trim.

In all possible locations for transferable switches that is to say virtual switching areas are represented with the textile planar element corresponding to the planar element represented in . Also represented in is a control computer which is connected to the textile planar element by means of connection lines . Representation of the device to be controlled which is connected to the control computer was omitted in .

As can be seen therefrom the control elements that is to say the virtual switches can be represented at a multiplicity of positions with active control elements being represented by a filled hand while inactive control elements are represented by an outlined symbolic hand. The distances between two adjacent control elements is determined by the distance of the two processor units not represented on which the two control elements are arranged in each case.

The processor units are generally electroconductively connected to the respective adjacent processor units . For electroconductive connection conductive threads which are woven into the textile material are used in textile materials for example. Two adjacent processor units are connected by means of a plurality of electroconductive connection lines the number of which depends on the requirements for the processor units . According to two adjacent processor units are connected by three connection lines in each case. It may however occur that the connection between two adjacent processor units is faulty.

Faulty that is to say broken connection lines are therefore also represented in . These cases are represented in in that all three connection lines represented between the two adjacent processor units are broken although in reality in most cases only a single connection line is broken. Owing to the principle of fault tolerant self organization however the network operates just as fault tolerantly as in as perceived by the user as long as every processor unit can establish a connection for data communication to the control computer by means of at least one electroconductive connection line .

To establish an electroconductive signal connection that is to say a data communications link between a processor unit and one of the adjacent processor units every processor unit has at least one bidirectional communications interface not represented so that information can be exchanged with the adjacent processor unit. In particular every processor unit is additionally configured for forwarding the information between two other processor units which are adjacent to the processor in each case and which have a data communications link between themselves and the processor unit . It is thus possible to transmit information from the control computer to each of the plurality of processor units for example if the processor unit has an actor which corresponds to the device to be controlled and which is connected to the control computer . In other words the device which is controlled by means of the control computer can be arranged on one of the plurality of processor units of the processor arrangement . For example a first processor unit of the processor units may have a light emitting diode which is controlled by means of a pressure sensor of a second processor unit of the plurality of processor units with the first and the second processor unit being different processor units . Information for example control signals for controlling a device can furthermore be forwarded to the control computer .

One switch location per processor unit is represented in this exemplary embodiment. In other exemplary embodiments however it is also possible to control a plurality of sensors and or actors per processor unit that is to say the position network represented in would be denser or it is also possible to equip only a selection of processor units with one sensor and or one display that is to say the network represented in would be less dense or would exhibit gaps.

In other words shows an example for an automatically generated routing tree via which it is possible to address every processor unit and which branches metaphorically speaking outward from the root corresponding to the control computer to each individual one of the plurality of processor units .

The processor unit has a plurality of communications interfaces with which in each case a data communications link can be established to each of the adjacent processor units not represented here and to the control computer . The data communications link is realized by means of conductive threads which may be woven into the textile planar element. The processor unit furthermore has a microprocessor a pressure sensor and a light emitting diode . By means of the communications interfaces the microprocessor is configured to receive data from the adjacent processor units and to forward it to the control computer . Furthermore the data which is registered by means of the pressure sensor is forwarded to the control computer . The processor unit is also configured for forwarding the data from the control computer to the adjacent processor units. The pressure sensor and the light emitting diode serve for example as sensor or actor for inputting and outputting data. Apart from the pressure sensor and the light emitting diode the processor unit can have a microphone a temperature sensor or a smoke sensor or a sound generator respectively.

The control computer has input output ports for establishing a data link to the processor unit and to the motor a processor with a non volatile memory a display device and an input device.

The processor is configured to receive detected data from processor units and to assign a control element such as the pressure sensor for example to the motor for the control thereof. The memory is non volatile but is rewritable and contains as information an address of a control element with the address uniquely identifying the particular control element being used to control the motor . In other words the processor is configured to receive the data which is detected by all control elements of the plurality of processor units with the motor being controlled on the basis of the data detected by the particular control element having the address stored in the memory . Since the address is stored in a rewritable memory the address can be changed in a simple manner which means that another control element is then used to control the motor .

The control computer furthermore has an input device for example a mouse and or a keyboard for inputting the address of the control element which is then stored in the memory . It is also possible to connect a display device such as an LCD display to the control computer for displaying the current configuration of the processor arrangement.

The control computer is for example a conventional PC and may also be realized by any other control circuit that can be configured to receive the signals of the control elements to forward the signal received from a given control element and to output the signal of the given control element as a control signal to the motor . Examples of such control circuits are microcontroller ASIC and FPGA modules. ASIC stands here for Application Specific Integrated Circuit and FPGA stands for Field Programmable Gate Array i.e. a freely programmable logic circuit. The motor is not described here in greater detail and can be assumed to be a conventional electric motor wherein the motor stands only as an example for all electrically controllable devices such as a lamp a production system etc. for example which can be controlled by means of the processor arrangement.

Although exemplary embodiments of the present invention and their advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be applied hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. For example it will be readily understood by those skilled in the art that many of the features functions processes and materials described herein may be varied while remaining within the scope of the present invention. Moreover it is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention to the specific embodiments of the features functions process means method or steps mentioned in the description. As the average person skilled in the art will readily appreciated from the disclosure of the present invention according to the present invention it is also possible to use features functions processes means methods or steps which already exist or will be developed in future and which essentially fulfill the same object or essentially obtain the same result as the respective embodiments described herein. Accordingly it is intended that the appended claims include such features functions processes means methods or steps within their scope.

