---

title: Wireless network apparatus storing authentication information in multiple formats and areas and authentication method of the same
abstract: A wireless network apparatus including an authentication information storage unit to store first authentication information for network communication, an authentication information converting unit to generate second authentication information by converting the stored first authentication information according to an predetermined authentication method, a nonvolatile storage unit to store the generated second authentication information, and an authentication processing unit to conduct an authentication based on the second authentication information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549291&OS=08549291&RS=08549291
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08549291
owner_city: Suwon-Si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060622
---
This application claims the benefit of Korean Application No. 2005 69004 filed Jul. 28 2005 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

An aspect of the present invention relates to a wireless network apparatus and an authentication method of the same and more particularly to a wireless network apparatus and an authentication method that reduces power consumption when authentication is conducted.

With the development of communication and network technologies network environments have shifted from wired networks such as coaxial cable or optical cable networks to the wireless networks using signals of different frequency bands. Accordingly wireless terminals hereinafter referred to as wireless network apparatuses each comprising a wireless interface for wireless communications and processing a variety of information to thereby conduct a special function have been developed. To comply with this development wireless network technologies have appeared to enable these wireless network apparatuses to efficiently communicate with each other via wireless networks.

Currently there are two types of existing wireless networks an infrastructure mode wireless network and an ad hoc mode wireless network.

In the ad hoc mode wireless network data may be transceived directly between the wireless network apparatuses A N that belong to a single wireless network without the need of an Access Point AP . There is no infrastructure or structure to the wireless network. Usually one or more network apparatuses A N can exchange bi directional traffic.

In the case of the infrastructure mode wireless network an access point AP is provided to authenticate a wireless network apparatus that desires to become part of the wireless network. As an example the authentication may be made based on the Media Access Control MAC address allocated to the wireless network apparatus. The MAC address is a hardware address used to identify each of the wireless network apparatuses which is applied to an Ethernet based network and set when the concerned wireless network apparatus is manufactured.

However the authentication based on the MAC address of the wireless network apparatus is only possible when the wireless network apparatus is powered on. As a result this increased the power consumption of the wireless network apparatus.

Korean Unexamined Patent Publication No. 10 2004 0053992 discloses a method for supporting the mobility of a wireless Local Area network LAN terminal in order to ensure that the wireless LAN terminal may move from one access point to another access point when an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN data line is used as a communication line between a switching system and several access points. However the invention is directed to maintaining a uniform quality of sound when a wireless LAN terminal moves from a basic service set of one access point to a basic service set of another service set. As such there is a need for a method to reduce the power consumption of a wireless LAN terminal.

An aspect of the present invention is to provide a wireless network apparatus and an authentication method of the same that reduces power consumption by storing authentication information of a wireless network apparatus in a nonvolatile storage medium.

These and or other aspects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following disclosure.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a wireless network apparatus including an authentication information storage unit to store first authentication information for network communication an authentication information converting unit to generate second authentication information by converting the stored first authentication information according to an predetermined authentication method a nonvolatile storage unit to store the generated second authentication information and an authentication processing unit to conduct an authentication based on the second authentication information.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided an authentication method of a wireless network apparatus including generating second authentication information for network communication by converting the first authentication information according to a predetermined authentication method storing the generated second authentication information in nonvolatile storage medium and conducting an authentication based on the second authentication information.

Additional aspects and or advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.

Also the wireless network apparatus further includes an authentication information extracting unit to extract at a user s request the first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit a nonvolatile storage unit and an interface unit to communicate with an external device.

It is assumed in the exemplary embodiment of the present invention that MAC address is allocated to each wireless network apparatus when it is manufactured as authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit . It is possible that authentication information is stored in the authentication information storage unit according to an authentication method. A Media Access Control MAC address is composed of 6 bytes 48 bits and the first 3 bytes are managed by IEEE and the last 3 bytes are managed by the manufacturer of a wireless network apparatus.

The authentication information converting unit may convert first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit according to the authentication method used when the wireless network apparatus conducts an authentication for network communication.

Where a user conducts the authentication of the wireless network apparatus the user may request first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit via the authentication information request unit . At this time at a request of a user a predetermined application may extract first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit . The authentication information converting unit may convert the first authentication information according to an authentication method of the wireless network apparatus .

In case of digital multimedia management a MAC address uses 128 bits for the authentication. Accordingly the authentication information converting unit converts a 48 bit MAC address to 128 bits by adding a predetermined series of bits to the first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit .

It is assumed that the authentication information converting unit may add a predetermined string to the first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit . When the authentication of the wireless network apparatus is conducted the conversion of the first authentication information by the authentication information converting unit may be omitted if authentication is possible through the first authentication information.

The nonvolatile storage unit is a nonvolatile memory cell that electrically writes or erases data and stores the second authentication information generated in the authentication information converting unit even when the power of the wireless network apparatus off. The nonvolatile storage unit is used because the nonvolatile storage unit consumes less power than a magnetic disk storage medium and has fast access times like a magnetic storage unit.

Also the nonvolatile storage unit stores the second authentication information generated by the authentication information converting unit . The authentication of the wireless network apparatus may be made based on the first authentication information stored in the authentication information storage unit however the nonvolatile storage unit may store the first authentication information. Accordingly the first authentication information and the second authentication information may be similar information or different.

At this time the second authentication information may be stored in a secure area that the nonvolatile storage unit selectively allows external access to for example a tamper resistant module TRM but the present invention is not limited to this. Accordingly the second authentication information is protected from physical tampering.

The authentication processing unit may conduct the authentication of the wireless network apparatus based on the second authentication information stored in the nonvolatile storage unit . For example when the wireless network apparatus powers on a kernel may store the second authentication information in a global variable by reading the second authentication information from the nonvolatile storage unit . The application may call an application programming interface API to read the second authentication information stored in the global variable. The kernel sends the second authentication information and the authentication processing unit conducts the authentication of the wireless network apparatus based on the second authentication information sent from the kernel. If the authentication processing unit uses the first authentication information when the authentication of the wireless network apparatus is conducted the authentication processing unit may use the second authentication information sent from the kernel after converting it via the authentication information converting unit .

The interface unit may be a wired interface based on for example USB or IEEE 1394 or a wireless interface based on for example Bluetooth. When an external device needs the authentication of the wireless network apparatus and the second authentication information the interface unit may use the second authentication information stored in the nonvolatile storage unit without powering on the wireless network apparatus . Because information such as the MAC address may be used without powering on the wireless network apparatus it is possible to reduce the power consumption of the wireless network apparatus.

Hereinafter a method for authenticating a wireless network apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described in detail.

In operation the authentication information converting unit generates second authentication information by converting the first authentication information extracted according to the authentication method of the wireless network apparatus . Because the MAC address used in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is composed of 48 bits the MAC address cannot be used in a digital multimedia management system that uses 128 bits. Accordingly the authentication information converting unit may generate the second authentication information from the first authentication information by adding a predetermined series of bits such as a string to the extracted first authentication information.

Also when a conduction of the authentication of the wireless network apparatus using only the first authentication information is possible the authentication information converting unit does not convert the extracted first authentication information.

In operation the nonvolatile storage unit stores the second authentication information generated by the authentication information converting unit . Because the nonvolatile storage unit is composed of nonvolatile memory cells the second authentication information is retained even when the wireless network apparatus powers off.

Because the generated second authentication information is stored in a secure area of the nonvolatile storage unit such as a TRM and external access is selectively allowed security of the second authentication information can be ensured.

In operation the application uses the API to read the second authentication information. The kernel sends the second authentication information stored in the global variable in response to the application s call in operation . The application conducts the authentication of the wireless network apparatus based on the second authentication information sent from the kernel in operation .

The second authentication information and the first authentication information may be similar or different. For example if the authentication method of the wireless network apparatus uses the number of bits of the first authentication information the second authentication information may be identical with the first authentication information because the first authentication information is not additionally converted. If the authentication method of the wireless network apparatus uses a different number of bits with than the number of bits of the first authentication information the second authentication information may be different from the first authentication information because the first authentication information has been converted.

The second authentication information used in the authentication method of the wireless network apparatus may be used when the wireless network apparatus is on or off. Because the second authentication information may be transmitted to an external device through a communication between the external device and the interface unit the second authentication information stored in the nonvolatile storage unit may be used by the interface unit as well as the authentication of the wireless network apparatus . Further because the wireless network apparatus and the authentication method of the same may use the second authentication information stored in the nonvolatile storage unit in authentications and other situations without powering on the wireless network apparatus the need to power on the wireless network apparatus whenever the authentication is conducted is eliminated.

The unit indicates a software component or a hardware component such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . The module performs a particular function and may be included in an addressable storage medium or it may be configured to play one or more processors. Accordingly modules may include components such as software components object oriented software components class components and task components processes functions attributes procedures subroutines segments of a program code drivers firmware microcode circuits data databases data structures tables arrays and parameters. Components and features provided by the modules may be combined into a smaller number of components and features or they may be divided into a greater number of components and features.

As is described above the wireless network apparatus and the authentication according to example embodiments of the present invention produce one or more of the effects described below.

A wireless network apparatus stores authentication information which is required for network communication in a nonvolatile area and authentication may be conducted even when a user does not power on the apparatus thereby being capable of increasing the apparatus s efficiency.

Authentication information stored in a nonvolatile area of the wireless network apparatus may be transmitted to an external device via a predetermined interface and the apparatus does not need to be powered on to do so thereby being capable of reducing power consumption.

Various components of the wireless network apparatus as shown in including for example an authentication information converting unit an authentication processing unit and an authentication information extracting unit can be implemented in software or hardware such as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or printed circuit board PCB . As such it is intended that the processes described herein be broadly interpreted as being equivalently performed by software hardware or a combination thereof. Software modules can be written via a variety of software languages including C C Java Visual Basic and many others. The various software modules may also be integrated in a single application executed on various types of wireless cards such as PCMCIA cards PCI cards USB card. These software modules may include data and instructions which can also be stored on one or more machine readable storage media such as dynamic or static random access memories DRAMs or SRAMs erasable and programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs and flash memories magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape and optical media such as compact discs CDs or digital video discs DVDs . Instructions of the software routines or modules may also be loaded or transported into the wireless cards or any computing devices on the wireless network in one of many different ways. For example code segments including instructions stored on floppy discs CD or DVD media a hard disk or transported through a network interface card modem or other interface device may be loaded into the system and executed as corresponding software routines or modules. In the loading or transport process data signals that are embodied as carrier waves transmitted over telephone lines network lines wireless links cables and the like may communicate the code segments including instructions to the network node or element. Such carrier waves may be in the form of electrical optical acoustical electromagnetic or other types of signals.

As described from the foregoing the present invention advantageously provides a wireless network apparatus for performing authentication even when the apparatus is not turned on so as to reduce power consumption while increasing efficiency.

While there have been illustrated and described what are considered to be example embodiments of the present invention it will be understood by those skilled in the art and as technology develops that various changes and modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the true scope of the present invention. Many modifications permutations additions and sub combinations may be made to adapt the teachings of the present invention to a particular situation without departing from the scope thereof. For example the components of the wireless network apparatus as shown in including for example an authentication information converting unit an authentication processing unit and an authentication information extracting unit can be implemented in a single hardware or firmware stalled at an existing wireless card to perform the functions as described. In addition the present invention is applicable for use with all types of wireless communication devices and wireless networks including for example wireless personal area networks PANs wireless local area networks LANs such as Wi Fi networks Bluetooth ultra wideband networks and wireless metropolitan area networks MANs and compatible wireless application protocols usable for wireless transmission as specified by IEEE 802.11 a b and or g standards Bluetooth standards other emerging wireless technologies such as Wi Max in which service coverage areas can be extended up to 30 miles or even mobile cellular networks supporting a wide range of coverage. In addition wireless network apparatuses A N can also be mobile stations such as phones or personal digital assistants PDAs . Furthermore alternative embodiments of the invention can be implemented as a computer program product for use with a computer system. Such a computer program product can be for example a series of computer instructions stored on a tangible data recording medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM or fixed disk or embodied in a computer data signal the signal being transmitted over a tangible medium or a wireless medium for example microwave or infrared. The series of computer instructions can constitute all or part of the functionality described above and can also be stored in any memory device volatile or non volatile such as semiconductor magnetic optical or other memory device. Furthermore both the software modules as described in connection with can also be machine readable storage media such as dynamic or static random access memories DRAMs or SRAMs erasable and programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMS and flash memories magnetic disks such as fixed floppy and removable disks other magnetic media including tape and optical media such as compact discs CDs or digital video discs DVDs . Accordingly it is intended therefore that the present invention not be limited to the various example embodiments disclosed but that the present invention includes all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

