---

title: Dynamic pricing models for digital content
abstract: Dynamic pricing models which facilitate efficient distribution of digital content online. Particular implementations of the invention dynamically base pricing for digital content on relatively current, aggregated information regarding Internet user behavior and preferences, such as search query and/or page hit logs. Some implementations of the present invention are directed to pricing digital content based on the inherent properties of digital content and the mechanics of how electronic files are typically distributed on the Internet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076148&OS=09076148&RS=09076148
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09076148
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061222
---
Intellectual Property Rights IPRs from their inception have existed to preserve for owners of original ideas and unique creative works underlying works the ability to restrict and set the terms for the use sale reproduction and distribution of such underlying works. Legal enforcement of IPRs against those who infringe or misappropriate underlying works however is usually regarded as a course of last resort based on the transactional costs and time associated with such enforcement. More typically the owners of IPRs to underlying works prefer to develop markets for such works which 1 make the creation reproduction or alteration of the underlying works technically difficult or expensive 2 facilitate volume distribution of the underlying works and 3 enable price points for the underlying works that incentivize legitimate uses of the works and dissuade unpermitted uses. Taking historical examples in the world of copyrights printing presses were relatively expensive for all except volume producers of books and other printed materials. Only those publishers who developed good distribution channels and popular printed works were successful. Wax record etchers were perhaps not so expensive to obtain but during the prime era of their usage one needed access to the talent who would produce original recorded content for the metallic master from which multiple wax copies were then made which was difficult to accomplish for all but well known record labels. For those who could afford the means for producing quality books and records and cultivate a big enough market of consumers to recoup their investments and earn a profit came the ability to do so by charging attractive prices for these underlying works.

The advent of digital content and the Internet has undermined the traditional assumptions surrounding the creation use and distribution of underlying works by IPR owners. The tools for creating quality digital content such as digital cameras video recorders and audio mixing equipment have become relatively inexpensive thus enabling many more people to be creators of quality underlying work. Similarly the Internet enables an easy and inexpensive way for digital content creators to distribute and offer for sale their underlying works. The tremendous ease by which digital content can be reproduced altered and then distributed on the Internet creates on the one hand an inexpensive network through which underlying works can be offered for sale and use on a mass scale. On the other hand however both digital content creation tools and the Internet severely erode IPR owners ability to restrict and set desirable terms for the reproduction alteration and distribution of their underlying works. Traditional IPR owners particularly who are used to obtaining high financial returns on the sale use and distribution of their underlying works have been reluctant to make such works readily available in digital media and on the Internet because they fear an inability to track and recoup a proper value for all the uses to which their underlying works may eventually be put.

Mechanisms are needed that facilitate the creation of marketplaces for digital content which better incentivize IPR owners to make their underlying works of digital content available for sale and distribution. Such mechanisms can take multiple forms including technologies to inhibit or detect unpermitted uses reproductions and distributions of digital content DRM . There are many DRM solutions in the marketplace. But DRM by itself has had only a limited impact on facilitating efficient marketplaces for the sale and distribution of digital content. Another such mechanism is an online repository for centrally collecting and managing the distribution of digital content as well as the IPRs associated with such content. One such mechanism is disclosed in currently pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 560 320 filed on Nov. 15 2006.

The present invention is directed to dynamic pricing models which facilitate efficient distribution of digital content online. Particular implementations of the invention dynamically base pricing for digital content on relatively current aggregated information regarding Internet user behavior and preferences such as search query and or page hit logs. Some implementations of the present invention are directed to pricing digital content based on the inherent properties of digital content and the mechanics of how electronic files are typically distributed on the Internet. Such pricing models may employ 1 baseline values derived from the inherent features of the digital content and 2 real time data from algorithmic search engines and other Internet sources of aggregated information regarding user preferences and contextual user behavior to continually price and reprice digital content within parameters set by predetermined rides and algorithms. Drawing from one or more sources of relatively current aggregated information about Internet user preferences and behavior the disclosed dynamic pricing models provide an improved means of facilitating efficient marketplaces for the distribution of digital content and better realization of the value attributable to such content.

Particular implementations of the invention dynamically base pricing for digital content on relatively current aggregated information regarding Internet user behavior and preferences such as search or query logs. Some implementations of the present invention are directed to pricing digital content based on the inherent properties of digital content and the mechanics of how electronic files are typically distributed on the Internet. Such pricing models may employ 1 baseline values derived from the inherent features of the digital content and 2 real time data from algorithmic search engines and other Internet sources of aggregated information regarding user preferences and contextual user behavior to continually price and reprice digital content within parameters set by predetermined rules and algorithms. Drawing from one or more sources of relatively current aggregated information about Internet user preferences and behavior the disclosed dynamic pricing models provide an improved means of facilitating efficient marketplaces for the distribution of digital content and better realization of the value attributable to such content.

The present invention can be implemented in a variety of manners. In some particular implementations one or more of the following events or processes can occur. In some implementations a user may upload a digital content object to a network addressable system such as a media aggregation site an example being Yahoo r s Flickr photo sharing system . The user or other entities may configure one or more tags for association with the digital content object. The network addressable system stores the tags and related information in association with the uploaded content object. Users may access the network addressable system and uploaded content through for example a client application such as a browser. In other implementations a user may access a dynamic pricing system and specify one or more tags and possibly other information to receive a price without uploading the content. In some implementations of the invention the dynamic pricing functionality described herein can be accessible as a web based service presenting one or more application programming interfaces APIs that other systems can use to receive a dynamically computed price on demand for a given digital content object.

Particular implementations of the invention operate in a wide area network environment such as the Internet including multiple network addressable systems. Network cloud generally represents one or more interconnected networks over which the systems and hosts described herein can communicate. Network cloud may include packet based wide area networks such as the Internet private networks wireless networks satellite networks cellular networks paging networks and the like.

As illustrates a particular implementation of the invention can operate in a network environment comprising dynamic pricing system content hosting site and search system . Although illustrates the foregoing systems as separate systems the functionality represented by each system may be combined into other systems. Furthermore the functionality represented by each depicted system may be further separated. Still further implementations of the invention may operate in network environments that include multiples of one or more of the individual systems and sites disclosed herein. In addition other implementations may operate in network environments where one or more of the systems described herein have been omitted. Client nodes are operably connected to the network environment via a network service provider or any other suitable means.

Dynamic pricing system is a network addressable system that hosts dynamic pricing functionality. Dynamic pricing system in one implementation comprises one or more physical servers and user behavior data store . The one or more physical servers are operably connected to computer network via a rooter . The one or more physical servers host functionality that is operative to compute prices for digital content objects. In one implementation the functionality hosted by the one or more physical servers may include web or HTTP servers FTP servers and the like. In some implementations of the invention the one or more physical servers are accessible to remote systems as a web service using Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP HTTP or other suitable protocols.

User behavior data store stores aggregated information regarding Internet user behavior and preferences. Structurally content data store connotes a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular implementations content data store may be implemented by any suitable physical system including components such as database servers mass storage media media library systems and the like.

A variety of implementations are possible. For example while illustrates dynamic pricing system as a separate system this functionality may be implemented as an integrated system including search system and or content hosting system . For example as illustrates content hosting and pricing system may include content hosting and dynamic pricing functionality. In another implementation dynamic pricing system may access data from remote systems such as search system for data used in computing a price. In yet other implementations search system may reside within the same domain or be collocated with dynamic pricing system . In another implementation one or more other databases containing relatively current aggregated information regarding Internet user behavior and preferences such as those containing up to date user survey feedback on various topics can be accessed and used in connection with search system to generate data used by dynamic pricing system in computing a price.

Content hosting system is a network addressable system that hosts one or more digital content objects accessible to one or more users over a computer network. In one implementation content hosting system may be an informational web site where users request and receive identified web pages and other content over the computer network. Content hosting system may also be an on line forum or blogging application where users may submit or otherwise configure content for display to other users. Content hosting system may also be a content distribution application such as Yahoo Music Apple iTunes and any one of various podcasting servers that displays available content and transmits content to users. In another implementation content hosting system may be a media aggregation or sharing system such as the Flickr photo sharing site YouTube video sharing site and similar variants.

As illustrates content hosting system may comprise one or more physical servers and a content data store . Content data store stores content as digital content data objects. A content data object or content object in particular implementations is an individual item of digital information typically stored or embodied in a data file or record. Content objects may take many forms including text e.g. ASCII SGML HTML XML images e.g. jpeg tif and gif graphics vector based or bitmap audio video e.g. mpeg or other multimedia and combinations thereof. Content object data may also include executable code objects e.g. games executable within a browser window or frame podcasts etc. Structurally content data store connotes a large class of data storage and management systems. In particular implementations content data store may be implemented by any suitable physical system including components such as database servers mass storage media media library systems and the like. As discussed herein content data store may also store tags and other information in association with corresponding digital content objects.

Search system is a network addressable resource that provides search results responsive to queries transmitted from remote hosts. In particular implementations search system provides one or more links to content or other network resources in search result listings. Search system may provide search results including links to sponsored and or unsponsored resources. Search system in some implementations includes one or more physical servers and data stores . Search system in some implementations includes at least two types of servers where both types have HTTP HTTPS SSL FTP and or other functionality that allows remote access over a network. A first server type may be an account management server . The account management server operates in connection with account management data store . The account management data store contains advertiser account information. General purpose browsers or special purpose client applications running on client nodes may be used to access advertiser account information stored in account management data store . An advertiser may through account management server and an account residing on the account management data store participate in a competitive bidding process with other advertisers. An advertiser may bid on any number of search terms relevant for example to the content of the advertiser s web site.

A second server type may be a search engine server . A search engine server executes one or more search engine programs that permit users upon navigating to the search engine web server URL or sites on other web servers capable of submitting queries to the search engine server to enter queries to search for network resources of interest. In a particular implementation the search engine server may generate a search result list that includes at least in part relevant entries obtained from and formatted by the results of a bidding process conducted in connection with the account management server . The search engine server may generate a list of hypertext links to documents or other resources that contain information relevant to search terms entered by a user. The search engine server transmits this list in the form of a web page to the network user where it is displayed on a browser or other client application running on a client node .

In particular implementations search engine server operates in connection with a search data store including search listing records used to generate search results in response to user queries. In addition search engine server may also be connected to the account management server . One or more of the search listings in some implementations correspond to a search term bid pairing and contains information to conduct the online competitive bidding process. In some implementations each search listing comprises a search term a web site description a URL a bid amount and a title. The search term may comprise one or more keywords which may be common words in English or any other language . Each keyword in turn comprises a character string. The search term is the object of the competitive online bidding process. The advertiser selects a search term to bid on that is relevant to the content of the advertiser s web site. Ideally the advertiser may select a search term that is targeted to terms likely to be entered by searchers seeking the information on the advertiser s web site although less common search terms may also be selected to ensure comprehensive coverage of relevant search terms for bidding. The web site description may be a short textual description of the advertiser s web site and may be displayed as part of the advertiser s entry in a search result list. The search listing may also contain a title of the web site that may be displayed as the hyperlinked heading to the advertiser s entry in a search result list. The URL contains the Uniform Resource Locator address of the advertiser s web site. When the user clicks on the hyperlink provided in the advertiser s search result list entry the URL is provided to the browser program. The browser program in turn accesses the advertiser s web site through a redirection mechanism discussed herein. The URL may also be displayed as part of the advertiser s entry in a search result list.

A bid amount may be a money amount bid by an advertiser for a listing. This money amount is deducted from the advertiser s prepaid account or is recorded for advertiser accounts that are invoiced for each time a search is executed by a user on the corresponding search term and the search result list hyperlink is used to refer the searcher to the advertiser s web site.

Higher bids generally receive more advantageous placement on the search result list page generated by the search engine server when a search using the search term bid on by the advertiser is executed. In a particular implementation the amount bid by an advertiser comprises a money amount that is deducted from the account of the advertiser for each time the advertiser s web site is accessed via a hyperlink on the search result list page. A user clicks on the hyperlink with a computer input device to initiate a retrieval request to retrieve the information associated with the advertiser s hyperlink. In some implementations each access or click on a search result list hyperlink is redirected to the search engine web server to associate the click with the account identifier for an advertiser. This redirect action in one implementation accesses account identification information coded into the search result link before accessing the advertiser s URL. The account identification information is recorded in the advertiser s account along with information from the retrieval request as a retrieval request event. The information obtained through this mechanism matches an account identifier with a URL and allows for account debit records to be maintained. Beyond Pay Per Click schemes other monetization schemes are possible such as Pay Per Impression.

In particular implementations the search result lists also includes non paid or non sponsored listings that are not placed as a result of advertiser bids and are generated by an algorithmic search engine. In one implementation the non paid search result listings follow or are provided adjacent to the paid or sponsored advertiser listings on the search results page.

When a user accesses a search query page provided by the search engine server and executes a search request the search engine server in one implementation generates and displays a search result list where the canonicalized entry in search term field of each search listing in the search result list matches the canonicalized search term query entered by the remote searcher. The canonicalization of search terms used in queries and search listings removes common irregularities of search terms entered by searches and web site promoters such as capital letters and pluralizations in order to generate relevant results. However alternate schemes for determining a match between the search term field of the search listing and the search term query entered by the remote searcher are well within the scope of the present invention. For example string matching algorithms known in the art may be employed to generate matches where the keywords of the search listing search term and the search term query have the same root but are not exactly the same e.g. computing vs. computer . Alternatively a thesaurus database of synonyms may be used by the search engine server so that matches may be generated for a search term having synonyms. Localization methodologies may also be employed to refine certain searches. For example a search for bakery or grocery store may be limited to those advertisers within a selected city zip code or telephone area code. This information may be obtained through a cross reference of the advertiser account database stored in account management data store .

Search result list entries may also show the rank value of the advertiser s search listing. The rank value is an ordinal value preferably a number generated and assigned to the search listing by search engine server . In some implementations the rank value is assigned through a process that establishes an association between the bid amount the rank and the search term of a search listing. The process gathers search listings that match a particular search term sorts the search listings in order from highest to lowest bid amount and assigns a rank value to each search listing in order. The highest bid amount receives the highest rank value the next highest bid amount receives the next highest rank value proceeding to the lowest bid amount which receives the lowest rank value. In some implementations only the top N ranked search listings are provided in the first page of search results returned to the user.

Search system also maintains one or more logs of user activity. Search system for example maintains query logs and page hit logs. As an example of a specific data collection operation suppose that thousands of users connect to a search server and perform a search using the phrase local weather . The search server might respond to that phrase by presenting the user with a results page including links to pages relating to weather and specifically local weather where locality might be inferred from user preferences or other methods . The search server logs the search query itself and possibly the time of the query in a query log and the clicked through pages from the results page in a page hits log. A page is a clicked through page when a user notes a reference to that page on the results page and selects that reference from the results page. In many HTTP systems the effect of those actions is that the user s browser or other HTTP client requests the referenced page from the server indicated in the reference and the referenced server responds to the request with the referenced page. As discussed below maintaining these statistics in a time based format allows for time windowed and or trend analysis of the search log data.

To allow search system to track user clicks the search links of a results page in one implementation include URLs that correspond to search system but also include encoded information that maps to a URL of an underlying network resource such as an advertiser web site a document data store etc. Accordingly in one implementation search system generates encoded URL identifiers for one or more URLs in a page of search results and adds these encoded URL identifiers as a parameter to a redirection URL that identifies search system . For example the encoded URL identifier may be one or more strings and be included in the following example URL http search.yahoo.com  rdrct UJASf4 SIG 11aygd. In one implementation search system stores the encoded URL identifier in association with the corresponding link for later use. After generating one or more encoded URLs for inclusion in the search results search system may transmit the results to a requesting client node.

In particular implementations redirection generally refers to transmitting a message from a server to a client application for example that causes the client application to access another server or resource without intervention or action by the end user. Redirection can be accomplished in a number of different ways. For example in connection with HTTP redirection messages can be implemented using refresh meta tags such as

As discussed in more detail below search system is operative to analyze its query and or page hit logs to compute measures of interest in one or more of keywords topics and or categories. Dynamic pricing system may map a content object to such keywords topics and or categories determine a measure of interest and dynamically compute a price for the content object.

Client node is a computer or computing device including functionality for communicating over a computer network. A client node can be a desktop computer laptop computer as well as mobile devices such as cellular telephones and personal digital assistants. A client node may execute one or more client applications such as a web browser to access and view content over a computer network. In particular implementations the client applications allow users to enter addresses of specific network resources to be retrieved. These addresses can be Uniform Resource Locators or URLs. In addition once a page or other resource has been retrieved the client applications may provide access to other pages or records when the user clicks on hyperlinks to other resources. In some implementations such hyperlinks are located within the web pages and provide an automated way for the user to enter the URL of another page and to retrieve that page. The pages or resources can be data records including as content plain textual information or more complex digitally encoded multimedia content such as software programs or other code objects graphics images audio signals videos and so forth.

The networked systems described herein can communicate over the network using any suitable communications protocols. For example client nodes as well as various servers of the systems described herein may include Transport Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP networking stacks to provide for datagram and transport functions. Of course any other suitable network and transport layer protocols can be utilized.

In addition hosts or end systems described herein may use a variety of higher layer communications protocols including client server or request response protocols such as the HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and other communications protocols such as HTTP S FTP SNMP TELNET and a number of other protocols may be used. In addition a server in one interaction context may be a client in another interaction context. Still further in particular implementations the information transmitted between hosts may be formatted as HyperText Markup Language HTML documents. Other structured document languages or formats can be used such as XML and the like.

In some client server protocols such as the use of HTML over HTTP a server generally transmits a response to a request from a client. The response may comprise one or more data objects. For example the response may comprise a first data object followed by subsequently transmitted data objects. In one implementation for example a client request may cause a server to respond with a first data object such as an HTML page which itself refers to other data objects. A client application such as a browser will request these additional data objects as it parses or otherwise processes the first data object.

Mobile client nodes may use other communications protocols and data formats. For example mobile client nodes in some implementations may include Wireless Application Protocol WAP functionality and a WAP browser. The use of other wireless or mobile device protocol suites are also possible such as NTT DoCoMo s i mode wireless network service protocol suites. In addition the network environment may also include protocol translation gateways proxies or other systems to allow mobile client nodes for example to access other network protocol environments. For example a user may use a mobile client node to capture an image and upload the image over the carrier network to a content site connected to the Internet.

The client and server host systems described herein can be implemented in a wide array of computing systems and architectures. The following describes example computing architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in the location server whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

As discussed below in one implementation the operations of one or more of the physical servers described herein are implemented as a series of software routines run by hardware system . These software routines comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communication interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interlace between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is the Windows 95 98 NT XP operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems LINUX operating systems and the like. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the server functionalities described herein may be implemented by a plurality of server blades communicating over a backplane.

In a particular implementation a user content uploader may access content hosting system over computer network or a LAN within the domain of content hosting system with a client node to upload content. In one implementation a special purpose client application may be used to select content and upload one or more selected content objects to content hosting system . In another implementation client computer includes a browser or other client application that parses and displays Hyper Text Markup Language HTML pages transmitted from content hosting system . In one implementation content hosting system may transmit a page based interface including functionality allowing a user to select content and upload it to content data store . Using the page based interface a content uploader may identify a data file embodying the content and cause the data file to be uploaded to content data store .

The content uploader may also specify one or more tags and possibly other attributes of the content object. For example a user may upload the content in connection with a digital rights management engine see below that incorporates the configuration of tags into the content submission workflows. The tags associated with the content can vary considerably. The tags can relate to the subject of the content subject location etc. the circumstances involving creation of the content date author time image capture settings etc. and the like. Other data can be associated with the content. For example the tags need not be entered by the user who uploaded the content. Rather the tags or other information may be entered by other users after accessing and viewing the content. In addition one or more tags can be automatically extracted based on analysis of the content. For example the digital file including the underlying content such as an image or video may also include one or more tags in reserved data fields. Other information can include the date and time when the content was uploaded. In addition if the content includes text content hosting system for example can execute a programmatic process to extract one or more tags from the content. Still further content may also be tagged with one or more geographical locations or geo tags.

Other tags or attributes of the digital content object can also be recorded such as a device that captured the data of the object e.g. such as the camera used to capture an image quality characteristics of the content e.g. pixel resolution color resolution etc. the author or creator of the image and the like.

The dynamic pricing models disclosed herein operate in connection with one or more sources of information capturing relatively current aggregated information about Internet user preferences and behavior. Algorithmic search engines such as that offered by Yahoo Inc. search.yahoo.com register millions of key word search queries each day. The greater majority of Internet users regularly rely on search engines in order to locate Web sites information and commercial items of interest. Search engine operators therefore because they capture millions of user queries have access to rich stores of data regarding which subject matter is generating more or less interest at a given point in time. Query logs maintained by search engines for example can include one or more entries including a query string and a time stamp. Query log entries can contain additional attributes as well such as the search segment e.g. images local shopping etc. specified by users. Such query logs can be aggregated to yield statistics regarding a variety of information including the frequency of the query strings one or more keywords in the query strings the concepts or categories of the query and the like. Additionally search engine operators capture real time information regarding those Web sites of interest to which users navigate once a listing of relevant search results are returned in response to given queries user behavior . Thus data generated by search engines concerning user query and navigation patterns can provide extremely probative useful information regarding the aggregate desires and preferences of the Internet user population en large for obtaining or accessing certain types of information including graphical or other rich digital content. Such aggregated information provides an excellent means for understanding the marketplace demands of users for different products services and items of information and entertainment including digital content. This aggregated information reflecting ever shifting user preferences can be beneficially used to price dynamically supplies of discrete digital content objects related to such preferences. The incorporation of such current or virtually real time user preference information enables digital content owners to offer pricing for content objects that will allow them to better maximize commercialization volumes and or realization of value from discrete content objects.

In one particular embodiment the dynamic pricing model disclosed herein makes recourse to query and other logs of algorithmic and or sponsored search engines as the primary source of aggregated information reflecting user preferences. In other implementations the dynamic pricing model disclosed herein accesses post processed information derived from analysis of query and or page hit logs of algorithmic and or paid search engines. It should be appreciated however that any repository of relatively current information reflecting user preferences can be used to provide the aggregated information for dynamically setting pricing for content objects. For example such information sources can include databases containing regularly updated survey response data or those containing regularly updated actual sales figures for commerce objects closely related in theme or otherwise to offered digital content objects e.g. sales volume data for DVDs starring Celebrity X can be factored into pricing of digital photos of Celebrity X .

In one implementation dynamic pricing system may be configured to operate in a variety of modes. For example in one implementation dynamic pricing system operates relative to a given digital content object in connection with an initial price point or baseline price. The initial price point or price parameter can either be assigned arbitrarily by the content owner or distribution agents of the content owner or otherwise derived and assigned algorithmically based on general marketplace pricing or other relevant conditions. For example dynamic pricing system may compute an initial baseline price for a digital content object. A user may accept this baseline price or override this suggestion and input a desired baseline price. Still further as to the price for a given content object the dynamic pricing system may be constrained by a minimum and or maximum price configured by a user or algorithmically determined by the dynamic pricing system . The disclosed model for dynamically pricing digital content can be employed in all phases of content pricing including establishing a baseline price. In one implementation the dynamic pricing scheme operates in connection with baseline pricing Initial Price Point IPP and a minimum and maximum price parameter PP for each offered content object.

In marketplaces where thousands or millions of content objects are offered including many closely similar objects offered by different content sources determining baseline pricing can be a difficult undertaking. Undifferentiated fixed prices for similar content objects may over price or under price objects given quality and overall appeal differences among such similar objects. Offerors of content in such marketplaces whether content owners or marketplace proprietors have been ill equipped and challenged to establish baseline pricing for their objects relative to other objects of similar content. Online music proprietors such as Apple Computer Inc. have resorted to fixed pricing for single song music files 0.99 per item . Others such as Real Networks make all of their content available for a monthly subscription fee. In both of these models content objects are treated as somewhat fungible and given either a single set purchase price or pooled such that all objects are made available during a certain time period for a fixed bulk price.

These pricing approaches fail to offer content owners the ability to charge unique prices for individual content objects which may be of greater or lesser quality and overall appeal. Similarly these pricing approaches fail to offer individual content objects to consumers at prices that more closely reflect actual demand. Certain objects will be under priced and sold at a price point below what consumers are willing to pay thus depriving the content owner recovery of full profit margins on sales of that object. Certain objects will be overpriced and sold at a price point above what consumers are willing to pay thus depriving the content owner of better sale volumes for that object. In marketplaces including original content offered by amateurs where the quality of offered similar objects will vary even more drastically and there is no brand recognition for either the content object itself or its offeror the existing pricing models are even more unsuitable.

Different sets of pricing algorithms can be applied to the aggregated measures of user interest to be processed for dynamic pricing in connection with a given digital content object. For any content object it may be desired to offer several price tiers depending on the various licensed uses to be permitted for that object or whether it will be offered for sale syndication or via other commercialization mode. Thus not only can different initial price points or minimum maximum price parameters be generated for a single content object but the manner in which that pricing is set to adjust dynamically can be algorithmically customized for each commercialization mode in which the object will be offered. To the extent that such tiered pricing takes into account different IPRs associated with a content object the algorithmic functions for pricing each such IPR tier may be factored at different stages in the process for instance right before simultaneously with or right after a real time price point has dynamically been set based on user preference data. In each such case the algorithmic functions for each IPR tier are made part of the overall dynamic price generation and the result is several distinct dynamic price outputs for each content object.

In particular implementations the present invention discloses methods for establishing initial pricing for digital content objects. It represents an improvement over existing pricing approaches by well known online proprietors of digital content by allowing object specific price differentiation which is important in markets with large inventories and highly fluctuating demand. Moreover such object specific price differentiation enables marketplaces for amateur created digital content to establish suitable and unique baseline IPPs and PPs for individual content objects. The disclosed method for establishing baseline IPPs and PPs can be employed to set fixed prices and used without any additional dynamic pricing models. In one embodiment however the disclosed method can be used to establish IPPs and PPs in a dynamic pricing system.

Many inherent features of a particular object of digital content can help to determine its baseline market value relative to other similar content objects. Two pictures of the Taj Mahal may vary in quality in respect of lighting picture composition weather conditions at the time each picture was taken and quality of equipment used to take each photograph ratable visual quality objective production or rendered quality . Consider too that a picture taken of a famous movie celebrity by a professional photographer for eventual release by that celebrity s publicist or movie studio will mostly always be more valuable than a photo taken by an adoring fan all other circumstances being equal source of content . Thus in devising a system for generating dynamic pricing for numerous digital content objects it is useful to establish baseline values deriving from the inherent attributes of the content object itself. Thereafter context specific data can better be taken into account to generate an actual dynamically changeable market price r the content object.

In a system that establishes values for the inherent features attributes of individual content objects and then compares these values with those of other content objects for the purpose of generating differentiated IPPs and PPs it is useful to have an algorithm driven scoring system.

Not all content creators content owners or content proprietors are created equal in terms of popular brand appeal and how this in turn can affect initial pricing ability including premium pricing opportunities. A variety of methods can be devised to algorithmically assign values to or score individual content objects depending on the identified source of that content object. As an attribute parameter source in the present baseline pricing model can include all or any of a content object s creator owner or proprietor. Because the popularity and brand appeal of creators owners and proprietors of content vary over time the scoring values for each such source would be adjustable.

Taking a marketplace for digital photos it is useful to understand the many ways in which a single photo may be coded or tagged such that it can retrieved by interested parties who may use any of several different search criteria to locate objects matching their interests. Generally any given photo may be tagged with key words or phrases that reflect high levels of generality to very specific details about that photo. For example a given photo may be tagged man man smiling man smiling outdoors African American man smiling outdoors Denzel Washington smiling outdoors. Scoring for subject matter can he based on the background popularity of each key word associated with a digital content object as well as on the relatively popularity of key phrases that may be formed using such key words.

There are a variety of ways in which the technical production or rendered quality of a digital content object can be determined automatically by an application for managing electronic files. Information about the device or devices producing the digital content objects the file size and format bit rates compression rates code rates pixel resolution color scale its fully rendered production quality etc. can be used to score the technical production quality of a content object.

To the extent that the digital content to be priced will be made subject to a ratings system this information may also be factored into attribute pricing. Certainly peer ratings of quality are subjective and can be considered not truly inherent to a content object. To the extent however they are closely associated to each rated content object such ratings can provide another unique measurable and relatively unbiased criterion with which to differentiate between content objects.

There are other features inherent or closely related to digital content objects that can be used in establishing baseline pricing for them. For instance in some marketplaces it may be deemed useful to factor in specific IPR restrictions associated with a content object in its scoring. Such a marketplace may be one where the content object will not be offered at different pricing tiers based on various use cases but instead will be offered at only one price that takes into account the mix of permitted and restricted use cases associated with that object.

Many different techniques for generating and assigning attribute scores to content can be devised. Such attribute scoring can be simplistic or it can make recourse to more sophisticated algorithms depending on the amount of attribute types within a given attribute category the weight to be assigned to each attribute type and how the attribute types assigned within each attribute category are to be cross correlated. illustrates a pricing method according to one particular implementation of the invention. In one implementation dynamic pricing system when requested can collect one or more attributes of a digital content object and compute component scores based on the attributes . As discussed above the component scores may correspond to source subject matter peer reviewed quality technical reproduction quality or other factors. Dynamic pricing system may weight each component score and compute an aggregate score . The aggregate score may be an input along with other attributes of the digital content object to a context driven pricing algorithm . The context driven pricing algorithm in one implementation is operative to compute a price by identifying a category for the digital content object where the category has a minimum and maximum price parameter. For example there may be different categories one or more including several sub categories for photographic images animations videos short stories news articles and the like.

The content driven pricing algorithm computes a price for a digital content object within the minimum and maximum price parameters for the identified category based on the aggregate score. In one implementation the aggregate score can be normalized to a range e.g. between 1 to 100 where the value of the aggregate score determines the extent to which a price level above the minimum price parameter will be assigned to a digital content object. Other implementations are also possible. For example the context driven pricing algorithm may assign the minimum price parameter if the aggregate score falls below a threshold. Still further one or more of the component scores may determine the minimum and maximum price parameters to be used. For example if the source component score crosses a threshold indicating it is a professional or popular source a different usually higher set of minimum and maximum price parameters can be selected. The computed price can be returned to a user for acceptance or override. The computed or user configured initial price point can be stored in association with the digital content object or maintained by dynamic pricing system in association with a unique identifier for the digital content object. Furthermore the context driven pricing algorithm may also return the maximum and minimum pricing parameters to the user for acceptance or override. These parameters may also be stored in association with the content object.

A content hosting system such as content hosting system may access dynamic pricing system to retrieve a current dynamically computed price for a digital content object. A variety of implementations are possible. For example content hosting system may access dynamic pricing system each time a user requests a given digital content object. In some implementations content hosting system may cache the dynamically computed price received from dynamic pricing system . Content hosting system may re use this price without accessing dynamic pricing system until some condition is satisfied e.g. expiration of a threshold period of time and the like . In other implementations the HTML pages or other resources provided by content hosting system may include embedded calls to dynamic pricing system which when executed cause a client browser application to request a price for an identified content object.

Dynamic pricing system may incorporate a variety of different pricing algorithms. The following illustrates one particular dynamic pricing algorithm for didactic purposes. As illustrates in one implementation the dynamic pricing system responsive to a request for a price for a digital content object identifies one or more tags and possibly other attributes associated with the digital content object . In one implementation dynamic pricing system receiving a resource locator for the digital content object may access a content data store to access the tags or attributes of the digital content object. In other implementations the tags or attributes of the digital content object may be passed as parameters in the request. In one implementation dynamic pricing system may operate as a network addressable service. In one implementation a content hosting site may embed in web pages that display a price an API call to dynamic pricing system. In one such implementation the web page may include an embedded code module such as JavaScript that when downloaded and activated within the context of a browser application makes a call to dynamic pricing system for a price. In another implementation a server of the content hosting site may access dynamic pricing system when constructing a web page that includes a price for a digital content object.

Dynamic pricing system may then access one or more data stores of Internet user preference or behavior information against the identified tags . In one implementation one of the data stores of Internet user behavior information are query logs of a search engine such as search system . In one particular implementation the query and page hit logs can be analyzed to determine a statistical measure of interest in a given term topic and or category. For example search system can implement the activity monitoring and interest scoring functionality disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 146 416 which is incorporated by reference herein. Search system may use this technology to compute and maintain statistical measures or scores of interest so called buzz values in terms topics and or categories. In addition the search system may also track changes or trends in buzz values. For example a buzz value may represent the level of interest of a subject such as a movie a person product place or event cultural phenomena etc. and change in buzz value might be indicative of a trend. The buzz value in one particular implementation can be calculated as the number of unique users searching for that subject anywhere on a portal site or set of portal sites or viewing a page of content relevant to that subject anywhere on the portal site or set of portal sites. A buzz value might also be calculated without regard to whether each event that is counted is originated by a unique user.

The buzz values can be used to identify cultural trends track interest in specific brands measure the effectiveness of marketing campaigns etc. For buzz events that are purchase events the count by which a bin is incremented might be a function of purchase amount so that purchases of larger amounts have more of an effect on a product s buzz than purchases of smaller amounts. In one particular implementation the buzz value associated with a particular term or category is the number of users searching with that term or viewing a page related to that term divided by a sum of users searching where the sum can be the sum of users searching over all subcategories in a category sum of users searching over all terms in a category or the sum of all users searching anywhere on the site. The latter normalization is useful to factor out time based increases in traffic such as weekday weekend patterns seasonal patterns and the like. A normalization factor might be applied to all terms being compared so that the buzz values are easily represented. For example if there are four terms in a category 100 total unique user hits on those four terms 25 30 40 and 5 respectively out of one million total unique users a normalization factor of 100 000 might be applied so that the buzz values are 2.5 3 4 and 0.5 instead of 0.000025 0.00003 0.00004 and 0.000005. Normalization can also be used when determining the buzz surrounding one company or product against an index of other companies or products within a particular market segment or product category.

In some implementations trend values can also be computed. For example a trend value can be computed based on the change between a buzz value for a given term topic or category from one day to the next. Other trend values based on longer or shorter periods can also be computed. In some cases the buzz values for a subject might he a leading indicator for electronic commerce transactions relevant to that subject. For example the buzz for the term widget might rise and be followed by increased on line purchases of widgets. Such information may be useful in the dynamic pricing mechanisms described herein.

In one implementation dynamic pricing system or search system may map the digital content object to one or more of a term topic and or category having a statistical measure of interest and use the mapped values to estimate a measure of interest in the digital content object . For example in one implementation the tags associated with a content object can be mapped to a topic. The buzz value of the topic and or the trend of the buzz value for the topic may be used in computing a price for a digital content object. In another implementation each tag of a digital content object can be mapped to a respective term having a buzz value. The respective buzz values can be aggregated and optionally weighted prior to aggregation to compute a composite score. Trend values can also be weighted and aggregated in a similar manner.

The dynamic pricing system can use a variety of algorithms to compute a price given one or more statistical measures of interest . In one implementation the dynamic pricing system may use an algorithm that considers the initial price point IPP of a given content object and the change in buzz values between the time when the IPP was initially computed and the time of the request. In one implementation the algorithm can be characterized by the following equation 

In another implementation a base line or nominal price for a given content object can be used in a dynamic pricing algorithm. In such an implementation the equation for CP above can omit buzz t as a divisor and replace IPP with a baseline or nominal price. In yet another implementation the trend of the computed buzz value can also be incorporated into the dynamic pricing algorithm. For example the following algorithm can be used 

In one implementation dynamic pricing system may parse and weight different types of query targets pursued within an algorithmic search engine. Most popular search engines today allow targeted searching for segmented search results such as news articles images video etc. Thus for the purpose of gauging aggregated user interest in particular persons objects topics or information it is possible to look at the popularity of a given key word search query topic or category across all targeted search segments. However it may also be desirable to develop a more nuanced assessment of how relatively popular a particular query is within each search segment or to weight and aggregate buzz and or trend values for search queries across two or more search segments e.g. images video local shopping news etc. . If for instance the primary target market for a particular content object is news media producers then the content offeror may care most about the popularity of related queries in the news search segment in one or more popular search engines. In addition if the digital content object is a video a buzz value from the video and or image search segment may be weighted more highly or used exclusively.

Taking a more detailed example the overall relative popularity of Celebrity X may be determined by looking just at the combination of queries focusing on or related to Celebrity X in all segments of one or more search engines. These cross segment results can beneficially be used as factors in the disclosed dynamic pricing model. However for certain content objects for which a more fine tuned assessment of popularity may be desired in order to determine dynamic price points for that object it is possible to compare and weight any differences in search query frequency within two or more search segments. The scenario modeled in takes a 10 week snapshot of events in Celebrity X s life and the output consumption of information about Celebrity X as reflected in user search queries or other captured expressions of user interest in 3 segments news movies and video. Assume for this snapshot that a new movie about Celebrity X is released at the end of week 2 but Celebrity X begins appearing more frequently on talk shows two weeks prior to the release and then even more so in the week of release and a few weeks thereafter. So too news features mentioning or focusing on Celebrity X begin to increase right before the movie release and then moreso following the movie release. After two weeks in release the movie begins to decline in popularity at the box office. So too news articles and talk show appearances featuring Celebrity X also decline. However sometime in week 8 a scandal about Celebrity X s alleged extramarital activities breaks causing a sharp spike in news coverage. The scandal also serves to boost movies sales somewhat as well as demands for Celebrity X s appearance on talk shows.

The plot points illustrated in are meant to illustrate scores weighted or otherwise that may be assigned to targeted search queries within news movie and video search segments within one or more algorithmic search engines. This approach assumes that talk show portions featuring Celebrity X are offered online as viewable video clips which are searchable in the video segment of popular algorithmic search engines. Alternatively the news featured and movie featured plot points may both be drawn from query popularity in the equivalent algorithmic search engine segments while the talk show featured plot points are derived from a specialized database of viewership ratings for various television programs. If a content hosting site were to offer digital photos of Celebrity X using dynamic pricing to a general set of consumers it might factor in the average level of query popularity for Celebrity X across all search segments. If however the target market for digital photos of Celebrity X was to be news media producers then our dynamic pricing might factor in only query popularity of Celebrity X in the news search segment. Taking the latter approach as indicated in the pricing for Celebrity X digital photos would be slightly higher and more so during the period following the onset of Celebrity X s scandal.

In a particular implementation as in the disclosed dynamic pricing system which employs search engine data or other relatively current user preference data would be used to price digital content that is managed and transacted within a rights management application RME as disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 580 320 which is incorporated by reference herein. As a tool for centrally collecting and managing the distribution of digital content a RME allows for the consistent cataloging and tagging of each content object being managed. There are many advantages to using a digital content RME in connection with a dynamic pricing model. A RME can facilitate establishing baseline pricing or price parameters for digital content objects that is based on inherent attributes of the content objects. Such attributes such as content source subject matter and rated quality are more easily catalogued for discrete content objects and compared as between various content objects in an RME that would capture such information at the time content is initially submitted. An RME can also facilitate cataloging tagging and coding content objects using a consistent methodology. In addition to facilitating baseline pricing using content object attributes an RME also facilitates DRM packaging for content objects and transactions for each content object under a range of rights and usage cases. Each of these additional advantages and the information about content objects that they generate can be factored in to the disclosed dynamic pricing model. It should be appreciated however that the disclosed dynamic pricing model can be used for pricing digital content even without the use of a RME or related application. Even if the rights around a digital content object are not carefully secured and centrally managed it may still be transacted using dynamic pricing models based on relatively current user preference data.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with HTML and HTTP the present invention can be used in connection with any suitable protocol environment. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

