---

title: Metal borate synthesis process
abstract: The carboxyl borate represents a novel liquid that upon reaction with lithium halide produces a lithium ion electrochemical device electrolyte upon dissolution in an aprotic solvent mixture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07820323&OS=07820323&RS=07820323
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07820323
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060907
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention generally relates to a process for the synthesis of metal borates and in particular to a process for preparing a metal borate through the reaction of boric acid and a carboxylic acid.

Rechargeable lithium ion batteries have been commercially available for well over a decade. Lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF is commonly employed as the electrolyte salt in lithium ion batteries. Lithium hexafluorophosphate is characterized by solubility in aprotic solvents that results in an electrolyte characterized by high electrical conductivities and electrochemical stability. However lithium hexafluorophosphate has limited applicability in future lithium ion batteries owing to a lack of thermal stability. In solution lithium hexafluorophosphate dissociates into lithium fluoride and phosphorus pentafluoride which are then free to cationically polymerize electrolyte solvents. Additionally lithium hexafluorophosphate releases hydrofluoric acid upon contact with moisture. Lithium hexafluorophosphate hydrolysis not only impedes safe handling but also leads to the degradation of transition metal oxides often utilized in electrochemical cells as a cathode material.

Considerable efforts have been made to develop alternative conducting salts to lithium hexafluorophosphate. Representative of these efforts is U.S. Pat. No. 4 505 997 that describes the use of lithium bis trifluoromethylsulfonyl imide and lithium tris trifluoromethylsulfonyl methanide salts for use in battery electrolytes. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 874 616 and 6 319 428 describe the use of lithium perfluoro amide salts as battery electrolytes. While these salts display high anodic stability and form solutions having high electrical conductivity with organic carbonates these same salts suffer the limitation of not adequately passivating aluminum. This is problematic since aluminum is a commonly used current collector for battery cathodes. Additionally these salts tend to be comparatively difficult to produce and purify.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 210 830 and 6 423 454 describe perfluoro or partially fluorinated alkyl fluorophosphates as lithium ion battery electrolytes. While the thermal stability and hydrolysis resistance of these compounds as lithium salts are superior to lithium hexafluorophosphate these salts are comparatively difficult to produce and as such significantly add to production costs for lithium ion batteries containing these salts. Barthel et al. Journal of Electrochemical Society 147 2000 21 teaches lithium organoborates as an electrolyte salt. These salts have met with limited acceptance owing to the inability to withstand high anodic potentials and the formation of unstable triorganoboranes.

DE 19829030 C1 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 516 describe lithium bisoxalatoborate as a battery electrolyte salt. Xu et al. Electrochemical and Solid State Letters 5 2002 A26 note that lithium bisoxalatoborates readily passivate aluminum show good thermal stability yet have met with limited acceptance owing to the poor solubility of bisoxalatoborate in conventional lithium ion battery organic solvents.

Zhang et al. Journal of Solid State Electrochemistry 7 2003 147 teach the use of lithium tetrafluoroborate as a lithium ion battery electrolyte salt demonstrating good cycling performance at low temperatures. However lithium tetrafluoroborate suffers from comparatively low ionic conductivity which limits battery power density.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 407 232 and Patent Application Publication Nos. 2002 0022181 2002 0081496 and 2003 0100761 teach a class of cyclic compounds some of which are lithium salts which appear to offer lithium ion battery salts having good overall properties. However the process of synthesizing such cells is inherently dangerous and inefficient.

A process for preparing a metal borate includes forming a carboxyl borate through the reaction of boric acid with a carboxylic acid followed by reaction of the resulting carboxyl borate with a halide salt.

An operative electrolyte includes a compound produced by an inventive process and a synergistic mixture of aprotic solvents. An inventive electrolyte is operative to produce an electrochemical device.

The present invention has utility in the production of lithium ion electrolytes as well as novel polydentate ligands. According to the present invention a large number of conventional and novel metal borates are formed through a process involving a carboxyl borate intermediate. Through a robust and simple synthetic process electrochemically stable lithium salts in particular are produced that have solubility in a variety of aprotic solvents conventional to the battery industry and provide high ionic conductivity over a variety of temperatures. As a result inventive metal borates are operative to extend and or improve the life and or performance of electrochemical devices such as battery cells capacitors electrolytic cells and supercapacitors.

According to the present invention as used herein and unless noted to the contrary an inventive compound is inclusive of the carboxyl carbon and a fluorinated inventive compound is one in which at least one proton is replaced by fluorine.

Representative diacids illustratively include C Calkyl dicarboxylic acids C Cfluoroalkyl dicarboxylic acids C Ccycloalkyl dicarboxylic acids C Cfluoroalkyldicarboxylic acids C Caryl dicarboxylic acids and C Cfluoroaryl dicarboxylic acids and derivatized forms thereof wherein the derivatives included therein include keto ester ether thioether and secondary amine. Specific examples of diacids operative herein illustratively include oxalic succinic cyclohexane 1 1 dicarboxylic acid and perfluorosuccinic acid.

Triacids operative herein illustratively include C Calkyl dicarboxylic acids C Cfluoroalkyl dicarboxylic acids C Ccycloalkyl dicarboxylic acids C Cfluoroalkyldicarboxylic acids C Caryl dicarboxylic acids and C Cfluoroaryl dicarboxylic acids and derivatized forms thereof wherein the derivatives included therein include keto ester ether thioether and secondary amine. Specific examples of triacids operative herein illustratively include citric acid and 1 butane 2 3 4 tricarboxylic acid and benzentricarboxylic acid. It is appreciated regardless of the number of equivalents of carboxylic acid to boric acid the carboxylic acid need not be a single carboxylic acid but rather boric acid is readily reacted with two or more specific carboxylic acids in order to form a reduced symmetry carboxyl borate. A particularly preferred carboxylic acid is ROC R COOH where Ris hydrogen C Calkyl C Cfluoroalkyl C Caryl or heteroatom substituted C Calkyl where the heteroatom is oxygen sulfur or nitrogen and Ris hydrogen a halogen or C Calkyl. Another preferred monoacid is OH C R COOH where Ris as defined above. This particular acid while a monoacid forms a five member ring through action with a borate center. It is appreciated that the addition of a carbon atom intermediate between the carboxyl carbon and hydroxyl carbon serves to form a six member ring also having considerable thermodynamic stability.

A specific preferred diacid is oxalic acid. The reaction of oxalic acid and boric acid in a molar ratio of 3 2 yields a compound of the formula 

While the compounds of formulas 1 and 2 have utility as ligands for chelating various metal ions the electrochemical property of an inventive compound is generally enhanced by subsequent reaction with a metal halide. It is appreciated that a variety of metal halides are operative herein to react with an inventive carboxy borate. Metal halides operative herein illustratively include fluorides of lithium sodium potassium cesium magnesium calcium strontium transition metals such as silver zinc copper cobalt iron nickel manganese titanium metals from groups 13 14 and 15 such as aluminum gallium tin lead and bismuth the corresponding chlorides and the corresponding bromides. Additionally it is appreciated that an inventive carboxy borate is also reacted with an organohalide illustratively including the fluoride chloride or boride salts of tetra alkyl ammonium such as tetramethyl tetraethyl tetrabutyl and triethylmethyl pyridinium imidazolium tetra alkyl phosphonium tetra aryl phosphonium triaryl sulfonium and trialkyl sulfonium. Preferably the metal halide is lithium fluoride when the resulting compound is to be used as a lithium ion electrolyte.

By way of example reaction of the carboxy borate 3 with four mols of lithium fluoride yields two mols of lithium oxalyldifluoroborate LiODFB and one mol of dilithium oxalate.

A typical process for producing an inventive carboxyl borate according to the present invention includes dissolution of the carboxylic acid and boric acid in an aqueous or alcoholic solvent to form a solution. Alcoholic solvents operative herein illustratively include methanol isopropanol ethanol butanol higher alcohols and combinations thereof. It is appreciated that other conventional wet or neat organic solvents capable of solvating the carboxylic acid and boric acid reagents are also operative herein and illustratively include acetone pyridine and glycerin. Following the formation of a solution the solvent is removed to create a dry mixture. Further heating of the resulting mixture at a temperature typically between 90 140 C. under vacuum for a time ranging from three to twenty hours yields a carboxyl borate according to formula 1 or 2 .

An inventive carboxyl borate of formula 1 or 2 is reacted with a halide salt through interaction at one atmosphere in a solvent such as acetonitriles ethers tetrahydrofurans carbonates and mixtures thereof. Reaction occurs at temperatures generally ranging from 20 C. to the reflux temperature of the particular solvent. The resulting salt is isolated by conventional purification techniques. It is appreciated that reaction at different pressures is also operative with account for the pressure dependence of solvent properties.

An inventive halogenated electrolyte is operative either in pure form or in combination with other salts known to those skilled in the art. An inventive halogenated borate is operative as an electrolyte salt in primary and secondary batteries capacitors super capacitors and electrolytic cells. The concentration of a halogenated borate according to the present invention in an electrolyte is typically between 0.01 and 3 molar preferably from 0.01 to 2 molar and most preferably from 0.1 to 1.5 molar.

An inventive halogenated borate is solvated to create an operative electrolyte. The solvent is a mixture of aprotic solvents where aprotic solvents operative herein illustratively include dimethylcarbonate C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl a C Calkaline carbonate a C Cdialkoxy of a C Calkane a C Cester of a C Ccarboxylic acid a C Cdialkyl sulfoxide dioxolane sulfolane pyrrolidinones lactones acetonitrile tetrahydrofuran C Calkyl tetrahydrofurans and mixtures thereof. Specific examples of aprotic solvents include dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate methyl propyl carbonate propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate 1 2 dimethoxyethane 1 2 diethoxyethane methyl acetate gamma butyrolactone ethyl acetate methyl propionate ethyl propionate methyl butyrate ethyl butyrate dimethyl sulfoxides dioxolane sulfolane 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone acetonitrile acrylonitrile tetrahydrofuran 2 methyltetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof. According to the present invention electrolyte solvent is a mixture of at least three solvents that function synergistically to solubilize an inventive halogenated borate promote thermal stability and enhance ionic conductivity. Preferably at least one of the solvents is an alkaline carbonate and a second solvent is C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl . More preferably the ratio of alkaline carbonate C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl is in a ratio of 0.1 10 1. Still more preferably a lactone is present in the solvent mixture.

The following non limiting examples are provided to further illustrate the present invention. These examples are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention but rather to detail specific aspects thereof.

Synthesis of lithium oxalodifluoroborate LiODFB . 27.0 grams of oxalic acid 0.3 mols and 12.4 grams of boric acid 0.2 mols are dissolved in ethanol containing 30 water. The resulting solution is dried with a rotary evaporator. The resulting mixture is heated to 120 C. for six hours. A compound corresponding to formula 3 0.1 mols is obtained. The product 3 is dissolved in acetonitrile along with 10.4 grams 0.4 mols lithium fluoride. The resulting solution is refluxed for six hours to yield LiODFB and dilithium oxalate. High purity LiODFB is obtained by recrystallization using a 1 1 volume ratio of acetonitrile toluene mixed solvent. The resulting halogenated borate is characterized by thermogravimetric analysis and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in order to confirm the product as LiODFB.

LiODFB electrolyte and its properties. Three electrolytes are prepared by dissolving 1.0 molar LiODFB produced in Example 1 in three solvents in 1 1 3 weight ratio propylene carbonate PC ethylene carbonate EC ethyl methyl carbonate ECM 3 3 4 PC EC EMC and 1 1 3 EC EMC gamma butyrolactone GBL respectively. Ionic conductivities of these electrolytes are determined by measuring the impedance of a dip type two electrode cell. Ionic conductivities of the said electrolytes are plotted as a function of the temperature in which indicates that the LiODFB is capable of providing high ionic conductivity. Cu and Al wires which both have a diameter of 0.1 cm and have a length of 1.0 cm with a freshly scratched surface exposed to the solution are respectively used to determine cathodic and anodic stability of the electrolytes since these are the most common materials for the current collector of the anode and cathode of lithium ion batteries. shows that cathodic stability of the LiODFB electrolyte is only limited by plating and stripping of the metal lithium on Cu substrate due to the presence of lithium ions in the solution. shows that A1 can be very well passivated near 4.2 V versus Li Li and that in the second sweep the anodic currents ranged from zero up to 6.0 V. The above results prove that the LiODFB electrolytes are electrochemically stable for the operations of lithium ion batteries.

Li graphite and Li LiNiCOOhalf cells. The electrolyte having a composition of 1.0 molar LiODFB is dissolved in 3 3 4 PC EC EMC mixed solvent as prepared in Example 2 and is used to assemble Li graphite and Li LiNiCoOhalf cells. These two cells are initially cycled two times at a current density of 0.1 mA cm then cycled at 0.5 mA cm2 for all the following cycles. and show cycling performance of these two types of half cells respectively. It is shown that in the LiODFB electrolyte both graphite and LiNiCoOare reversibly cycled with a good capacity retention.

Lithium ion cells and their cycling performance. Using the electrolyte graphite and LiNiCoOcathode as described in Example 3 four identical lithium ion cells are assembled. All these four cells are formed two cycles at 0.1 mA cmbetween 2.5 V and 4.1 V. shows voltage curves of the initial two forming cycles of such a typical cell. After two forming cycles these cells are evaluated in the following conditions 

 1 Cell is cycled at room temperature 23 C. and cell at 60 C. with the same current density of 0.5 mA cmand voltage range of 2.5 4.1 V .

 2 Cell is charged at 20 C. and discharged at different low temperatures under the same current density of 0.5 mA cmbetween 2.5 V and 4.1 V .

 3 Cell is charged at 0.5 mA cmand discharged at different discharge current density at 20 C. between 2.5 V and 4.1 V .

Comparison of the Li graphite half cells without and with carboxyl borate coating. A graphite electrode as described in Example 3 was wetted with a mixed solution of 0.02 molar HBOand 0.03 molar HCOin methanol. After drying at room temperature the electrode was further heated at 100 110 C. under vacuum for 16 h so that a carboxyl borate layer was coated on the surface of the graphite electrode. Two Li graphite button cells with the same configuration but different graphite electrodes were assembled and filled with 150 l of the liquid electrolyte composed of 1.0 molar LiBFdissolved in a 1 1 3 wt. PC EC EMC mixed solvent. compares a change in the open circuit voltage of these two fully lithiated cells at 45 C. It is shown that graphite electrode coated with the carboxyl borate layer retains a stable open circuit voltage during the storage at 45 C.

Any patents or publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual patent or publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

The preceding figures and description illustrate the general principles of the present invention and some specific embodiments thereof. These are not intended to be a limitation upon the practice of the present invention since numerous modifications and variations will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art upon consideration of the drawings and description. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

