---

title: FAS binding antibodies
abstract: The disclosed invention relates to monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) which recognize human fatty acid synthase (hFAS) and are distinct from previously known anti-hFAS antibodies. Compositions, devices and kits comprising the MAbs are provided along with methods of using the MAbs in a variety of applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08247188&OS=08247188&RS=08247188
owner: Fasgen Diagnostics, LLC
number: 08247188
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060817
---
This application claims benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 709 246 filed Aug. 17 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.

The disclosed invention relates to monoclonal antibodies MAbs which recognize human fatty acid synthase hFAS . Compositions devices and kits comprising the MAbs are provided along with methods of using the MAbs in a variety of applications.

A prognostic molecule found in tumor cells from breast cancer patients was identified as fatty acid synthase FAS . See Kuhajda et al. 1994 Fatty acid synthesis a potential selective target for antineoplastic therapy. 91 14 6379 83. FAS is an approximately 270 kDa polypeptide and tumor fatty acid synthase oxidizes NADPH in a malonyl CoA dependent fashion and synthesized fatty acids composed of 80 palmitate 10 myristate and 10 stearate from acetyl CoA malonyl CoA and NADPH with a specific activity of 624 nmol of NADPH oxidized per min per mg. Studies with tumor cell lines with elevated fatty acid synthase expression demonstrated that fatty acid synthase increases occur in the context of overall cellular increases in endogenous fatty acid synthesis. FAS was also identified as the target for inhibition by cerulenin mediated inhibition of acylglycerol synthesis in cells.

Subsequently FAS was recognized as playing the key role in enzyme mediated de novo fatty acid synthesis. FAS expression has been shown to be involved in carcinogenesis of human malignancies beyond breast to include colorectal and prostate carcinomas. See for example Shurbaji et al. 1996 Immunohistochemical detection of a fatty acid synthase OA 519 as a predictor of progression of prostate cancer. 27 9 917 21 where an affinity purified FAS antibody was used to examine primary prostate cancers by immunohistochemistry.

Two archetypal monoclonal antibodies MAbs which bind FAS have been identified and used in an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA to quantify FAS. See Wang et al. A new model ELISA based on two monoclonal antibodies for quantification of fatty acid synthase. 2002 23 3 279 92. A MAb identified as M6 was used as the capture antibody in the ELISA while a MAb identified as M3 was labeled and used as a detector antibody. The ELISA based on this two MAb combination was recognized as an improvement over previous assays based on an earlier polyclonal monoclonal combination ELISA described by Wang et al. Two site ELISA for the quantitative determination of fatty acid synthase. 304 1 2 107 15 2002 .

Innocenzi et al. Fatty acid synthase expression in melanoma. 30 1 23 8 2003 also describe experiments with use of the M6 antibody. Krontiras et al. Fatty acid synthase expression is increased in neoplastic lesions of the oral tongue. 21 4 325 9 1999 describe the use of antibodies from ChekTec of Baltimore Md. which offered M3 and M6 as anti OA 519 antibodies. Pizer et al. Increased fatty acid synthase as a therapeutic target in androgen independent prostate cancer progression. 47 2 102 10 2001 used antibodies as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 864 011 which is related to U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 791 as discussed below.

The above discussion and citation of documents herein is not intended as an admission that any is pertinent prior art. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of documents is based on the information available to the applicant and does not constitute any admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of the documents.

The disclosed invention provides antibodies which recognize epitopes of human fatty acid synthase hFAS and thus bind to hFAS polypeptides including fragments thereof. Embodiments of the disclosed invention include antibodies which bind full length as well as particular hFAS polypeptides to varying degrees not previously known. Other embodiments include antibodies which bind to one or more hFAS polypeptides to the exclusion of other hFAS polypeptides. The disclosed invention also provides for compositions and preparations devices and apparatuses articles of manufacture and methods comprising the antibodies described herein. Further embodiments of the disclosed invention include modified or derivative forms of the disclosed antibodies including hybrid antibodies altered antibodies chimeric antibodies conjugated antibodies single chain antibodies and humanized antibodies as non limiting examples. Other modified forms include portions of the disclosed antibodies including Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments which bind hFAS polypeptides.

Thus in a first aspect the disclosed invention provides antibodies that bind hFAS polypeptides including fragments thereof and are different from previously known FAS binding antibodies. In some embodiments the antibodies are monoclonal antibodies which are a composition or preparation of antibodies with a homogeneous antibody population without regard for the source of the antibody population or the means by which the antibody population was made or prepared. In other embodiments the antibodies are a mixture of monoclonal antibodies such that the population of antibodies is heterogeneous in the mixture.

The monoclonal antibodies of the disclosed invention are distinct in binding characteristics and thus binding specificity from previously known hFAS binding antibodies such as the M3 and M6 monoclonal antibodies as well as the anti Hpr monoclonal antibody referred to in U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 791 as produced by hybridoma cells OA 519 M1 or HPR 2 and deposited under ATCC accession number 10853. While anti Hpr antibodies have been observed to crossreact with FAS the disclosed invention is directed to anti hFAS antibodies which in some embodiments do not crossreact with Hpr.

Without being bound by theory and offered to improve the understanding of the disclosed invention it is believed that the antibodies of the disclosed invention differ in structure from previously known hFAS binding antibodies within at least one of the CDRs complementarity determining regions which participate in binding to an hFAS polypeptide. This belief is based in part on the well documented structural arrangement of elements including the CDR containing Vand Vhypervariable regions of an antibody s structure. Of course antibodies of the disclosed invention may also differ from known hFAS binding antibodies at more than one CDR and or at more than one amino acid position within one or more CDR. These differences may provide the antibodies of the disclosed invention with the characteristic of binding to a different epitope than previously known antibodies against FAS.

Accordingly the disclosed invention also provides a CDR from an hFAS binding antibody that is distinct from the CDR of previous FAS binding antibodies such as the M3 or M6 antibodies. A CDR of the disclosed invention may be in an isolated form from the antibody in which it is normally found. Isolation may be by proteolytic cleavage from the antibody or by sequencing and isolation of the nucleic acid sequence encoding a CDR or CDR portion of an antibody. The CDR or a polypeptide containing the CDR can be recombinantly linked to another polypeptide to form a fusion protein or used to replace the CDR of another antibody to form a chimeric antibody or fragment thereof as non limiting examples. Such forms and uses of a CDR may be practiced by methods known to the skilled person including recombinant DNA technology which incorporates the nucleic acid sequence encoding a CDR into a larger sequence encoding a fusion protein or chimeric antibody.

The different binding specificities provided by the antibodies of the disclosed invention provide benefits and advantages for their use. In some embodiments antibodies that have relatively high specificity for only hFAS polypeptides in comparison to relatively low cross reactivity with non hFAS polypeptides may be advantageously used in methods where an hFAS polypeptide to be bound by an antibody is in an environment of high complexity. Non limiting examples of such environments include i the situation of Western blotting or immunoblotting of samples containing numerous other non hFAS antigens that are exposed to an antibody and ii immunohistochemistry IHC where a sample presents numerous other non hFAS antigens that are presented to an antibody. In other embodiments antibodies that have relatively high specificity for full length hFAS polypeptides may be advantageously used to detect full length molecules without comparatively low cross reactivity to shorter hFAS fragments. Alternatively antibodies that recognize shorter hFAS fragments and optionally also full length or other fragments may also be advantageously used to detect proteolytic fragments of hFAS that may be present in some samples including biological samples from some subjects but not others.

In further embodiments antibodies may have specificities for denatured or fixed forms of an hFAS polypeptide. A non limiting example is the situation of antibodies with specificities for full length or proteolytic fragments of hFAS that have been denatured with detergent such as in the context of Western blotting after SDS gel electrophoresis. Another non limiting example is in the case of antibodies with specificities for full length or proteolytic fragments of hFAS that have been fixed with an agent such as but not limited to formalin formaldehyde paraformaldehyde glutaraldehyde and or an alcohol like in the context of a fixed sample of cells or tissues used in IHC including a formalin fixed and paraffin embedded FFPE sample.

In a second aspect compositions and preparations comprising the antibodies of the disclosed invention are provided. The compositions or preparations may be those of a relatively crude form such as those containing an antibody of the disclosed invention and the cell s or cellular components used to produce the antibody as well as those containing complexes of the antibodies bound to one or more hFAS polypeptides. In other embodiments the compositions or preparations may be those for use in a kit or method as described herein. In further embodiments the compositions or preparations may be those for application or coating of an antibody of the disclosed invention to a device such as a solution of antibody used to immobilize the antibody on a solid phase.

Of course an immobilized form of an antibody of the disclosed invention is also an aspect provided herein. Non limiting examples include antibodies bound to a solid phase like a porous microporous with an average pore diameter less than about one micron or macroporous with an average pore diameter of more than about 10 microns material such as a membrane cellulose nitrocellulose or glass fibers a bead such as that made of agarose or polyacrylamide or latex or a surface of a dish plate or well such as one made of polystyrene.

In a further aspect the disclosed invention provides methods comprising the use of an antibody or a combination of antibodies of the disclosed invention. As alluded to above methods for the use of an antibody in a Western blotting or IHC method is contemplated as part of the disclosed invention. Additional methods include those known in the field as enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISAs and radioimmune assays RIAs . More generally however methods for the detection of an hFAS polypeptide in any context are contemplated. Such methods all have a common feature or mechanism based on either i detection of an hFAS polypeptide per se by use of an antibody of the disclosed invention or ii detection of a complex of an antibody of the disclosed invention and an hFAS polypeptide. Both types of detection address the ultimate question of whether an hFAS polypeptide is present. Moreover and because an antibody of the disclosed invention is used in the detection the methods may all be viewed as being an immunoassay for hFAS.

The act of detection may be performed directly or indirectly as well as qualitatively or quantitatively as an indicator of the presence or level of an hFAS polypeptide. Alternatively the act may be used to determine the absence of an hFAS polypeptide. The formation of a complex in a method of the disclosed invention may be allowed to occur under immunologically reactive conditions wherein an antibody of the disclosed invention would bind an hFAS polypeptide. Alternatively a method of the disclosed invention may simply be directed to the detection of the complex after it has formed under whatever conditions were present for the antibody and hFAS polypeptide. A non limiting example is a method wherein complex formation occurs in vivo within an organism or cell.

In some embodiments the detection is for the presence or absence of hFAS in a biological sample like a fluid or cell containing sample from a subject or individual. The sample may be suspected of containing one or more hFAS polypeptides in which case the methods of the disclosed invention are used to provide an initial indicator of their presence or alternatively the sample may have been previously determined to contain one or more hFAS polypeptides by use of a method of the disclosed invention or another method in which case the methods of the disclosed invention provide a basis to confirm or contradict the previous determination.

The disclosed invention also provides for the detection of a complex containing an hFAS polypeptide as a means to diagnose the presence of a disease such as cancer. The detection may also be used in methods to monitor the course or recurrence of a disease in a subject based upon the correlation of the presence or level of hFAS to the disease. In some embodiments the disease is cancer of the breast prostate colon ovary lung skin melanoma oral mucosa or squamous tissue genito urinary gastrointestinal or any other malignancies such as sarcomas or lymphoma leukemia which may express FAS.

The detection of hFAS polypeptide s may also be used as part of the clinical or medical care of a patient. In some embodiments the detection is used in methods to determine whether to administer a FAS inhibitor to a patient based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in a sample from the patient. In additional embodiments the determination may be directed toward the treatment of disease including but not limited to those described above which is diagnosed based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in the sample such that administration of a FAS inhibitor or other agent to treat the disease is palliative. Non limiting examples of chemotherapy targeted at FAS include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 837 and US 2002 0173447 A1.

In other embodiments the determination may be directed toward the prevention of disease which is indicated as possible based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in the sample such that administration of a FAS inhibitor or other agent is to prevent the disease from occurring or reducing its severity or extent if it occurs. This aspect of the disclosed invention thus relates to the field of chemoprevention of disease based upon inhibition of fatty acid synthesis as mediated by FAS in disease onset or progression.

Other clinical methods include those wherein a FAS binding antibody is utilized in whole or in part as a therapeutic agent. Such methods include the administration of such an antibody or a FAS binding portion thereof which binds FAS. In some embodiments the antibody or portion thereof inhibits or reduces FAS activity to a subject in need of such inhibition. In other embodiments the antibody or portion thereof is linked or conjugated to another agent to form a conjugate which inhibits or reduces FAS activity. In further embodiments the other agent is a toxic agent against the cell expressing the FAS activity. The antibody or portion thereof may be administered directly as a therapeutic agent administered as part of a composition of the disclosed invention administered as part of a conjugate or fusion polypeptide or administered as a nucleic acid construct which expresses the antibody or fragment or fusion polypeptide in a cell or subject.

Further clinical methods include those involved in the providing of medical care to a patient based on the detection of a hFAS polypeptide as described herein. In some embodiments the methods are related to the providing of diagnostic services based on determining the presence or level of a hFAS polypeptide with or without inclusion of a medical interpretation of the significance or insignificance of a detected polypeptide. In other embodiments the method of providing a diagnostic service of the disclosed invention is preceded by a determination of a need for the service. In further embodiments the method includes acts in the monitoring of the performance of the service as well as acts in the request or receipt of reimbursement for the performance of the service.

Additional embodiments and features are set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the specification or may be learned by the practice of the disclosed invention. The features and advantages of the disclosed invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations and methods described in the specification.

As used herein units prefixes and symbols are generally denoted in their System International de Unites SI accepted form. Numeric ranges are inclusive of the numbers defining the range. The headings provided herein are not limitations of the various aspects or embodiments of the disclosed invention which can be had by reference to the specification as a whole. Accordingly the terms defined immediately below are more fully defined by reference to the specification in its entirety.

The term human fatty acid synthase or hFAS or refers to the polypeptide previously identified as a cancer related antigen in U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 791 and the patent applications from which it depends. The antigen is also referred to as OA 519 in the field and is defined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology NC IUBMB as fatty acid synthase E.C. 2.3.1.85 as described at www.chem.qmul.ac.uk iubmb enzyme . The terms are not limited to a particular human fatty acid synthase by amino acid sequence but rather any hFAS or fragment thereof that is recognized by an antibody of the disclosed invention. The terms also refer to hFAS proteins or peptides including fragments of a full length sequence which remain intracellular as well as cell free forms found in extracellular environments and bodily fluids. In some cases a fragment of a full length hFAS is one which is indicative of unique to full length hFAS. The terms polypeptide peptide and protein as used herein refer to a polymer of amino acid residues. These terms also encompass polymers containing conservative amino acid substitutions such that the polymer in its entirety retains its functionality such as the functionality of being recognized by an anti hFAS antibody of the disclosed invention.

As used herein antibody refers to an immunoglobulin molecule and fragments thereof which are immunologically reactive with a particular antigen. The term antibodies refers to a plurality of such molecules and is not limited to homogeneous populations of a single type of antibody. The term antibody also includes genetically engineered forms such as chimeric antibodies e.g. humanized murine antibodies heteroconjugate antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies and recombinant single chain Fv fragments scFv and disulfide stabilized dsFv Fv fragments see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 654 . The term antibody also includes antigen binding forms of antibodies e.g. Fab F ab Fab Fv and rIgG. See also Pierce Catalog and Handbook 1994 1995 Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. . The term anti hFAS refers to an antibody which is generated against hFAS.

Humanized antibodies refer to antibodies or immunologically active fragments thereof which contain one or two non human CDRs in a molecule containing human antibody sequences. The non human CDR s may be from any source including but not limited to mouse rat rabbit or other mammalian antibodies. The presence of human portion s in a humanized antibody or fragment thereof is less likely to cause an immune response when administered to a human subject. A humanized antibody or fragment thereof may contain about 50 or more about 55 or more about 60 or more about 65 or more about 70 or more about 75 or more about 80 or more about 85 or more about 90 or more or about 95 or more human antibody sequences over the length of the antibody or fragment thereof.

An antibody immunologically reactive with hFAS as described herein can be generated by known methodologies such as immunization of an antibody producing animal with an hFAS polypeptide. Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by various techniques familiar to those skilled in the art. Description of techniques for preparing such monoclonal antibodies may be found in e.g. Stites et al. eds. BASIC AND CLINICAL IMMUNOLOGY 4TH ED. Lange Medical Publications Los Altos Calif. and references cited therein Harlow Lane supra Goding MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE 2D ED. Academic Press New York N.Y. 1986 Kohler Milstein Nature 256 495497 1975 and particularly Chowdhury P. S. et al. Mol. Immunol. 34 9 1997 which discusses one non limiting method of generating monoclonal antibodies.

Methods to prepare monoclonal antibodies include the immunization of an animal with a nucleic acid sequence that encodes the desired immunogen in this case an hFAS polypeptide. This technique has at least two advantages over protein based immunization avoidance of the need for protein purification and increased likelihood of proper post translational modification of the immunogen.

Generally an immunoglobulin molecule has two types of polypeptide chains a heavy and light chain. There are two of each heavy and light chain in the molecule which gives rise to two binding sites in each molecule. Each chain contains a constant region and a variable region. The variable regions of one light and one heavy chain variable regions contain a framework region interrupted by three hypervariable regions also called complementarity determining regions or CDRs. See SEQUENCES OF PROTEINS OF IMMUNOLOGICAL INTEREST Kabat E. et al. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 1987 which is incorporated herein by reference. Within a species the sequences of the framework regions of different light or heavy chains are relatively conserved. The combined framework regions of one light and one heavy chain positions the CDRs in three dimensional space to permit them to interact with and bind to an epitope of an antigen. The CDRs are typically referred to as CDR1 CDR2 and CDR3 numbered sequentially starting from the N terminus of each chain.

As used herein the phrase single chain Fv or scFv refers to an antibody in which a heavy chain and a light chain of a traditional two chain antibody have been joined to form one chain with a single binding site. Typically a linker peptide is placed between the two chains to allow for proper folding and positioning of the variable region to create the active binding site. The term linker peptide refers to a polypeptide chain within an antibody binding fragment e.g. Fv fragment which serves to indirectly attach the variable heavy chain to the variable light chain.

More generally a linker is a molecule used to join the antibody to another molecule. The linker is capable of forming covalent bonds to both the antibody and to the other molecule. Suitable linkers are well known to the skilled person and include but are not limited to straight or branched chain carbon linkers hetero cyclic carbon linkers or peptide linkers. Where the antibody and another molecule are polypeptides the linkers may be joined to the constituent amino acids through their side groups e.g. through a disulfide linkage to cysteine . Alternatively the linkers will be joined to the alpha carbon amino and carboxyl groups of the terminal amino acids.

The term contacting refers to placement in direct physical association such as the placement of an antibody of the disclosed invention with a hFAS polypeptide such that formation of a complex of these two components may result.

The phrase determining the presence or absence of an hFAS polypeptide or a complex comprising an hFAS polypeptide as used herein refers to a qualitative assessment of the presence or absence of an hFAS polypeptide in a sample or other material. The term may also be considered the detection of the presence of an hFAS polypeptide above a specific level such as but not limited to a level above background noise or the level in a reference cell or sample including a cell or sample from a normal subject . The use of determining or detecting the level of an hFAS polypeptide as used herein refers to the assessment of the amount of a polypeptide at a quantitative or semi quantitative level. The assessment need not be absolutely accurate but may instead be approximate.

The terms conjugate bond link and variations thereof refer to the physical attachment of two entities via formation of at least one covalent bond. In some situations they refer to making two polypeptides into one contiguous polypeptide molecule. In the context of the disclosed invention the terms include reference to joining an antibody moiety to a solid phase support or other solid phase material including the surface of a solid phase material as well as another molecule. The formation of a covalent bond may be by use of a chemical reaction to form the bond. The term support refers to conventional supports such as beads particles dipsticks fibers filters membranes and silane or silicate supports such as glass slides. Conjugated antibodies of the disclosed invention include but are not limited to antibodies that are attached to a label as well as antibodies attached to a toxin or other desired moiety including another polypeptide such that the antibody may act as a targeting molecule which directs the toxin or other moiety to a desired FAS expressing target. Optionally the target is a cell such as a diseased cell.

The term label refers to a composition capable of being detected directly or indirectly to indicate the presence of the labeled molecule. Thus a labeled antibody of the disclosed invention may be detected by virtue of the label. The detection may be made quantitatively or qualitatively. Suitable labels include one member of a binding pair such as biotin in a biotin avidin or biotin strepavidin binding pair radioisotopes nucleotide chromophores enzymes e.g. horse radish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase and others commonly used in an ELISA substrates fluorescent molecules e.g. fluorescein isothiocyanate Texas red rhodamine green fluorescent protein and the like chemiluminescent moieties magnetic particles or beads bioluminescent moieties calorimetric labels such as colloidal gold and the like. As such a label is any composition detectable directly or indirectly by spectroscopic photochemical biochemical immunochemical electrical optical or chemical means. In some embodiments the label is detectable by the unaided eye.

The means to detect such labels are well known to the skilled person. For example radiolabels may be detected using photographic film or scintillation counters fluorescent markers may be detected using a photodetector to detect emitted illumination. Enzymatic labels are typically detected by providing the enzyme with a substrate and detecting the reaction product produced by the action of the enzyme on the substrate and colorimetric labels are detected by simply visualizing the colored label.

The term FAS inhibitor includes any number of compounds and molecules currently known or later developed to act as inhibitors of fatty acid synthase activity. Non limiting examples are provided in U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 837 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety as if fully set forth. Other non limiting examples include thiolactomycin see WO 04 005277 PCT US03 021700 for a non limiting description and those described in WO 2004 006835 A2 PCT US03 020960 . As described below an antibody or immunologically active fragment thereof may also be a FAS inhibitor.

The disclosed invention provides antibodies which bind hFAS polypeptides. FAS is a protein expressed in multiple human cell types as well as in cancer cells. The antibodies have specificities of binding that differ from previously known anti hFAS antibodies. The disclosed invention is based in part on the preparation and analysis of over 120 clones of monoclonal antibodies and the discovery of numerous antibodies that were distinct from previously known monoclonal antibodies against hFAS. Approximately 70 clones have been stored and may be revived. Some clones have been used to produce ascites in animals for antibody production. The disclosed invention is directed to monoclonal antibodies which bind hFAS but are distinct from previously known monoclonal antibodies identified as M3 or M6 or deposited as ATCC accession number 10853.

The ability of an antibody to bind hFAS includes the ability to selectively or specifically bind hFAS under immunologically reactive conditions to one or more determinants of hFAS. The antibodies of the invention may be those which selectively or specifically bind hFAS determinants not present on other molecules like Hpr as a non limiting example that may be found with hFAS in a sample. The term selectively bind refers to the preferential association of an antibody in whole or part with an epitope present on an hFAS polypeptide and not other polypeptides. It is of course recognized that a certain degree of non specific interaction may occur between an antibody and a non target molecule. Nevertheless selective binding may be distinguished as mediated through specific recognition of hFAS.

Although selectively or specifically binding antibodies bind antigen they may do so with low affinity. But specific binding results in a much stronger association between the antibody and its cognate antigen than between the antibody and a non cognate antigen. Specific binding typically results in greater than about 2 fold greater than about 5 fold greater than about 10 fold or greater than about 100 fold increase in the amount of bound antibody per unit time to a cognate antigen as compared to a non cognate antigen. Specific binding to a cognate protein in the presence of non cognate proteins requires an antibody that is selected for its specificity for a particular antigen. A variety of immunoassay formats are appropriate for selecting antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a particular protein. For example solid phase ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to select monoclonal antibodies specifically immunoreactive with a protein. See Harlow Lane ANTIBODIES A LABORATORY MANUAL Cold Spring Harbor Publications New York 1988 for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to determine specific immunoreactivity.

The binding affinity of antibodies of the disclosed invention may be measured or determined by standard antibody antigen assays for example competitive assays saturation assays or standard immunoassays such as ELISA or RIA. Such assays can be used to determine the dissociation constant of the antibody. The phrase dissociation constant refers to the affinity of an antibody for an antigen. Specificity of binding between an antibody and an antigen exists if the dissociation constant K 1 K where K is the affinity constant of the antibody is 

The term immunologically reactive conditions refers to conditions which allow an antibody to bind its cognate epitope to a detectably greater degree than and or to the substantial exclusion of binding to substantially all other epitopes. Immunologically reactive conditions are dependent upon the format of the antibody binding reaction and typically are those utilized in immunoassay protocols or those conditions encountered in vivo. See Harlow Lane supra for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions. In some embodiments the immunologically reactive conditions employed in the methods of the disclosed invention are physiological conditions which include reference to conditions e.g. temperature osmolarity and pH that are typical inside a living mammal or a mammalian cell. While it is recognized that some organs are subject to extreme conditions the in vivo and intracellular environment normally lies around pH 7 i.e. from pH 6.0 to pH 8.0 more typically pH 6.5 to 7.5 contains water as the predominant solvent and exists at a temperature above 0 C. and below 50 C. Osmolarity is within the range that is supportive of cell viability and proliferation.

Most antibodies of the disclosed invention retain the ability to bind an hFAS polypeptide of about 250 kD and or a proteolytic product of hFAS of about 134 kD. In some embodiments however the antibodies may bind either of these two hFAS polypeptides with greater or reduced affinity. Alternatively the antibodies may bind either of these polypeptides with greater or reduced specificity relative to other antigens that may be present with hFAS polypeptides or relative to other hFAS polypeptides.

One means of comparing specificity among different antibodies is to immunoblot the same population of polypeptides or antigens against the different antibodies. The population of polypeptides or antigens may be that of a cell which expresses hFAS or a lysate of such a cell. Non limiting examples of such cells include a primary cell culture or a cell line which expresses hFAS. Possible cells include breast cancer cells colorectal cancer cells and prostate cancer cells as non limiting examples while cell lines include MCF 7 and ZR 75 1 as non limiting examples.

Alternatively the population of polypeptides or antigens may be that of a partially proteolyzed sample containing hFAS polypeptides. The proteolytic means may be naturally occurring or by use of particular proteolytic agents such as trypsin chymotrypsin Endoproteinase Lys C or Glu C chemical cleavage reagents like cyanogen bromide and BNPS Skatole or any other suitable means known in the art. Such populations usually start with partially purified or purified samples of hFAS polypeptides. Non limiting examples include samples with full length hFAS purified from cells which express hFAS polypeptides without the use of recombinant DNA technology such as hFAS polypeptides purified from ZR 75 1 cells. Alternatively the samples may contain hFAS polypeptides expressed by use of recombinant DNA technology.

Antibodies of the invention which specifically bind one or more particular hFAS polypeptides relative to other antigens that may be present with hFAS polypeptides or relative to other hFAS polypeptides may be of particular interest. In some embodiments the antibodies bind to full length hFAS and or the 250 kD form with greater affinity or reduced affinity compared to the M3 antibody known in the art.

The disclosed invention also provides antibodies with specificities similar to but not identical to the M3 antibody known in the art. Non limiting examples include hFAS binding antibodies that do not bind an hFAS polypeptide fragment of about 70 kD and or that bind an hFAS polypeptide fragment of about 50 kD in a population of hFAS polypeptides digested with trypsin are provided.

In another embodiment the disclosed invention provides antibodies with specificities similar to but not identical to the M6 antibody known in the art. Non limiting examples include hFAS binding antibodies that do not bind a polypeptide of about 60 kD and or that bind a polypeptide of about 40 kD in a MCF 7 cell lysate are provided.

Other M6 like antibodies include those which do not bind a polypeptide of a about 45 kD about 34 kD about 16 kD about 37 kD about 28 kD or about 7 kD in a lysate of human ZR 75 1 breast cancer cells digested with trypsin or

b bind a polypeptide of about 115 kD about 90 kD about 50 kD about 85 kD about 78 kD about 50 kD about 40 kD or about 17 kD in a lysate of human ZR 75 1 breast cancer cells digested with trypsin.

Further M6 like antibodies include those which a do not bind a polypeptide of about 125 kD about 32 kD or about 9 kD in a lysate of human MCF 7 breast cancer cells or

b binds a polypeptide of about 85 kD about 50 kD about 43 kD or about 24 kD in a lysate of human ZR 75 1 breast cancer cells digested with trypsin.

In further embodiments of the disclosed invention specific monoclonal antibodies identified as 34 6E7 deposited as hybridoma clone 34 6E7 2G10 15 with the ATCC 10801 University Blvd.. Manassas VA 20110 on Aug. 17 2006 and assigned accession number PTA 7814 or 63 2D8 deposited as hybridoma clone 63 2D8 2E2 1D2 with the ATCC on Aug. 17 2006 and assigned accession number PTA 7817 or 63 4G4 deposited as hybridoma clone 63 4G4 B3 2F3 with the ATCC on Aug. 17 2006 and assigned accession number PTA 7815 or 63 3C10 deposited as hybridoma clone 63 3C10 2B8 with the ATCC on Aug. 17 2006 and assigned accession number PTA 7816 are disclosed and specifically contemplated for use in the compositions and methods as described herein. The 34 6E7 2G10 15 63 2D8 2E2 1D2 63 4G4 B3 2F3 and 63 3C10 2B8 hybridomas are all mouse hybridoma cell lines originating from mouse spleens. They may be cultured in ImDm with 17.6 fetal bovine serum 1 mM sodium pyruvate 2 mM L glutamine and 100 units mL of penicillin streptomycin. The antibodies produced are all of the IgGsubtype. Of course antibodies of other subtypes may be prepared by methods known to the skilled person.

The CDRs from these monoclonal antibodies may be isolated in some embodiments of the disclosed invention. Other embodiments include the recombinant application of one or more of the CDRs or nucleic acids encoding them to produce fusion proteins or chimeric antibodies for use in the practice of the disclosed invention.

Of course the above discussed hFAS polypeptide fragments may also be used to generate additional antibodies of the invention including antibodies with the same hFAS reactivity as those detailed herein. As non limiting examples the hFAS polypeptide fragment of about 50 kD from a trypsin digestion the polypeptide of about 40 kD in a MCF 7 cell lysate a polypeptide of about 115 kD about 90 kD about 50 kD about 85 kD about 78 kD about 50 kD about 40 kD or about 17 kD in a lysate of human ZR 75 1 breast cancer cells digested with trypsin and or a polypeptide of about 85 kD about 50 kD about 43 kD or about 24 kD in a lysate of human ZR 75 1 breast cancer cells digested with trypsin may be isolated by means known to the skilled artisan and used as antigen to generate additional antibodies of the invention. The antibodies may of course be simply screened by use of routine methods known to the skilled person for the hFAS binding reactivities and specificities as described herein.

The anti hFAS antibodies of the invention may be from any non human source including mouse rat goat sheep and rabbit as non limiting examples. The antibodies may be used as a primary antibody in an immunoassay in combination with a secondary antibody specific for the constant region of the primary antibody. In some embodiments the primary antibody may be left unlabeled in favor of the secondary antibody being detectably labeled. The antibodies may also be of any class including IgG IgM IgD IgA and IgE. They may also be of a subclass of IgG or of IgA.

The antibodies and fragments thereof of the invention may also inhibit FAS activity and so act as FAS inhibitors. Such antibodies and fragments may be used to both detect the presence of FAS and to inhibit its activity without the need for introduction of an additional FAS inhibitor. Alternatively an FAS inhibitory antibody or antibody fragment of the invention may be used in combination with another FAS inhibitor such as in a composition for inhibiting FAS activity or as administered separately or in combination to a subject as part of a method to inhibit FAS activity. Without being bound by theory and offered to improve the understanding of the disclosed invention an FAS inhibitory antibody or antibody fragment of the invention may act by binding all or part of an FAS binding site and or regulatory domain. In other embodiments the administration may be of an antibody or FAS binding portion thereof that is linked or conjugated to another agent such that the antibody or portion thereof targets the other agent to the FAS activity. The other agent may be a FAS inhibitor and or a toxic agent against the cell containing the FAS activity.

In further embodiments the antibody or portion thereof may be delivered to a location of FAS activity via a nucleic acid sequence that encodes the antibody or portion thereof separate or as part of a fusion polypeptide. The nucleic acid sequence is thus a coding sequence which may be operably linked to regulatory element s such that the element s direct the expression of the sequence as an mRNA and or protein to form an expression construct. Such a construct may be used directly such as by direct delivery to a desired site followed by uptake by a cell at the site or may be part of a vector construct. Vector constructs of the disclosed invention include those that are capable of self replication under suitable conditions such as in permissive cells. Non limiting examples include viral vectors and plasmid molecules including those maintained episomally. A plurality of regulatory elements and vectors are known to the skilled artisan and may be readily selected for use in the practice of the disclosed invention.

The antibodies of the invention may be modified or used to derive additional antibodies. Non limiting examples include hybrid antibodies altered antibodies chimeric antibodies conjugated antibodies single chain antibodies and humanized antibodies containing all or part of the hFAS binding functionality of the antibodies of the invention. Other embodiments of the disclosed invention of include portions of the disclosed antibodies which bind hFAS polypeptides including Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments.

The disclosed invention includes recombinant anti hFAS antibody such as a scFv or disulfide stabilized Fv antibody. Fv antibodies are typically about 25 kDa and contain a complete antigen binding site with 3 CDRs per heavy and light chain. If the Vand the Vchain are expressed non contiguously the chains of the Fv antibody are typically held together by noncovalent interactions. However these chains tend to dissociate upon dilution so methods have been developed to crosslink the chains through glutaraldehyde intermolecular disulfides or a peptide linker. The antibody may be a single chain Fv scFv . The Vand the Vregions of a scFv antibody comprise a single chain which is folded to create an antigen binding site similar to that found in two chain antibodies. Once folded noncovalent interactions stabilize the single chain antibody. In a more preferred embodiment the scFv is recombinantly produced.

While the Vand Vregions of some antibody embodiments can be directly joined together one of skill will appreciate that the regions may be separated by a peptide linker consisting of one or more amino acids. Peptide linkers and their use are well known in the art. See e.g. Huston et al. Proc. Nat l Acad. Sci. USA 8 5879 1988 Bird et al. Science 242 4236 1988 Glockshuber et al. Biochemistry 29 1362 1990 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 946 778 5 132 405 and Stemmer et al. Biotechniques 14 256 265 1993 all incorporated herein by reference. Generally the peptide linker will have no specific biological activity other than to join the regions or to preserve some minimum distance or other spatial relationship between them. However the constituent amino acids of the peptide linker may be selected to influence some property of the molecule such as the folding net charge or hydrophobicity. Single chain Fv scFv antibodies optionally include a peptide linker of no more than 50 amino acids generally no more than 40 amino acids preferably no more than 30 amino acids and more preferably no more than 20 amino acids in length. In some embodiments the peptide linker is a concatamer of a base sequence.

The disclosed invention also provides one or more CDRs from an hFAS binding antibody as provided herein. A CDR may be isolated alone or in combination with one or both of the other CDRs present on the same antibody light or heavy chain. In some embodiments isolation is by sequencing and or isolation of the nucleic acid sequence encoding a CDR or CDR portion of an antibody. Such nucleic acid sequences may be recombinantly linked to sequences encoding another polypeptide to form a fusion protein or used to replace the CDR coding sequences of another antibody to form a chimeric antibody or fragment thereof as non limiting examples. A chimeric antibody containing a CDR of the invention may be used in the same manner as an antibody of the invention.

The antibodies of the invention may be labeled covalently or non covalently as described herein. For use in some immunoassays an antibody is often labeled to facilitate its detection and thus the detection of an hFAS polypeptide bound to the antibody. In some embodiments the label may simply be a large particle including colored glass or plastic e.g. polystyrene polypropylene latex etc. beads as non limiting examples wherein aggregation of a large number thereof in a localized space is detectable including to the unaided eye in some exemplary immunoassays.

Where a label or other detectable moiety is to be linked to an antibody of the invention a number of means known to the skilled person may be used. The procedure for attaching a molecule to an antibody will vary according to the chemical structure of the molecule to be attached. Polypeptides typically contain variety of functional groups which are available for reaction with a suitable functional group on an antibody. Alternatively the antibody is derivatized to expose or attach additional reactive functional groups. The derivatization may involve attachment of any of a number of linker molecules such as those available from Pierce Chemical Company Rockford Ill.

Alternatively the antibodies are used in conjunction with a labeling agent to specifically bind to and label the binding complex formed by the hFAS polypeptide and the antibody. In some embodiments the labeling agent may itself be one of the moieties comprising the complex i.e. the anti hFAS antibody. Alternatively the labeling agent may be a third moiety such as another antibody a secondary antibody that is labeled or immobilized that specifically binds to the complex. Non limiting examples of the disclosed invention include the use of a secondary antibody that is species specific to bind the constant region of the anti hFAS antibody.

In cases of some competitive immunoassays an unlabeled antibody of the invention is used in combination with a labeled form of another anti hFAS antibody. The two antibodies are then contacted with hFAS in a sample to compete for binding. In an alternative non competitive format the unlabeled anti hFAS antibody is used in combination with the labeled antibody to form a sandwich complex comprising both antibodies and the bound hFAS polypeptide. Detection of this sandwich complex is then used to detect the presence of or determine the amount of hFAS.

Other proteins which specifically bind immunoglobulin constant regions such as Protein A or Protein G may also be used as the label agent. These proteins are found as constituents in streptococcal cell walls and exhibit a strong non immunogenic reactivity with immunoglobulin constant regions from a variety of species see generally Kronval et al. J. Immunol. 111 1401 1406 1973 and Akerstrom et al. J. Immunol 135 2589 2542 1985 . Of course the Protein A or Protein G may itself be detectably labeled as described herein including by attachment or immobilization to a solid phase as provided herein for antibodies of the invention.

The antibodies of the invention may be selected based upon their different binding specificities to address the needs of particular situations where detection of hFAS polypeptides is needed. As a non limiting example antibodies with greater specificity or affinity for full length hFAS can be selected for use where detection of full length hFAS is desired. Alternatively antibodies with greater specificity or affinity for a particular hFAS fragment may be used in situations where detection of that fragment is preferred.

The disclosed invention further provides cell lines which express the antibodies of the invention. The cell lines may be hybridoma cell lines including those deposited as described above.

Compositions and preparations comprising the antibodies of the invention include solutions containing the antibodies as well as solid phase materials on which the antibodies have been applied.

In some embodiments the antibodies are associated with a component or device for the use of the antibodies in an ELISA or RIA. Non limiting examples include antibodies immobilized on solid surfaces for use in these assays. In another optional embodiment the antibodies are linked or conjugated to a label that may be electrochemically stimulated and then detected based on light emission. A non limiting example of such an assay method is electrochemiluminescence ECL technology where an antibody or antibody fragment of the invention is linked to ruthenium chelate so that it can be detected when ruthenium is oxidized reduced at an electrode surface using known methodologies.

In other embodiments the antibodies are associated with a device or strip for detection of hFAS polypeptides by use of an immunochromatographic assay such as one based upon lateral flow of a solution containing hFAS polypeptides as the analyte. These assays may be performed as a sandwich or competitive assay. Additional examples of such devices or strips are those designed for home testing or rapid point of care testing. Further examples include those that are designed for the simultaneous analysis of multiple analytes in a single sample.

An unlabeled antibody of the invention may be applied to a test or capture region of such a device or strip in an immobilized form to capture hFAS polypeptides in the solution as it flows past. In some embodiments the captured or immobilized hFAS polypeptides may be bound to a labeled form of an anti hFAS antibody of the invention such that the complex of a polypeptide and antibody is captured or immobilized in the test or capture region. The labeled antibody may be associated with or dried onto the device in another region of the device or strip such that the antibody contacts said solution before the solution arrives at the test or capture region. The contact permits the labeled antibody to be dissolved into and move along with the solution while also permitting the labeled antibody to form a complex with hFAS polypeptide s if present in the solution.

The solution is preferably a biological fluid sample from a subject such as a human being. The range of biological fluids which may be used in the practice of the disclosed invention includes any fluid in which hFAS may be detectably present. Non limiting examples include the bodily secretions of a subject such as saliva tears mucous nasal discharge and vaginal secretions as well as other bodily fluids such as blood serum plasma semen seminal fluid effusions ascites cerebrospinal fluid breast aspirates fluids of ovarian origin and urine as well as any fluid component of feces or a fluid extract of feces. Dilutions of such fluids may of course also be used as the sample in the practice of the disclosed invention.

The antibodies of the invention may also be used in methods based upon the detection or measurement of hFAS. While the details of the methods of the disclosed invention may vary with the particular format employed the method of detecting or measuring hFAS polypeptide s in a sample generally comprises the contacting the sample with an antibody which specifically reacts under immunologically reactive conditions to the antibody. The antibody may be labeled or unlabeled because antibodies can be detected and or quantified using any of a number of well recognized immunological binding assays see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 366 241 4 376 110 4 517 288 and 4 837 168 .

For a review of general immunoassays that may be practiced with the antibodies of the invention see also METHODS IN CELL BIOLOGY VOL. 37 Asai ed. Academic Press Inc. New York 1993 BASIC AND CLINICAL IMMUNOLOGY 7TH EDITION Stites Terr eds. 1991 . Immunological binding assays or immunoassays typically utilize a ligand hFAS polypeptide s as disclosed herein to specifically bind to and or immobilize an antibody. In such assays incubation and or washing steps may be required after each combination of reagents. Incubation steps can vary from about 5 seconds to several hours preferably from about 5 minutes to about 24 hours. However the incubation time will depend upon the assay format antibody volume of solution concentrations and the like. Usually the assays will be carried out at ambient temperature although they can be conducted over a range of temperatures such as 10 C. to 40 C.

Other antibody based assay methods provided by the disclosed invention include those based on immuno diffusion immunoelectrophoresis immunohistopathology immunohistochemistry and histopathology. The methods may include the use of calorimetric chemiluminscent electrochemiluminescent or fluorescent techniques in combination with an antibody or antibody fragment of the invention. An additional method is the use of a competitive assay as provided by U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 791.

The detection or measurement of hFAS may optionally be performed in the presence of agents to reduce non specific binding reactions as known to the skilled person. Thus methods including the use of an agent which reduces non specific binding are provided by the disclosed invention. Non limiting examples of means to reduce non specific binding include the use of buffer additives such as but not limited to carrier proteins like bovine serum albumin the inclusion of detergent s and adjustment of ionic strength.

The detection of the presence of hFAS polypeptides in a sample may be performed as a diagnostic for the presence of a disease such as cancer. In other embodiments the disease may be alcoholic hepatitis or steatohepatitis which is optionally detected via the presence of above normal FAS in liver cells such as that of a liver biopsy or in a serum containing fluid as described herein. The detection of alcoholic hepatitis or steatohepatitis may be by use of any FAS binding antibody including those of the disclosed invention and those previously known to the skilled person.

The detection may be performed as a prognostic indicator of disease outcome including survival outcome for a subject with a disease associated with increased levels of hFAS expression. The detection may also be used in methods to monitor the course or recurrence of a disease in a subject based upon the correlation of the presence or level of hFAS to the disease. Non limiting examples include the likelihood of metastasis of a cancer the grade of a tumor and the clinical stage of a disease.

In other embodiments the detection is used in relation to determining whether to administer a FAS inhibitor to a patient based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in a sample from the patient and the skill or experience of a clinical practitioner or other health care provider. The determination may be directed toward the treatment of disease which is diagnosed based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in the sample such that administration of a FAS inhibitor or other agent to treat the disease is palliative. The administration of a FAS inhibitor or other treatment agent may be considered chemotherapy targeted at FAS to treat the disease and or its symptoms.

In further embodiments the determination may be used in relation to the prevention of disease which is indicated as possible based on the presence or level of hFAS polypeptide s in the sample and the experience of a skilled practitioner. The determination of a disease state as being possible or likely based upon detection of hFAS is followed by administration of a FAS inhibitor or other agent to prevent the disease from occurring or reducing its severity or extent if it occurs. Thus the disclosed invention includes embodiments in the field of chemoprevention of disease based upon inhibition of fatty acid synthesis.

Additional methods of the disclosed invention include treatment of a subject by administering an antibody antibody fragment antibody containing conjugate or antibody containing fusion polypeptide as described herein to inhibit FAS activity or target a site wherein FAS is expressed or present. Non limiting examples include direct administration of an antibody of the invention to a subject such as injection into a cell containing portion of a subject s body to allow uptake of the antibody. Alternatively a nucleic acid molecule or construct encoding an antibody of the invention may be administered such as by direct injection into a cell containing portion of a subject s body to allow cellular uptake of the nucleic acid followed by expression of the antibody. The subject may be a human being and the disclosed invention provides for analogous methods comprising administration of an antibody fragment antibody containing conjugate or antibody containing fusion polypeptide as described herein.

The disclosed invention also provides for the detection of or measurement of hFAS polypeptide s as one component in the providing of medical care to a patient. Non limiting examples include the providing of diagnostic services in conjunction with providing treatment as medical care. Thus the disclosed invention includes a method in the medical care of a patient the method comprising measuring the presence or expression of hFAS in a sample obtained from the patient. A method in the medical care of a patient may comprise any method as disclosed herein. The method optionally includes interpretation of the results from the detection or measurement of hFAS. The detection or measurement may be for use in relation to any aspect or embodiment of the invention as described herein.

As one non limiting example the detection or measurement may be preceded by a determination of a need for assessing hFAS such as a determination by a medical doctor nurse or other health care provider or those working under their instruction. The determination may also have been made by personnel of a health insurance or maintenance organization in approving the performance of the detection or measurement as a basis to request reimbursement or payment for the performance.

In another non limiting embodiment the disclosed invention provides a method of ordering or receiving an order for the performance of a method in the medical care of a patient or other method as described herein. The ordering may be made by a medical doctor a nurse or other health care provider or those working under their instruction while the receiving of an order directly or indirectly may be by any personnel who performs the methods.

The disclosed invention also provides methods in the processing of payment or reimbursement for a detection or measurement of hFAS as described herein. A method in the processing of reimbursement or payment may comprise making an indication that 1 payment is pending or yet to be received or past due 2 payment has been received 3 payment is insufficient or inadequate or 4 payment will be made by another payer on paper or electronically such as in a database or other computer readable medium after performance of a hFAS detection or measurement method of the disclosed invention. The database may be in any form including electronic forms such as a computer implemented database as a non limiting example. The indication made may be in the form of or include a code on paper or in electronic or computer readable form. In some embodiments of the disclosed invention the code may include 88342 for immunohistochemistry interpretation. Where another payer is implicated request for payment may be to a person or entity beyond the original payer to whom a previous invoice or statement for payment or was sent or communicated.

Alternatively the method may comprise receiving payment for the technical performance of a method of detecting or measuring hFAS in the medical care of a patient or for the interpretation of the results there from. Of course the disclosed invention also includes embodiments wherein another person or party receives payment or is instructed to receive payment. The receipt may be from any entity including an insurance company health maintenance organization governmental health agency a patient or family member of the patient as non limiting examples. The payment may be in whole or in part. In the case of a patient the payment may be in the form of a partial payment known as a co pay.

In yet another embodiment the method may comprise forwarding or having forwarded an invoice or other request for payment to an insurance company health maintenance organization governmental health agency or to a patient for the performance of the a method comprising detecting or measuring hFAS in the medical care of a patient. The request may be made by mail electronically telephonically in person or by facsimile.

In a further embodiment a method may comprise receiving indication of approval for payment or denial of payment for performance of a method of detecting or measuring hFAS in the medical care of a patient. Such an indication may come from any person or party to whom a request for payment was made. Non limiting examples include an insurance company health maintenance organization or a governmental health agency like Medicare or Medicaid as non limiting examples. The indication may be by mail electronically telephonically in person or by facsimile.

An additional embodiment is a method comprising sending a request for reimbursement for performance of a method of detecting or measuring hFAS in the medical care of a patient. Such a request may be made by mail electronically telephonically in person or by facsimile. The request may have been made to an insurance company health maintenance organization federal health agency or the patient for whom the method was performed.

A further method comprises indicating the need for reimbursement or payment on a form or into a database for performance of a method of detecting or measuring hFAS in the medical care of a patient. Alternatively the method may simply comprise indicating the performance of the method. The database may be in any form with electronic forms such as a computer implemented database included as a non limiting example. The indicating may be in the form of a code or other indication on paper or in the database.

In the above methods in the medical care of a patient the method may comprise reporting the results of the method optionally to a health care facility a health care provider a doctor a nurse or personnel working therefore. The reporting may also be communicated directly or indirectly to the patient. The reporting may have been by mail electronically telephonically in person or by facsimile.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising an antibody antibody fragment antibody containing conjugate or antibody containing fusion polypeptide of the invention are also provided. Such pharmaceutical preparations and formulations may be used in the methods described herein. Non limiting examples include diagnostic methods of the disclosed invention for detection of FAS and therapeutic methods of the disclosed invention where a therapeutic FAS inhibitor is administered following detection of FAS as described herein. Alternative non limiting embodiments include the administration of a toxin conjugated antibody or antibody fragment or administration of an antibody or antibody fragment that directly inhibits FAS activity. Compositions comprising an antibody or antibody fragment of the invention in combination with another FAS inhibitor are also provided. In many embodiments compositions and formulations of the disclosed invention are for use with human subjects in vivo or ex vivo. Compositions and formulations may of course include a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent excipient salt and or protein stabilizer.

In both therapeutic and diagnostic applications an antibody or antibody fragment of the invention may be formulated for different modes of administration including systemic or localized administration. General techniques and formulations known to the skilled person are found in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 20th ed. Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2000 .

An antibody or antibody fragment of the invention may be used over a range of amounts. The exact amount will depend upon the route of administration the form in which an antibody or fragment thereof is administered the subject to be treated depending upon factors such as the body weight of the subject and the preference and experience of the skilled person such as a physician.

Pharmaceutically acceptable diluents and excipients are physiological tolerable and compatible. Non limiting examples include water saline dextrose glycerol or the like and combinations thereof. Additionally and if desired a composition or formulation may contain an auxiliary substance such as a wetting or emulsifying agent or a pH buffering agent.

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are known to the skilled person. Non limiting examples include but are not limited to acetate benzenesulfonate besylate benzoate bicarbonate bitartrate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate citrate edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isethionate lactate lactobionate malate maleate mandelate mesylate mucate napsylate nitrate pamoate embonate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate sulfate tannate tartrate or teoclate. Other acceptable salts and agents are found for example in Remington as cited above.

Compositions and formulations may be prepared for parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intraventricular intravenous intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections. Preparations for transdermal administration are also provided. One non limiting example is seen in the topical application to melanoma on or near the surface of a subject.

Direct delivery of a composition is provided by the disclosed invention. Non limiting examples include direct injection into the site of a tumor such as into the tumor itself or into a particular tissue such as the liver. As a further non limiting example delivery may be to a site of liver tissue after resection. Thus localized delivery may be used in the practice of the disclosed invention.

An antibody or antibody fragment of the invention may be formulated in aqueous solutions for example in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank s solution Ringer s solution or physiological saline buffer. In some embodiments inclusion of a penetrant appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are included. Such penetrants are known to the skilled person. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier may also be used in a composition or formulation for the practice of the disclosed invention as dosages for systemic administration. A composition or formulation may also be in the form of a suspension or solid form suitable for solution in or suspension in a liquid prior to injection.

Pharmaceutical compositions for use in the disclosed invention include those wherein an antibody or fragment thereof are present in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose.

Compositions comprising a nucleic acid molecule encoding an antibody antibody fragment or antibody containing fusion polypeptide of the invention are also provided. Such compositions may be formulated depending on the nature of the nucleic acid such as but not limited to whether it is the molecule per se or the molecule in the form of a packaged viral vector that is to be administered.

The compositions may be formulated for parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intraventricular intravenous intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections. Preparations for transdermal administration such as to melanoma on the surface of a patient are also provided.

Localized or direct delivery of a nucleic acid of the disclosed invention is also provided. Non limiting examples include direct injection into the site of a tumor such as into the tumor itself or into a particular tissue such as the liver such that the nucleic acid will be taken up by cells at or near the site of injection. After uptake the nucleic acid which is capable of expressing the encoded antibody or antibody related polypeptide will be expressed to produce antibody or antibody related polypeptide in the cells. As a further non limiting example delivery of a nucleic acid capable of expressing an antibody or antibody related polypeptide in a liver cell may be to a site of liver tissue after resection to result in the expression of hFAS binding activity in that location.

The disclosed invention provides kits for the detection of hFAS or an immunoreactive fragment thereof i.e. collectively a hFAS protein in a biological sample as described herein. Biological samples also include sections of tissues such as fresh frozen or fixed sections taken for histological purposes. A kit will typically comprise an anti hFAS antibody of the disclosed invention or a preparation of antibodies that is immunoreactive with epitopes present on an hFAS polypeptide. In some embodiments the anti hFAS antibody will be an antibody fragment.

A kit of the disclosed invention may also include instructional materials disclosing or describing the use of the kit or an antibody of the disclosed invention in a method of the disclosed invention as provided herein. A kit may also include additional components to facilitate the particular application for which the kit is designed. Thus for example a kit may additionally contain means of detecting the label e.g. enzyme substrates for enzymatic labels filter sets to detect fluorescent labels appropriate secondary labels such as a sheep anti mouse HRP or the like . A kit may additionally include buffers and other reagents recognized for use in a method of the disclosed invention. Non limiting examples include agents to reduce non specific binding such as a carrier protein or a detergent.

In some embodiments of the disclosed invention the kit is a diagnostic kit comprising an immunoassay as described herein. Although the details of the immunoassays of the disclosed invention may vary with the particular format employed the method of detecting hFAS in a sample generally comprises the contacting of the sample with an antibody which specifically reacts under immunologically reactive conditions to hFAS. The antibody is allowed to bind to hFAS under immunologically reactive conditions and the presence of the bound antibody is detected directly or indirectly.

Having now generally described the invention the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the disclosed invention unless specified.

General methods of producing polyclonal antibodies are known to the skilled person in the field. Additionally methods for the preparation of monoclonal antibodies as well as derivatives and fragments thereof are known. Typically both include the use of hFAS protein or polypeptides thereof to immunize an antibody producing animal. The hFAS protein may be a purified material that has been obtained from a suitable source such as but not limited to human cells that produce hFAS protein.

As a non limiting example a procedure adapted from Linn TC 1981 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 209 613 619 may be used. Briefly ZR 75 1 cells are grown to approximately 80 90 confluence rinsed with HBSS and lysed on ice. The lysed cells are scraped off and homogenized on ice followed by centrifugation at 4 C. The supernatant is removed and resuspended in lysis buffer 20 mM Tris HCl ph 7.5 1 mM EDTA 0.1 mM PMSF 0.1 Igepal CA 630 with 7.5 PEG average MW 8000 .

The resultant solution is rocked at 4 C. for 60 minutes centrifuged at 4 C. followed by removal of supernatant to a new bottle. PEG 8000 in lysis buffer is added until final concentration of PEG is 15 followed by repeat of the rocking and centrifugation steps. Remove supernatant and resuspend pellet in 20 mM KHPO pH 7.4 and rock solution at 4 C. overnight followed by filtration through a 0.45 m filter. Load filtered solution onto a Mono Q column and elute with 20 mM KHPO pH 7.4 in a continuous gradient up to 1M KCl. Analyze fractions by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis for FAS. Identify and pool fractions containing FAS of approximate MW 270 kD.

In the preparation of antibodies of the invention however it may be preferred to not use an immunogen or methods as provided in Example 16 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 759 791 in order to reduce the likelihood of producing a monoclonal antibody as described therein. As a non limiting example intrasplenic immunization as known to the skilled person may be used see for example 12 3 1989 . The M3 M6 and anti Hpr antibodies were not prepared by use of intrasplenic immunization.

Rows of an ELISA plate were coated with 100 l per well of Positive Capture Antibody at a 2.5 g ml of each Mab in combination 63 2D8 and 63 4G4 5 g ml total antibody in PBS coating buffer Sigma Cat P 3813 or equivalent . Other rows were coated with 100 l per well of Negative Capture Antibody at a 2.5 g ml of each Mab in combination two Mabs directed to antigen other than FAS 5 g ml total antibody in PBS coating buffer. The coated plates could be stored at 4 C. overnight. The plates were washed 4 times with PBS wash buffer Sigma Cat P 3813 or equivalent with Tween 20 and thimerosal .

Plates were blocked with 150 l per well of ELISA Dilution Blocking Buffer Sigma Cat P 3813 or equivalent with Hepes Triton X BSA normal goat IgG normal rabbit IgG and mouse MAb and incubated 1 hour at 37 C. The plates were washed 4 times with PBS wash buffer. hFAS protein positive antigen negative antigen and unknowns were added to the plate.

A titration of hFAS protein was performed by serially diluting the protein from 313 ng ml to 1.2 ng ml in ELISA Dilution Blocking Buffer on the ELISA plate in both positive and negative coated wells. Each set of wells contains 100 l of each antigen dilution once titration is performed. Add ELISA Dilution Blocking Buffer to at least 3 wells of negative and positive coated wells as negative antigen controls. Unknown samples were diluted 1 2 in Dilution Blocking Buffer in 100 l volume are added to duplicate wells of both positive and negative capture coated wells.

Plates were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. and then washed 4 times with PBS wash buffer. 100 l of biotinylated detector antibody Mab 63 3C10 was added at a concentration of 0.313 g ml in ELISA Dilution Blocking buffer to each well. Plates were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. followed by washing 4 times with PBS wash buffer.

100 l Conjugate HRP labeled streptavidin diluted to 0.05 g ml was added to each well. The plates were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. and washed 4 times with PBS wash buffer. Substrate ABTS 2 component was prepared and 100 l of combined substrate was added to each well followed by incubation for 30 minutes at 37 C.

Optical density OD between 405 and 410 nm was measured. OD values are compared between the negative antigen controls and the FAS standard curve. Sensitivity or lowest point of detection LPD is determined by choosing the concentration of FAS at the OD value greater than the mean value of the negative antigen controls. The LPD should normally be approximately 0.100 greater than the mean of the negative control. It should be noted however that the above definition of LPD is arbitrary and that other LPD s may be used in the practice of the disclosed invention. The OD values in the negative capture wells should be below 0.300 OD for all samples and controls.

The ELISA plates could be read by the unassisted eye. A color change in the well with greater intensity than the no antigen negative controls are considered positive.

All references cited herein including patents patent applications and publications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties whether previously specifically incorporated or not.

Having now fully described the invention it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the same can be performed within a wide range of equivalent parameters concentrations and conditions without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and without undue experimentation.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

