---

title: System and method for tactical distributed event warning notification for individual entities, and computer program product therefor
abstract: An information system, method, and computer program product is provided for the distributed warning of existing or developing significant events and/or threats to users carrying a user warning and positioning device, while reporting the location of all user's carrying the user warning and positioning devices of the system to existing command and control systems. The present invention's future event warning capabilities permit those same users to be warned of impending events in enough time for the users to take positive actions in response to these events and/or address those events. The system of the present invention includes a pager-like user warning and positioning device, worn by or carried by the individual user, or mounted in a vehicle or vessel, having a geographical positioning means therein, which periodically transmits the geographical location of the individual user, vehicle or vessel, and listens for warning/notification event messages transmitted by a network bridge or situational awareness workstation (central processing means). When an event/threat warning is received by the user warning and positioning device, the pager-like user warning and positioning alerts the user via indicia relative to the event/situation, including audible spoken warnings and instructions on how to react, and may retransmit the event/threat warning to other user warning and positioning devices in the network, provided the threat has not occurred and the event/threat warning has not been previously relayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07602281&OS=07602281&RS=07602281
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07602281
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060719
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 764 388 entitled System and Method for Tactical Distributed Event Warning Notification for Individual Entities and filed Jan. 26 2006 which is fully incorporated herein by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment or any royalty thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to the field of communications notification and warning systems and more particularly to a network information system that combines hardware components and a corresponding computer software system to provide a distributed system and method for real time event warning notification to numerous individual entities across dispersed locations via one or more central event threat receiving stations one or more network bridges and one or more user warning and positioning devices.

One of the salient features of today s modern organizations on a global national regional and local level is the ability to leverage information technology to command and control systems in real or near real time. Advances in the technologies that integrate sensor and communications systems for instance facilitate determination of the precise location of mobile vehicles. Also a plurality of modem information systems permit such location determination including space airborne terrestrial and marine based command and control systems.

Every vehicle equipped with such a command and control system is able to determine the location using global positioning system GPS technology and then report that vehicle s information to higher command structures systems using secure wireless linkages. Vehicles equipped with command and control systems also receive a variety of messages from higher command structures systems including the known locations of other related vehicles and other unknown or suspected locations of non related vehicles. Command and control systems also allow vehicles to send and receive warning messages and in turn permit for instance the alerting of related vehicles about such significant events whether developing or in progress.

Though command and control systems warning messages are often manually generated there are other information systems in use today such as weather and tsunami stations that automatically generate threat warning messages without human intervention. One of the military systems that automatically generates a threat warning message is the AN TPQ 36 Firefinder Counter fire Radar which is able to detect projectiles in flight compute their predicted points of origin and predicted points of impact and automatically broadcast this information to other systems. The above described system still leaves the most numerous and vulnerable assets humans exposed to threats. Thus there is a need to significantly enhance survivability.

Accordingly there is a need for a network information system that allows command organizations structures to know the location in real time of all their remote human assets such as dismounted soldiers emergency responders remote construction crews etc. as well as warn those assets whenever an event such as a threat exists or is inbound. These warnings must be expeditiously distributed received and processed to permit sufficient time for potentially affected human assets to alter their protective posture and or take positive actions in response to the predicted event. In the past this quick response time has not been achieved in practice. This is understandable when considering the vast number of end systems and resulting costs required to equip every remote human asset in a field of operations.

Accordingly there is a need for a system that enables training simulation and rehearsal capabilities along with real time use by organizations first responders public safety emergency management personnel etc. for providing warning of harmful events such as natural disasters medical emergencies military threats homeland security events and natural disaster incidents. In addition there is a need for remotely located individuals such as skiers hikers etc. to be provided with warning of harmful events such as sudden violent weather changes avalanches and natural disasters. Further there is a need for remotely located vehicles and vessels to be provided with a warning of potentially harmful events such as for example violent ocean conditions sea state changes and tidal waves.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a networked information system and method that combines a plurality of components to effectively distribute a real time event warning notification to many individual entities across dispersed locations as well as a computer program product therefor. These individual entities in turn can then determine at the individual point whether or not these predicted events pertain to their locales and react accordingly.

It is another object of the present invention to enable the networked information system to monitor other connected information systems for externally and internally generated event warning notification messages.

It is yet another object of the present invention to transmit event warning notification messages on a secure wireless network whenever these are received.

It is another object of the present invention to retransmit received event warning notification messages to other user warning devices that may not have received the original message.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a tailored event warning notification to a user of the networked information system method and computer program product of the present invention based on message and user defined setup parameters.

Still a further object of the present invention is to track the location of each equipped organization individual human asset and or vehicle and periodically report this information to designated command and control organizations structures whether space based airborne terrestrial and or marine based using standard or customized messaging formats.

Another object of the present invention is to enable the warning of each equipped organization individual human asset vehicle or other entity every time a significant event is predicted to occur or impact within a given distance from the individual user s location. In doing so it is desirable that the distance parameter be kept to a minimum to preclude false positives but also account for an expected event radius or area as well as for errors in determining the location of the user and of the predicted point of event or impact.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a secure network system by using encrypted communications. However the end system itself should not compromise friendly forces even when captured intact by an opponent. This means that the information contained in the devices carried by individual assets should be minimal and of extremely limited utility to an adversary in the case of a military or confidential application.

Furthermore it is an object of the present invention to incorporate mechanisms that allow lost or captured devices to be selectively excluded from participating in the network.

It is still another object of the present invention to permit assets users to carry an unobtrusive user warning notification device that is of minimal size. It is also an object of the present invention that the system user warning device be capable of operating for extended periods of times on the order of weeks and months in a tactical environment with no required user interaction.

It is a further object of the present invention that the networked information system method and computer program product of the present invention be applicable to training simulation and rehearsal along with real time use by organizations such as first responders public safety emergency management personnel and provide warning of harmful events such as emergency response homeland security natural disaster incidents. In addition it is an object of the present invention that the system method and computer program product be applicable to remotely located individuals such as skiers hikers etc. to be provided warning of harmful events such as sudden violent weather changes avalanches natural disasters etc.

Further it is an object of the present invention that same be applicable to remotely located vehicles and vessels so as to provide warning of harmful events such as violent ocean conditions sea state changes tidal waves for example.

It is also an object of the present invention in order to overcome the difficulties discussed above to provide a system and software program product for use in such a system to automatically facilitate the real time user warning notification to many individual entities across dispersed locations.

These and other objects in advantages of this invention will become apparent when considered in light of the following description when taken together with the accompanying drawings.

Accordingly the present invention provides a robust versatile and cost effective solution for event warning notification for individual entities. Unlike other notification approaches this method allows for remote and virtually instantaneous distributed notification of future events or threats.

The present invention has been made to solve the problems associated with the prior art inability to cost effectively provide real time warning notification to numerous remotely located human assets users as described above. In order to achieve the objects of the present invention as discussed above the present inventors have earnestly endeavored to create a network information system method and computer program product to use in the network information system to effectively distribute to numerous individuals over a dispersed area event warning messages in a timely fashion.

In particular in a first embodiment of the present invention a network event warning system enabling distribution of event warning messages to one or more individual entities within the network information system is provided comprising 

In a second embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the bridge application program code further comprises 

In a third embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the bridge application program code further comprises 

In a fourth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the bridge application program code further comprises 

In a fifth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the bridge application program code further comprises 

In a sixth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment above is provided wherein the user warning and positioning device application program code further comprises 

In a seventh embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the user warning and positioning device application program code further comprises 

In an eighth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the user warning and positioning device application program code further comprises 

In a ninth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the user warning and positioning devices are capable of communicating over wired or wireless systems to the network bridges and other user warning devices.

In a tenth embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the user warning and positioning device application program code further comprises 

In an eleventh embodiment of the present invention the network event warning system of the first embodiment is provided wherein the bridge application program code further comprises 

In a twelfth embodiment of the present invention a computer program product for tactical distributed event warning over a network event warning system is provided comprising 

In a thirteenth embodiment of the present invention the computer program product of the twelfth embodiment above is provided wherein the network bridge application program code further comprises 

In a fourteenth embodiment of the present invention the computer program product of the twelfth embodiment above is provided wherein the network bridge application program code further comprises 

In a fifteenth embodiment of the present invention the computer program product of the twelfth embodiment above is provided wherein the network bridge application program code further comprises 

In a sixteenth embodiment of the present invention the computer program product of the twelfth embodiment is provided wherein the network bridge application program code further comprises 

In a seventeenth embodiment of the present invention a method for receiving and tactically distributing event warnings is provided said method comprising the steps of 

In an eighteenth embodiment of the present invention the method for receiving and tactically distributing event warnings of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided further comprising the step of establishing and maintaining communication between the bridge sensors user warning devices and command and control systems using different networks and protocols 

In a nineteenth embodiment of the present invention the method for receiving and tactically distributing event warnings of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided further comprising 

In a twentieth embodiment of the present invention the method for receiving and tactically distributing event warnings of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided further comprising converting valid event warning messages to human voice warnings with instructions on what subsequent action to take.

In a twenty first embodiment of the present invention the method for receiving and tactically distributing event warnings of the seventeenth embodiment above is provided further comprising sending messages from one or more of the network bridges to one or more of user warning and positioning devices to either alter reconfigure or disable one or more of the user warning and positioning devices.

The following section describes various preferred embodiments of the present invention while exemplifying the distributed event warning notification system method and computer program software of the present invention.

The present invention applies engineering design principles to improve commercial products and military applications for situational awareness and event warning. The present invention is a networked information system that combines hardware components wireless technologies and computer software programs to provide a distributed system and method for real time event warning notification to many individual entities across dispersed locations.

These entities in turn determine whether or not these events pertain to their locales and react accordingly. For instance if the system is notified that an artillery shell is in the air and will strike a certain point at a certain time this message will be distributed to all nodes within the system i.e. all user warning and positioning devices allowing the nodes within the danger radius to alert their users while all other nodes remain silent. The present invention supports a plurality of network types e.g. radio local area networks etc.

The present invention s system architecture satisfies the present invention s objectives by determining at the user location whether a user such as a public safety professional or soldier is inside a predicted future event area. This system and method achieves same by comparing the location of an individual user at the time of receipt of the future event warning at the user warning and positioning device with each known event or threat area to determine whether or not said user must be warned at that time or at a later time up through the predicted future time of the event as the user changes geographic locations. This is the most computationally intensive calculation required to satisfy the system and method objectives as errors in this calculation can either erode trust in the system or result in injury or death or both of the user. Accordingly the present invention s architecture permits the ongoing computation of user locations and threat areas at the end user warning and positioning devices from the time of receipt of the future event warning message at the user warning and positioning device up to the predicted future event time.

The present invention further provides a robust solution in the case of the loss compromise or incapacitation of a computational node e.g. the user warning device by affecting only the individual user such as a public safety professional or soldier for example. Specifically according to the present invention network bridges are utilized to connect the user warning and positioning devices to the command and control and sensor systems wherein the user warning and positioning devices are not affiliated with a specific network bridge. Instead each user warning and positioning device is able to exchange messages with any other system component whether another user warning and positioning device or a network bridge. The present invention is advantageous in that it increases the robustness of the ability to provide warnings within an event area or structure such as a building since each node is often multi homed.

Accordingly illustrates the distributed warning notification method and system of the present invention. One or more situational awareness workstation and threat warning gateways hereinafter gateways is established that provides the principle data management in communication with network bridge structures A B C etc. which in turn are in communication with user warning and positioning devices on assets etc. being humans in this example. Event warning information concerning an event locale e.g. area XY is delivered to the gateways. Subsequently an event warning message is communicated to network bridges A B and C and in turn communicated to the user warning and positioning devices in communication therewith. Location position information of the assets users is generated in the user warning and positioning devices via a geographical positioning means GPS located therein and periodically communicated to network bridges e.g. A B C etc. via wireless transmission means.

The location information received from the individual user warning and positioning devices is then communicated from the network bridges to the gateways. For example as shown in for Area XY there is an event warning message that is communicated to the gateway and subsequently location and event warning notification information in the form of an event warning message is communicated between individual user warning and positioning devices individual nodes the network bridges local nodes and the gateway. Moreover event and asset location information is communicated not only to those assets individual nodes within the affected or threat area but also to and between assets not in the affected or threat area. Thus threat and location information is communicated to all associated user warning and positioning devices in the system.

The present invention s system includes three types of nodes the gateways central nodes the network bridge devices local nodes and user warning and positioning devices individual nodes e.g. pager sized modularized user warning and positioning devices as illustrated in . The network bridge devices communicate on at least two separate networks. Most commonly one of these networks is the network over which the pager size user warning and positioning devices communicate. The other network s allows the system to receive externally generated event warning notification messages.

The pager sized user warning and positioning devices communicate wirelessly with the network bridge devices that receive alerts from the situational awareness workstation and threat warning gateway other network bridge devices other user warning and positioning devices and or other information systems communicating over a wired or wireless network. According to the present invention although a fixed infrastructure may be utilized there is no need for a fixed infrastructure. Given the need for user warning and positioning devices to communicate with each other as well as with any network bridges within range the wireless communications subsystem must support a large number of nodes i.e. a large number of network bridges and user warning and positioning devices operating simultaneously within a broadcast environment.

Furthermore since the system of the present invention can be deployed to hundreds of assets e.g. soldiers in a theater of operation emergency response personnel etc. the wireless communications subsystem must also provide a mechanism for breaking up broadcast domains. The present invention permits different domains to be assigned to the various user warning and positioning devices so that said devices may operate in close proximity to each other without interfering with each other s receiving and transmitting functions.

The present invention also provides for adaptive power management. The user warning and positioning device transmits at the lowest possible power level in order to conserve energy as well as to minimize the risk of enemy detection in military or law enforcement applications. Alternately the user warning and positioning devices is capable of transmitting at a fairly high power level when operating in challenging environments such as densely developed urban areas or mountainous environments or when the user e.g. a soldier is laying prone or the asset s vehicle has a low profile. Thus the present invention s communications module s output power is configurable in a flexible manner by the user warning and positioning device s computer processing means.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the user warning and positioning device s configuration file encryption key and or software is updated using a physical or secure wireless connection from a trusted source. This trust like the validity of received event warning messages is based on a digital signature. The present invention s physical connections for updates permit the system to be securely reconfigured when a key or device has been compromised.

Also the present invention considers the potential exploitation of these devices by adversaries in the military or law enforcement applications. Given the fact that the user warning and positioning devices are configured to periodically generate and transmit location reports to the network bridges and on to the gateways and or CCS s it may be possible for an enemy to triangulate the position of each user warning and positioning device. To address this threat the user warning and positioning devices communications module provides the capability to thwart basic triangulation effort by for example utilizing spread spectrum technologies.

Spread spectrum techniques are methods in which energy generated at a single frequency is deliberately spread over a wide band of frequencies. This is done for a variety of reasons including increasing resistance to natural interference or jamming and to prevent hostile detection. A contemporary application of this technique is used in the Single Channel Ground and Airborne Radio System SINCGARS by changing frequencies frequency hopping several times per second. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the user warning and positioning device similarly uses frequency hopping spread spectrum techniques to thwart possible triangulation efforts.

The system and method of the present invention provide for the integration of the event information and warning notification. Based upon the present invention s exemplary applications the resulting general method steps can be understood as follows 

Step 1 An action event occurs that generates a predictable event s that will occur in the future. Example An enemy artillery battery shoots at a friendly unit location. 

Step 2 The action event is detected by an action detection means via direct or indirect means such as for example optical electromagnetic radio frequency and or acoustic methods that discretely or in combination characterize the initial and or ongoing action. Example A friendly artillery locating radar picks up the incoming enemy artillery round and accurately measures its ballistic based path of flight . Action characterization information is the formulated and the action characterization information subsequently fed to an event prediction determination process as described in Step 3.

Step 3 The action characterization information is processed and analyzed in a timely manner. The result of this analysis generates predicted corresponding future event and associated relevant information defined as an event warning message. The event warning message includes for example event type e.g. enemy attack approaching severe weather etc. predicted location area impacted by the event predicted start time of the event and predicted duration of the event. For example a command and control system CCS associated with friendly artillery locating radar uses the ballistic based path of flight and speed of the enemy artillery round information received from the friendly artillery locating radar to determine the predicted Time of Impact PTD and predicted point of impact PPI of the enemy artillery round with corresponding affected area footprint considering any ballistic measurement errors .

Step 4 The event warning message is universally distributed to all nodes i.e. all network bridges and all user warning and positioning devices within the information network without regard to whether a specific node will be affected by the future event. While this so called distributed method which involves communication to all nodes whether in the affected area or not exerts increased load on the communications network e.g. increased use of bandwidth versus a centralized network configuration wherein the event warning message is sent only to the network bridge and user warning and positioning devices in the affected area the distributed network configuration of the present invention provides rapid and accurate event warning notification to individual nodes since there are no time delays or asset location errors associated with unit position reporting latencies and centralized computational processes to determine which individual nodes will be specifically impacted by an event. Thus the present invention permits very short warning notification time windows between event detection and impact on individual entities. Example A CCS generates a set of strike warning messages that are electronically transmitted to all user nodes within the network .

Step 5 Optionally if either the communications network information network and or versions of components within the system of the present invention are heterogeneous in nature then a translation of the event warning message may be required in terms of format and content to insure compatibility and continuity of timely transmittal as the event warning message makes it way to the user warning and positioning devices. For example the CCS generates a variable message format VMF based strike warning message s . The unit borne system addressed for receipt of this strike warning message is only able to parse and understand extensible Markup Language XML based messages. An interim system device process is required to translate the strike warning message from VMF to XML. 

Step 6 The user warning and positioning devices receive and locally parse process the future event warning message in a timely manner via a computer processing means running the user warning device computer program product of the present invention. Whenever an event warning message is received by the user warning and positioning device the predicted time of the event is compared to the local time to determine whether or not the event will occur at some future time. If it will the event warning message s authenticity is automatically verified by examining its digital signature. If the signature is valid the locale that is affected by the future event is automatically compared to the location of the user warning and positioning device. If the user warning and positioning device is within the affected area it will notify the user based on the time remaining until the future event via the sensory notification means. The sensory notification means may include audible alarms audible spoken warnings and instructions visual alarms such as flashing lights and or vibrations mechanisms.

The user warning and positioning device will also re transmit the received event warning message to other network bridges and user warning and positioning devices so that other nodes that may not be in range of the original transmission by the network bridge may also receive the event warning message. All invalid or elapsed event warning messages are logged and then discarded. The re transmission feature on the user warning and positioning device can be disabled to prolong power life or to reduce the risk of detection by enemy assets in military and law enforcement applications. Example A pager sized user warning and positioning device carried by an individual dismounted soldier receives and validates an XML base strike event warning message. Computational logic within this device activates several notification mechanisms found within the device to alert the soldier of an impending enemy strike in his area .

Step 7 Based on the set of alert actions selected by the user for his user warning and positioning device i.e. the user can select the types of alerts given by his device according to the situation the user is warned notified via one or more sensory means prior to and during the time period of the event occurrence. As discussed above these sensory indicia include auditory visual and or physical stimulation of an individual s bodily senses. Example A pager sized user warning and positioning device carried by a soldier can be programmed to both vibrate and sound an audible alarm when receiving an event warning message to notify the affected soldier to change his protective posture prior to impact of an enemy artillery round in his locale .

The present invention s network bridge s provides two principle functions. First it provides an interface between the user warning and positioning devices and the external systems that receive generate and utilize warning notification information. In this role the network bridge translates messages received from other systems into event warning messages. It also translates messages received from the individual user warning and positioning devices into other message formats utilized by other different and multiple command and control systems. Thus the network bridge also filters messages that should not be sent from one network to the other e.g. spot reports coming from a terrestrial command and control system.

Second the network bridge acts as a management device for the individual user warning and positioning devices. The network bridge keeps track of the status of the user warning and positioning devices with which it has communications contact and permits the selective disablement or remote alteration of any individual user warning and positioning device that appears to have been compromised or lost. The network bridge is capable of configuring and reconfiguring any parameter in the individual user warning and positioning devices e.g. by changing the URN of a replacement user warning and positioning device issued to a soldier.

The present invention s network bridge communicates with sensor warning and command and control systems that use different networks and protocols. For example the present invention s network bridge can use the internet protocol IP at the network layer. Moreover the network bridge can communicate using both a local area network LAN and a point to point PPP link in order to support both mobile tactical and fixed installations.

In an embodiment of the present invention the network bridge device is implemented using a laptop computer running on a conventional operating system. The network bridge supports various formats such as extensible Markup Language XML messages over an Ethernet interface Joint Variable Format Message JVMF over a point to point protocol PPP interface etc. When a command and control system is connected to a tactical network e.g. SINCGARS the CCS connects over its serial port to the Inter Network Controller INC which is a tactical router mounted on the radio s vehicular adapter. The serial connection is established using PPP. Then the CCS queries the INC to determine its configuration and if necessary reconfigures it using the simple network management protocol SNMP . Thereafter the CCS exchanges regular IP traffic e.g. event warning messages across the serial port. When the CCS is running on a LAN multicast groups are utilized to transmit packets. By contrast other sensor and warning systems use other languages such as extensible markup language XML for the messages.

The present invention is applicable to numerous CCS s such as space airborne terrestrial and marine based system. For instance multiple terrestrial based systems can be utilized. For example some CCS s utilize non persistent transmission control protocol TCP connections to send messages. Thus such CCS s create a client socket that connects to a server socket on the receiving system i.e. the present system s network bridge sends the XML message and then disconnects. On the other hand other CCS s create a client socket that connects to the server socket on the receiving system i.e. the network bridge of the present invention and then maintains that connection indefinitely. When a message needs to be transmitted there is no delay in setting up a connection and if the connection is lost the CCS will immediately detect the lost connection and try to re establish it.

The present invention permits message and source authentication encryption secure reconfiguration of user warning and positioning devices and remote zero. Accordingly the system method and computer program product of the present invention utilize public key infrastructure PKI to mitigate security risks to the system itself. According to a preferred embodiment of the present invention when an individual user warning and positioning device is initially configured it is loaded with a plurality e.g. four separate encryption keys as follows 

Further keys are issued by the network bridges that are acting as the root certificate authority for all user warning and positioning devices in the network bridge area of operation. Certificates are signed by this root certificate authority CA to allow nodes such as user warning and positioning devices to authenticate one another. Moreover certificate revocation is provided. Thus the present invention permits both a user warning and positioning device and its associated network bridge to authenticate each other and is particularly important whenever the user warning and positioning device s configuration is remotely modified. As a practical field operation protocol the only key that should be changed over the air is the shared secret key but only after the identity of the network bridge has been verified.

Moreover transmission encryption is provided. Accordingly the encryption key cannot be read out of the radio transceiver module of the wireless communication means of the user warning and positioning device by any means. The entire payload of the data packet is encrypted using the key and the cyclic redundancy check CRC is computed across the ciphertext. A module with the wrong key or no key will still receive encrypted data but this data will be unreadable and useless. Likewise a module with a key will still receive unencrypted data sent from a module without a key but the output will be similarly meaningless.

According to the present invention certain types of event warning messages are authenticated upon receipt. Specifically in these cases the user warning and positioning devices will verify the identity of a message sender when the received message instructs the user warning and positioning device to modify its configuration. Thus authentication is performed according to the following steps 

Step 1 A network bridge sends a configuration message to a specific user warning and positioning device. This message contains a plurality of values e.g. three separated or parsed values as follows 

Step 2 The recipient user warning and positioning device automatically looks in its cache for the sender s the network bridge mentioned in Step 1 public key. If it doesn t find one the user warning and positioning device automatically sends a request for this key to the sender. The sender subsequently sends a message with its public key which has been encrypted using the root certificate authority s private key. The recipient that has the root CA s public key decrypts the key it received and adds it to its cache.

Step 3 The recipient user warning and positioning device automatically computes the hash e.g. MD5 of the received string e.g. retransmit no. The user warning and positioning device then automatically decrypts the received hash using the sender s public key and compares the received and the computed hash values. If they match the recipient user warning and positioning device knows that the received configuration message is a legitimate authentic message.

According to the present invention the event warning message reaches as many user warning and positioning devices as possible as the event warning message is transmitted to all network bridges and all user warning and positioning devices even if these network bridges and user warning and positioning devices do not appear to be inside the affected area. In the event that a number of user warning and positioning devices are not in communication contact with a network bridge at a particular point in time the system of the present invention allows the user warning and positioning devices receiving event warning messages to selectively relay future event warning messages including multiple occurrences.

The present invention permits retransmission of event warning messages in appropriate instances depending on the specified configuration of the user warning and positioning devices e.g. when the event warning message contains an appropriate configuration file. Thus a specific event warning message can be transmitted once or multiple times. In the case that the event warning message is to be communicated only once e.g. to prevent redundancy of an event warning message that has already occurred the system will ensure that it is configured not to allow retransmissions. The system checks e.g. a local cache to ensure that the event warning message has not already been relayed. Conversely in the case of retransmission the system checks to ensure that the threatened event has not occurred in the past.

The present invention is also particularly robust through its integration of verbal as opposed to merely sound warnings. In particular specific event warning messages are transmitted to the user warning and positioning device decoded therein to determine the future event an appropriate spoken warning broadcast and a corresponding audible spoken warning made to the user via the sensory notification means of the device so that users may hear a human voice broadcast by the user warning and positioning device instructing the user as to what subsequent actions to take in response to the impending event.

The system method and computer program product of the present invention are also useful for training simulation and rehearsal along with real time use by organizations such as first responders public safety emergency management personnel with warning of harmful events such as emergency response homeland security natural disaster incidents etc. For example the present invention may be utilized to support first responders in disaster areas by tracking their location and allowing a command post to send a danger signal i.e. an event warning message to the first responders if an unsafe condition is detected in a particular sector. In such case as the network area is very limited the danger signal would only affect the personnel in the danger area such as perhaps a building about to collapse.

In another example the present invention may be utilized to support law enforcement officers by allowing a precinct to position the officers to best deter or respond to criminal activity. Further the present invention may be utilized to provide remotely located individuals such as skiers hikers etc. with warning of harmful events such as sudden violent weather changes avalanches natural disasters etc. Further the present invention may be utilized to provide remotely located vehicles such as watercraft with advanced warning of impending harmful events in their locale such as violent ocean conditions water spouts sea state changes tidal waves etc.

The present invention is applicable to commercial non military as well as military applications. Further the possible events addressed by the system method and computer program product of present invention range from day to day events such as a street side performance at a large amusement park road closing due to construction etc. to life threatening events such as the imminent collapse of a building within a disaster area the imminent detonation of a roadside bomb etc. The human computer interface implemented at the user warning and positioning device allows users to reconfigure the settings of the device to determine the content and amount of information that is relayed to user and can be flexibly configured to address a multitude of events and threats.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the system method and computer program product of the present invention has many applications and that the present invention is not limited to the representative examples disclosed herein. Although illustrative the embodiments disclosed herein have a wide range of modification change and substitution that is intended and in some instances some features of the present invention may be employed without a corresponding use of the other features.

Moreover the scope of the present invention covers conventionally known variations and modifications to the system components described herein as would be known by those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is appropriate that the appended claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the invention.

