---

title: Scalable and defect-tolerant color-center-based quantum computer architectures and methods for fabricating color-center-based quantum computer architectures
abstract: Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to color-center-based quantum computer architectures that are both scalable and defect tolerant and to methods for fabricating color-center-based quantum computer architectures. In one embodiment of the present invention, a node of a quantum computer architecture comprises a first photonic device configured to transmit electromagnetic waves, a color center embedded in diamond and coupled to the first photonic device, and a switch located between the first photonic device and a bus waveguide. The switch can be configured to selectively control transmission of electromagnetic waves between the bus waveguide and the color center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07546000&OS=07546000&RS=07546000
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07546000
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060907
---
This invention has been made with Government support under grant number EIT FA9550 05 C 0017 awarded by the DARPA. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to quantum computer architectures and in particular to color center based quantum computer architectures that are both scalable and defect tolerant and methods for fabricating quantum computer architectures that are color center based.

Advancements in disciplines ranging from atomic physics to various branches of condensed matter physics are being employed to fabricate a variety of different diamond based materials for use in many different technological applications. Diamond has a crystal lattice structure comprising two interpenetrating face centered cubic lattices of carbon atoms. shows a unit cell of a diamond crystal lattice. In each carbon atom represented by a sphere is covalently bonded to four adjacent carbon atoms each covalent bond is represented by a rod connecting two spheres. As shown in a carbon atom is covalently bonded to four carbon atoms . In general diamond has a number of potentially useful properties. For example diamond is transparent from the ultraviolet to the far infrared of the electromagnetic spectrum and has a relatively high refractive index of about 2.42. Diamond may also be a suitable replacement for silicon in silicon based semiconductor devices. For example silicon has an electronic bandgap of about 1.12 eV and starts to show signs of thermal stress at about 100 C. while diamond has a larger electronic bandgap ranging from about 5 eV to about 7 eV and a high Debye temperature ranging from about 1550 C. to about 1930 C.

Certain atomic vacancy systems called color centers embedded in diamond may have potential applications in quantum computing and quantum information processing. For example a nitrogen vacancy NV center embedded in diamond is a type of color center that may be used to store a quantum bit of information. shows an NV center embedded in a diamond crystal lattice . The NV center comprises a nitrogen atom next to a carbon vacancy . The nitrogen atom is covalently bonded to three carbon atoms . The nitrogen atom can also be located within the diamond crystal lattice at the positions occupied by carbons . NV centers can be created in a nitrogen rich diamond by irradiation and subsequent annealing at temperatures above 550 C. The radiation creates vacancies in the diamond and subsequent annealing causes the vacancies to migrate towards nitrogen atoms to produce an NV center. Alternatively NV centers can be created in diamond using N ion implantation.

When an electromagnetic field interacts with an NV center there is a periodic exchange or oscillation of energy between the electromagnetic field and the electronic energy levels of the NV center. Such oscillations which are called Rabi oscillations are associated with oscillations of the NV center electronic energy level populations and quantum mechanical probability amplitudes of the NV center electronic energy states. Rabi oscillations can be interpreted as an oscillation between absorption and stimulated emission of photons. The Rabi frequency denoted by represents the number of times these oscillations occur per unit time multiplied by the quantity 2 .

When spontaneous emission is taken into consideration the state of the NV center is in general represented by a linear superposition of states 1 2 3 where a a and aare probability amplitudes. In other words only linear superpositions of states with zero probability amplitude a 0 in the excited state 4 are stable. These stable linear superposition of states are also called dark states. When equals the state of the NV center is in a dark state represented by 

The NV centers are appealing for quantum information processing because the NV center has a relatively long lived spin coherence time and a possibility of large scale integration into semiconductor processing technology. For example an NV center electron spin coherence time of 58 s has been observed at room temperature. See Long coherence times at 300K for nitrogen vacancy center spins in diamond grown by chemical vapor deposition by A. Kennedy et al. 83 4190 4192 2003 . NV centers may have relatively long lived spin coherence because the lattice comprises primarily C which has zero nuclear spin. In addition a single photon can be generated from an NV center at room temperature which has established NV centers as potential photon sources in quantum computing and quantum communications. See Stable solid state source of single photons by C. Kurtsiefer et al. 85 290 293 2000 and Room temperature stable single photon source by A. Beveratos et al. 18 191 196 2002 . Physicists computer scientists and engineers have therefore recognized a need for color center based quantum computing systems that can be used in a variety of quantum based applications such as quantum computing quantum information processing and quantum communications.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to color center based quantum computer architectures that are both scalable and defect tolerant and to methods for fabricating color center based quantum computer architectures. In one embodiment of the present invention a node of a quantum computer architecture comprises a first photonic device configured to transmit electromagnetic waves a color center embedded in diamond and coupled to the first photonic device and a switch located between the first photonic device and a bus waveguide. The switch can be configured to selectively control transmission of electromagnetic waves between the bus waveguide and the color center.

Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to color center based quantum computer architectures that are both scalable and defect tolerant and to methods for fabricating color center based quantum computer architectures. Each of the quantum computer architectures of the present invention includes a network of photonic devices such as microdisks microrings ridge waveguides and or resonant cavities in photonic crystals. The quantum computer architectures also include atomic vacancy centers that can be used to store a quantum bit of information. The architectures can then be used as processors memory arrays and can be incorporated into devices that are used for quantum computing quantum information processing and storing quantum information. For readers that are unfamiliar with certain properties of photonic crystals an overview of photonic crystals waveguides and resonant cavities is provided in a first subsection. Various embodiments of the present invention are described in a second subsection.

Photonic crystals are optical devices composed of two or more different materials with dielectric properties that when combined together in a regular pattern can modify the propagation characteristics of electromagnetic radiation ER . illustrate two of many different possible patterns in which two different materials with different dielectric properties can be combined to form a photonic crystal. Photonic crystals are typically identified by the number of directions in which the dielectric pattern is periodic. For example illustrates an example of a one dimensional photonic crystal. In a photonic crystal is composed of seven layers of two different dielectrics that alternate periodically in the z direction. Unshaded layers are composed of a first dielectric having a dielectric constant and hash marked layers are composed of a second dielectric having a different dielectric constant . The layers are regularly spaced with a repeat distance called a lattice constant in the case of the lattice constant shown in lattice constant a. illustrates an example of a two dimensional photonic crystal. The two dimensional photonic crystal comprises alternating layers of two different dielectrics and is periodic in both the x direction and the y direction with two lattice constants a and b. Unshaded regions such as region are composed of a first dielectric having dielectric constant and hash marked regions such as region are composed of a second dielectric having a different dielectric constant . Photonic crystals can also be fabricated with repeating patterns in three dimensions. Three dimensional photonic crystals can be fabricated using spheres tubes or other solid shapes comprising a first dielectric embedded in a slab comprising a second dielectric.

ER propagating in a dielectric can be characterized by electromagnetic waves comprising oscillating orthogonal electric fields right arrow over E and magnetic fields right arrow over H and a direction of propagation right arrow over k . The electric and magnetic fields are related by Maxwell s equations 

Because dielectrics do not generally support free charges or free currents Equations 1 4 do not include a charge density term or a volume current density term. Equations 3 and 4 the curl equations are linear differential equations. In both equations the left sides express the dependence of a field on the independent spatial displacement right arrow over r and the right sides express the dependence of a field on t. The only way for a differential quantity that varies with respect to right arrow over r to remain equal to a quantity that varies with respect to t is for the differential quantities to equal the same constant value. Both sides of Equations 3 and 4 are equal to a constant and the method of separation of variables can be applied to obtain exp exp where is the angular frequency of an electromagnetic wave propagating in a dielectric.

Maxwell s curl Equations 3 and 4 can be decoupled by dividing Equation 4 by the dielectric constant right arrow over r applying the curl operator and substituting Equation 3 for the curl of the electric field to give 

For finite dimensional photonic crystals such as the photonic crystals shown in the eigenvalues and eigenfunctions of Equations 5 are quantized to give where j is a non negative integer value called the band index that labels the harmonic modes of the magnetic field right arrow over H right arrow over r in order of increasing angular frequency.

The translational symmetry of the photonic crystal can be used to determine the functional form of the magnetic fields right arrow over H right arrow over r . For example the functional form of the magnetic fields right arrow over H right arrow over r propagating in the photonic crystal are given by the following exp right arrow over exp Equation 6 where right arrow over is an xy plane vector right arrow over k is an xy plane wave vector kis a z direction wave vector component and right arrow over u z is a periodic function in the z direction. The exponential term exp iright arrow over k right arrow over in Equation 6 arises from the continuous translational symmetry of ER propagating through the dielectric layers in the xy plane. However the term exp ikz right arrow over u z in Equation 6 arises from Bloch s theorem and the discrete translational symmetry imposed in the z direction by the periodicity of the dielectric constant of the photonic crystal given by where right arrow over R alcircumflex over z a is a lattice constant determined by the regular pattern of the dielectric layers and l is an integer.

The magnetic fields right arrow over H right arrow over r are periodic for integral multiples of 2 a. As a result the associated angular frequencies are also periodic 

Differences in the dielectric pattern of a photonic crystal creates one or more range of frequencies referred to as photonic bandgaps for which ER is prevented from propagating in the photonic crystal. The photonic bandgap also corresponds to an electromagnetic energy range and a range of wavelengths denoted by for which the differences between the dielectrics prevents ER absorption and ER propagation. The wavelength of ER transmitted through a photonic crystal is related to the angular frequency 

where right arrow over H right arrow over H dright arrow over r right arrow over H right arrow over r right arrow over H right arrow over r and represents the complex conjugate. The electromagnetic energy is lower for harmonic modes propagating in regions with a high dielectric constant than for modes propagating in regions of a photonic crystal with a low dielectric constant.

The size of and range of frequencies within a photonic bandgap of a one dimensional photonic crystal depends on the relative difference between the dielectric constants of the dielectrics comprising a photonic crystal. One dimensional photonic crystals with large relative differences between the dielectric constants of the materials comprising the photonic crystal have larger photonic bandgaps at higher frequency ranges than photonic crystals with smaller relative differences between the dielectric constants.

Two dimensional photonic crystals can be composed of a regular lattice of cylindrical columns fabricated in a dielectric slab. The cylindrical columns can be air holes or holes filled with a dielectric material different from the dielectric material of the photonic slab. illustrates a perspective view of a two dimensional photonic crystal. In a photonic crystal is composed of a dielectric slab with a regular lattice of embedded cylindrical columns such as column . The cylindrical columns extend from the top surface to the bottom surface of the slab as indicated by a cylindrical column and can be holes filled with air or any other material having a dielectric constant different from the dielectric constant of the slab . Two dimensional photonic crystals can also be composed of a regular lattice arrangement of cylindrical columns surrounded by a gas or a liquid. illustrates a two dimensional photonic crystal having a regular square lattice of solid cylindrical columns such as a cylindrical column surrounded by fluid such as gas or liquid with a dielectric constant different from the cylindrical columns.

Two dimensional photonic crystals polarize ER propagating in the periodic plane of the photonic crystal and the electric and magnetic fields can be classified into two distinct polarizations 1 the transverse electric field TE modes and 2 the transverse magnetic field TM modes. The TE have right arrow over H right arrow over directed normal to the periodic plane of the photonic crystal and right arrow over E right arrow over directed in the periodic plane of the photonic crystal while the TM have right arrow over E right arrow over directed normal to the periodic plane of the photonic crystal and right arrow over H right arrow over directed in the periodic plane of the photonic crystal. illustrate propagation of TE and TM modes in the two dimensional photonic crystal shown in . The periodic plane of the photonic crystal lies in the xy plane the cylindrical columns are parallel to the z direction and ER propagates through the photonic crystal in the y direction. In an oscillating curve represents the right arrow over H right arrow over mode directed normal to the xy plane and an oscillating curve represents the orthogonal right arrow over E right arrow over mode directed in the xy plane. In an oscillating curve represents the right arrow over E right arrow over mode directed normal to the xy plane and an oscillating curve represents the orthogonal right arrow over H right arrow over mode directed in the xy plane.

The width and the frequency range covered by photonic bandgaps in two dimensional photonic crystal slabs such as the photonic bandgap depends on the periodic spacing of the cylindrical columns represented by lattice constant a and the relative difference between the dielectric constant of the slab and the dielectric constant of the cylindrical columns. Also the frequency range covered by photonic bandgap can be shifted to a higher frequency range for larger relative differences between the dielectric constant of the slab and the dielectric constant of the cylindrical columns while the photonic bandgap can be shifted to a lower frequency range for smaller relative differences between the dielectric constant of the slab and the dielectric constant of the cylindrical columns.

Two dimensional photonic crystals can be designed to reflect ER within a specified frequency band. As a result a two dimensional photonic crystal can be designed and fabricated as a frequency band stop filter to prevent the propagation of ER having frequencies within the photonic bandgap of the photonic crystal. Generally the size and relative spacing of cylindrical columns control which wavelengths of ER are prohibited from propagating in the two dimensional photonic crystal. However defects can be introduced into the lattice of cylindrical columns to produce particular localized optical components. In particular a point defect also referred to as a resonant cavity can be fabricated to provide a resonator that temporarily traps a narrow range of frequencies or wavelengths of ER. A line defect also referred to as a waveguide can be fabricated to transmit ER with frequency ranges or wavelengths that lie within a frequency range of a photonic bandgap. As a result a three dimensional photonic crystal slab can be thought of as two dimensional crystal having a refractive index n that depends on the thickness of the slab.

Waveguides are optical transmission paths that can be used to direct ER within a particular frequency range of the photonic bandgap from a first location in a photonic crystal to a second location in the photonic crystal. Waveguides can be fabricated by changing the diameter of certain cylindrical columns within a column or row of cylindrical columns or by omitting rows of cylindrical columns. For example in the photonic crystal a dielectric waveguide is created by omitting an entire row of cylindrical columns during fabrication of the photonic crystal as indicated by the empty region between dashed lines and . The dielectric waveguide transmits ER with wavelengths and along a single path. Networks of branching waveguides can be used to direct ER in numerous different pathways through the photonic crystal. The diameter of an optical signal propagating along a waveguide can be as small as 3n where n is the refractive index of the waveguide while a harmonic mode volume of a resonant cavity can be as small as 2 3n .

Waveguides and resonant cavities may be less than 100 effective in preventing ER from escaping into the area immediately surrounding the waveguides and resonant cavities. For example ER within a frequency range in the photonic bandgap propagating along a waveguide also tends to diffuse into the region surrounding the waveguide. ER entering the area surrounding a waveguide or a resonant cavity experiences an exponential decay in amplitude a process referred to as evanescence. As a result a resonant cavity can be located within a short distance of a waveguide to allow certain wavelengths of ER carried by the waveguide to be extracted by the resonant cavity. In effect resonant cavities are filters that can be used to extract a fraction of a certain wavelength of ER propagating in the waveguide. Depending on a resonant cavity Q factor an extracted ER can remain trapped in a resonant cavity and resonate for a time before evanescing into the surroundings or backscattering into the waveguide. For example in the resonant cavity is located too far from the waveguide to extract a mode with particular wavelength of ER. However the resonant cavity is able to extract a fraction of ER with wavelength propagating along the waveguide . Thus a smaller fraction of ER with wavelength may be left to propagate in the waveguide along with ER of wavelengths and .

For three dimensional photonic crystals the three dimensional lattice parameters the difference between dielectric constants and the dimensions of the inclusions determine the frequency range of photonic bandgaps. Waveguides and resonant cavities can also be fabricated in three dimensional photonic crystals by selectively removing or changing the dimensions of certain inclusions.

The photonic chip is an example of a quantum computing architecture that can be operated as a processor memory array or any other device for quantum computing quantum information processing and storing quantum information. Each color center can be used to store a quantum bit of information. The waveguides transmit information encoded in electromagnetic waves to and from the nodes and can be separately coupled to optical fiber input output couplers not shown . Electrical signal lines not shown that extend perpendicular to the substrate surface can transmit current to operate each electrode.

At each node an electromagnetic wave is transmitted between a bus waveguide and a node color center via evanescent coupling. For example an electromagnetic wave transmitted along the bus waveguide can be transmitted by evanescent coupling to the microring . The electromagnetic wave resonates in the microring and can again be transmitted by evanescent coupling to the waveguide of the photonic crystal and or to the waveguide by evanescent coupling with the ridge waveguide . When the energy of the electromagnetic wave is large enough the color center may absorb the energy by undergoing an electronic state change as described above with reference to . Also when the color center undergoes electronic state transition an electromagnetic wave emitted from the color center can be transmitted from the first waveguide to the microring and from the microring to the bus waveguide via evanescent coupling.

The dimensions of each microring can be different and or each microring can be patterned with holes of different arrangements and sizes so that each microring can maintain resonance of an electromagnetic wave of a particular wavelength. As a result the microring of each node can serve as drop add filter by extracting an electromagnetic wave of a particular wavelength out of numerous electromagnetic waves transmitted in an adjacent bus waveguide and by placing an electromagnetic wave of a particular wavelength into the adjacent bus waveguide. Tuning of microring drop add structure is well known in the art. See e.g. Y. Kokubun . E88 C 349 2005 .

The microring and the first and second electrodes of each node comprise a switch that can be used to selectively turn each node on or off. For example each switch can be used to turn off a node by changing the microring resonance frequency. Consider in a switch comprising the microring the first electrode and the second electrode . An appropriate positive or negative voltage applied between the first electrode and the second electrode changes the refractive index of the microring . By changing the refractive index of the microring the resonance frequency of the microring is shifted away from the absorption and or emission frequency of the color center . As a result the color center and the bus waveguide are no longer coupled. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention thermal refractive index tuning can be used to supply heat via the electrodes that changes the refractive index of the coupled microring. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention electrooptic modulation of the switch microrings can also be used. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention the photonic chip may exclude the electrodes coupled to the microrings. Individual nodes can be turned on or off by changing the refractive index of a switch microring using an incident electromagnetic wave of a particular wavelength.

In a first materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention the photonic devices of the photonic chip are patterned into a transmission layer comprising a III V a II VI a Group IV semiconductor or a high refractive index dielectric. The transmission layer is embedded between top and bottom cladding layers comprising a relatively lower refractive index material such as silica SiO . The Roman numerals II III IV V and VI refer to the Group Two Group Three Group Four Group Five and Group Six elements in the Periodic Table of Elements respectively. For example the microrings and the bus waveguides of the photonic chip can be a III V semiconductor such as GaP which comprises equal quantities of Ga a Group Three element and P a Group Five element. The II VI and the III V semiconductors are not limited to equal quantities of just one Group Two element and one Group Six element or one Group Three element and one Group Five element. The semiconductors can have a quantity of two or more different Group Two elements and an equal quantity of two or more different Group Six elements or a quantity of two or more different Group Three elements and an equal quantity of two or more different Group Five elements. For example the transmission layer can be comprised of a III V semiconductor comprising a quantity of Al and Ga both Group Three elements and an equal quantity of P a Group Five element.

In a second materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention a photonic chip comprises a bottom diamond layer an intermediate transmission layer comprising a II VI a III V a Group IV semiconductor or a high refractive index dielectric and a top TiO SiN layer. The top TiO SiN layer has about the same index of refraction as the bottom diamond layer. illustrates a perspective view of a photonic chip node that represents the second materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention. The node comprises a bottom diamond layer a transmission layer and a top TiO SiN layer . The node photonic devices are patterned into both the transmission layer and the top TiO SiN layer and the cylindrical holes comprising a photonic crystal are patterned in all three layers as indicated by a hole . The photonic devices patterned in the transmission layer transmit electromagnetic waves as described above with reference to and the bottom diamond layer and the top TiO SiN layer layers serve as bottom and top cladding layers. The photonic devices patterned in the transmission layer include the photonic crystal a microring and a ridge waveguide . The transmission layer also includes an n region and a p region that form a p i n junction as described above with reference to . A first electrode is located on the top surface of the n region and a second electrode is located on the top surface of the p region . A color center is embedded in the bottom diamond layer near the bottom surface of a resonant cavity not shown in the photonic crystal as indicated by directional arrows .

In a third materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention a photonic chip comprises photonic devices fabricated in a high quality single bulk diamond layer. illustrates a perspective view of a photonic chip node that represents the third materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention. The node comprises a photonic crystal a microring and a ridge waveguide . The photonic crystal the microring the ridge waveguide and an adjacent bus waveguide are created in a single diamond layer. The node switch comprises a first electrode located on the top surface of negatively doped electro optic material and a second electrode located on the top surface of positively doped electro optic material . A color center is embedded in a resonant cavity near the top surface of the photonic crystal .

The photonic chip is an example of a quantum computing architecture that can be operated as a processor memory array or any other device for quantum computing quantum information processing and storing quantum information. In particular each color center can be used to store a quantum bit of information. The waveguides transmit information encoded in electromagnetic waves to and from the nodes and can be separately coupled to optical fiber input output couplers not shown . Electrical signal lines not shown are in electrical contact with the electrodes and can extend perpendicular to the substrate surface.

At each node an electromagnetic wave is transmitted between a bus waveguide and the second microring via evanescent coupling. For example an electromagnetic wave transmitted along the bus waveguide can be transmitted by evanescent coupling to the second microring . The electromagnetic wave resonates in the second microring and can again be transmitted by evanescent coupling to the first microring . When the energy of the electromagnetic wave is large enough the color center may absorb the energy by undergoing an electronic state change as described above with reference to . Also when the color center undergoes an electronic state transition emitted electromagnetic radiation can be transmitted via evanescent coupling from the first microring to the second microring and from the second microring to the bus waveguide .

The dimensions of the microrings of each node can be varied and or be patterned with holes of different arrangements and sizes so that the microrings can maintain resonance of an electromagnetic wave with a particular wavelength. The second microring of each node can serve as a drop add filter as described above with reference to . The second microring and the first and second electrodes of each node comprise a switch that can be used to turn a node on or off as described above with reference to .

In a fourth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention the photonic devices of the photonic chip are patterned into a transmission layer comprising a III V a II VI a Group IV semiconductor or a high refractive index dielectric. The transmission layer is embedded between top and bottom cladding layers comprising a relatively lower refractive index material such as silica. illustrates a perspective view of a photonic chip node that represents the fourth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention. The node comprises a first microring and a second microring patterned into a transmission layer . The transmission layer also includes a bus waveguide that is adjacent to the second microring . A color center is located on the top surface of the first microring . The diamond layer and the transmission layer are embedded between a top cladding layer and a bottom cladding layer . The node also includes a first electrode located on the top surface of an n region and a second electrode located on the top surface of a p region . The n region and the p region are separated by a portion of intrinsic transmission layer material to form a p i n junction as described above with reference to .

In a fifth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention a photonic chip comprises a bottom diamond layer an intermediate transmission layer comprising a II VI a III V a Group IV semiconductor or a high refractive index dielectric and a top TiO SiN layer. The top TiO SiN layer has about the same index of refraction as the bottom diamond layer. illustrates a perspective view of a photonic chip node that represents the fifth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention. The node comprises a bottom diamond layer a transmission layer and a top TiO SiN layer . The node photonic devices are patterned into both the transmission layer and the top TiO SiN layer . A first microring and a second microring are node photonic devices patterned in the transmission layer and transmit electromagnetic waves as described above with reference to . The transmission layer also includes an adjacent bus waveguide . The diamond layer and the top TiO SiN layer serve as cladding layers for the photonic devices. Note that the top TiO SiN layer is patterned in the shape of the photonic devices. The node includes a first electrode located on the top surface of an n region and a second electrode located on the top surface of a p region . A color center is embedded near the top surface of the diamond layer and just below the first microring as indicated by directional arrows .

In a sixth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention a photonic chip comprises photonic devices created in a high quality single bulk diamond layer. illustrates a perspective view of a photonic chip node that represents the sixth materials and node configuration embodiment of the present invention. The node comprises a first microring and a second microring . The first microring the second microring and an adjacent bus waveguide are created in a single diamond layer and service as photonic devices for transmitting electromagnetic waves. The node includes a switch comprising a first electrode located the top surface of a negatively doped electro optic material and a second electrode located on the top surface of positively doped electro optic material . A color center is embedded near the top surface of the first microring as indicated by directional arrows .

Note that the node configuration embodiments of the present invention described above with reference to are not limited to locating the p regions within the microrings and locating the n regions outside the microrings. In alternate embodiments of the present invention the location of the n and p regions can be switched. In other words the n regions can be located within the openings of the microrings and the p regions can be located outside the microrings.

A first method embodiment for fabricating color center based quantum computer architectures is described below with reference to and can be used to fabricate color centers based quantum computer architectures as described above with reference to . The first fabrication method embodiment is described below with reference to fabricating the photonic chip node described above with reference to .

First a transmission layer comprising a II VI a III V a Group IV semiconductor or high refractive index dielectric material is deposited on the top surface of a substrate using either chemical vapor deposition CVD or molecular beam epitaxy MBE . CVD and MBE are well known methods for depositing layers of materials in the art of fabricating microscale and nanoscale devices. illustrates a perspective view of a transmission layer deposited on the top of a substrate that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a cross sectional view of the transmission layer deposited on the top surface of the substrate that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next nucleation centers are deposited at specific locations on the transmission layer using semiconductor fabrication methods such as lithography evaporation deposition and liftoff. A nucleation center can be Ni Pt or a diamond seed crystal with or without color centers or another seed material. Lithography evaporation deposition and liftoff are well known methods for depositing atoms at specific locations on a surface of a substrate. illustrates a perspective view of a nucleation center deposited at a specific location on the top surface of the transmission layer in that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a cross sectional view of the nucleation center deposited on the top surface the transmission layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next a network of high resolution nm scale feature size photonic devices such as photonic crystals microrings and ridge waveguides can be patterned into the transmission layer using various well know ion etching processes lithographic etching and or nanoimprint lithography. For example method embodiments of the present invention may employ one or more well known ion etching processes such as reactive ion etching focused ion beam etching and chemically assisted ion beam etching in order to pattern the photonic devices into the transmission layer. Methods of the present invention may also employ well known photolithographic and or electron beam e beam lithographic processes in order to pattern the photonic devices in the transmission layer. The photonic devices can also be fabricated on the nanoscale using nanoimprint lithography. Nanoimprint lithography is a high resolution lithography methods that involves first defining a master template of a pattern of microrings and waveguides that is transferred to transmission layer. Nanoimprint lithography can be used to achieve feature sizes as small as approximately 10 nm or less. See S. Y. Chou et al. 15 2897 1997 .

Next CVD is used to grow color centers with a diamond layer on each nucleation center. illustrates a perspective view of a color center and a diamond layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a cross sectional view of the color center and the diamond layer shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next using lithographic methods a switch can be created at each photonic chip node by implanting in the transmission layer electron donating atoms such as P to create an n region and electron hole donating atoms such as B to create a p region. Again using lithography the electrodes can be deposited on the top surfaces of the n and p regions. illustrates a perspective view of a switch created in the patterned transmission layer shown in that presents an embodiment of the present invention. The switch comprises a first electrode located the top surface of an n region and a second electrode located on the top surface of an n region . illustrates a cross sectional view of the switch shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the n region the p region and intrinsic transmission layer material form a p i n junction.

Next the patterned transmission layer with color centers are removed from the substrate in a well known process called lift off and the transmission layer and color center are embedded between a bottom cladding layer and a top cladding layer using CVD. In alternate embodiments of the present invention after the photonic network and color center have been fabricated the top cladding layer can be deposited using CVD followed by lift off and then the bottom cladding layer can be deposited using CVD. In alternate embodiments of the present invention before the transmission layer is patterned the transmission layer and nucleation center can be transferred to the bottom cladding layer and after the photonic network is patterned in the transmission layer the top cladding layer is deposited. Methods for depositing the top and bottom cladding layers are well known in the art.

A second method embodiment for fabricating color center based quantum computer architectures is described below with reference to FIGS. and and can also be used to fabricate color centers based quantum computer architectures described above with reference to . The second fabrication method embodiment is described below with reference to fabricating the photonic chip node described above with reference to .

First a transmission layer is deposited on the top surface of a substrate as described above with reference to . Next a network of photonic devices is patterned into the transmission layer using the various well known ion etching lithographic and or nanoimprint lithographic methods described above with reference to . illustrates a perspective view of a network of photonic devices patterned into the transmission layer in that represents an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the network of photonic devices comprises the photonic crystal the microring the ridge waveguide and the portion of bus waveguide as described above with reference to where the photonic crystal the microring and the ridge waveguide comprise the photonic devices of a node such as the node shown in . The photonic crystal also includes a resonant cavity that can be created by fabricating cylindrical holes that are smaller or larger than the rest of the cylindrical holes created in the photonic crystal . illustrate first and second cross sectional views of the photonic network shown in respectively that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next a switch can be fabricated at each photonic chip node by implanting in the transmission layer with electron donating atoms to create an n region and implanting electron hole donating atoms to create a p region and the electrodes can be deposited on the top surfaces of the n and p regions lithography as described above with reference to . illustrates a perspective view of a switch fabricated in the patterned transmission layer shown in that presents an embodiment of the present invention. The switch comprises a first electrode located the top surface of an n region and a second electrode located on the top surface of an n region . illustrates a cross sectional view of the switch shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next the patterned transmission layer shown in is embedded between top and bottom cladding layers as described above with reference to . illustrates a perspective view of the patterned transmission layer shown in embedded between a top cladding layer and a bottom cladding layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrate first and second cross sectional views of the network shown in respectively that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next holes are etched in the top cladding layer using various ion etching and or lithographic methods. The holes expose a portion of a photonic device below. illustrates a perspective view of a hole etched in the top cladding layer shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the hole exposes a portion of the top surface of the resonant cavity . illustrates a cross sectional view of the hole in the top cladding layer shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next prefabricated color centers are placed in the holes. The color center can prefabricated by depositing the nucleation centers on a suitable substrate and depositing diamond layer using CVD. illustrates a perspective view of a color center placed in the hole that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a cross sectional view of the color center placed in the hole that represents an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in the color center with a surrounding diamond layer is located on the top surface of the resonant cavity . Next the hole is filled with silica in order to obtain the photonic chip node described above with reference to . In alternate embodiments of the present invention a color center can be grown in each hole by first depositing a seed material such as Ni Pt or diamond seed crystal with or without color centers using lithography followed by CVD to deposit diamond layer around the nucleation center.

A third method embodiment for fabricating color center based quantum computer architectures is described below with reference to . The method can be used to fabricate color centers based quantum computer architectures described above with reference to . The third fabrication method embodiment is described below with reference to fabricating the photonic chip node .

First a diamond layer containing an arrangement of color centers is fabricated using lithography and implantation. Color centers can be embedded in the diamond layer at predefined locations using a lithographically defined mask and ion implantation. Fabricating the lithographically defined mask and use of ion implantation to place the color centers at the predefined locations of the diamond layer are well known methods in the art. See A. Greentree et al. 18 S825 2006 . illustrates a perspective view of a color center placed at a predefined location in a diamond layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention. Directional arrows indicate that the color center is located just below the top surface of the diamond layer . illustrates a cross sectional view of the color center embedded in the diamond layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next a transmission layer comprising a II VI a III V a Group IV semiconductor or high refractive index dielectric is deposited on the top surface of the diamond layer and a TiO SiN layer is deposited on the top surface of the transmission layer. Note that transmission layer can be accomplished using wafer bonding. Both of the transmission and TiO SiN layers can be deposited using CVD and or MBE methods. illustrates a perspective view of a transmission layer deposited on the top surface of the diamond layer and a TiO SiN layer deposited on the surface of the transmission layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention. illustrates a cross sectional view of the diamond layer the transmission layer and the TiO SiN layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next RIE lithography and or nanoimprint lithography can be used to pattern photonic devices in the transmission layer. illustrates a perspective view of photonic devices patterned in the transmission layer that represents an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in a photonic crystal a microring a ridge waveguide and a portion of a bus waveguide are fabricated in the transmission layer . The photonic crystal includes a resonant cavity that can be created by etching cylindrical holes that are smaller or larger than the rest of the holes used to define the photonic crystal . The resonant cavity can also be fabricated with cylindrical holes that are the same shape and size as the cylindrical holes comprising the rest of the photonic crystal but the locations of the holes defining the resonant cavity are shifted as described above with reference to . The resonant cavity is located directly above the color center . The etching and lithographic methods leave a similarly configured layer of TiO SiNi on top of each photonic device. Note that the cylindrical holes used to define the photonic crystal extend into the diamond layer . illustrates a cross sectional view of the color center located directly beneath the resonant cavity that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

Next using lithographic methods a switch can be created at each photonic chip node by implanting in the transmission layer electron donating atoms to create an n region and electron hole donating atoms to create a p region and by fabricating the electrodes on the top surfaces of the n and p regions as described above with reference to . illustrates a perspective view of a switch created in the patterned transmission layer shown in that presents an embodiment of the present invention. The switch comprises a first electrode located the top surface of an n region and a second electrode located on the top surface of an n region . illustrates a second cross sectional view of the switch shown in that represents an embodiment of the present invention.

The quantum computer architectures such as the photonic chips and described above with reference to are scalable. In other words the photonic chips and can be made to provided more or less computational power memory or amount of mass storage by configuring each chip with a larger or smaller number of nodes. For example methods of the present invention can be used to configure quantum computer architectures with an unlimited number of nodes. illustrates a hypothetical photonic chip with an array of 400 nodes that represents an embodiment of the present invention. In boxes such as box represent nodes such as node in or node in . Horizontal lines such as horizontal line represent bus waveguides that can be coupled to optical fiber input output couplers.

The photonic chips and described above are also defect tolerant. In other words the photonic chips and can be operated effectively even though a number of the nodes are not operational. Certain nodes may have defects such as not having a color center the cavity coupling is too weak or their characteristics differ from that of the other nodes. The defective nodes can be turned off by changing the refractive index of each switch microring as described above with reference to . illustrates the photonic chip with 5 defective nodes that represents an embodiment of the present invention. In defective nodes are identified by Xs. For example X identifies a defective node . Applying an appropriate voltage bias between a first electrode and a second electrode changes the resonance frequency of a microring so that an electromagnetic wave cannot be transmitted by evanescent coupling between the bus waveguide and the color center .

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example in an alternate embodiment of the present invention rather than coupling a single bus waveguide to a single row of nodes as shown in the photonic device of a row of nodes can be rearranged so that a single bus waveguide can be couple to two rows of nodes. For example illustrates a photonic chip with a single bus waveguide that is coupled to two rows of nodes that represents an embodiment of the present invention. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention the photonic crystal in the photonic chip can be replaced with a one dimensional photonic crystal that includes Fabry Perot cavities. In alternate embodiments of the present invention the photonic network associated with the node configurations described above with reference to and can also be created by patterning through the entire structure such as patterning through the top TiO semiconductor and diamond layers. In alternate embodiments of the present invention the semiconductor material comprising the photonic devices may include high index dielectrics such as SiN. In an alternate embodiment of the present invention an optical multiplexer demultiplexer can be used to connect a single optical fiber input output connection to numerous bus waveguides in a photonic chip. illustrates a photonic chip comprising 28 nodes such as node and 4 bus waveguides connected to a single optical fiber via a photonic mutliplexer demultiplexer MUX DEMUX that represents an embodiment of the present invention. The MUX DEMUX can be comprised of waveguides or resonators in a photonic crystal or optical fibers that are controlled by electronic optical switches such as a series of directional couplers or add drop resonators as represented in circle and each bus waveguide is connected to a waveguide of the MUX DEMUX . The switches can be individually controlled so that particular electromagnetic waves can be selectively directed into the bus waveguide . For example switch can be used to direct an electromagnetic wave to the bus waveguide and not to the bus waveguide . In alternate embodiments of the present invention an electrooptic material can be deposited directly on the surface of the switch microrings In each node a voltage applied by the electrodes causes a change in the refractive index of the microring.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive of or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

