---

title: Nanoscale electronic latch
abstract: In one embodiment of the present invention, a nanoscale latch is implemented by interconnecting an enable line, two control lines, and a pull-down line, when needed, to a signal line carrying encoded binary values to be latched and subsequently output. The enable line is interconnected with the signal line through a field-effect-transistor-like nanoscale junction. Both control lines are interconnected with the signal line through asymmetric-switch nanoscale junctions of like polarities. The pull-down line, when needed, is interconnected with the signal line through a resistive nanoscale junction. Inputting a sequence of signals to the enable and control lines allows a value input from the signal line to be stored and subsequently output to the signal line. In various additional embodiments, an array of nanoscale latches can be implemented by overlaying enable and control lines, and a pull-down line when needed, over a set of parallel nanowires.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07436209&OS=07436209&RS=07436209
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07436209
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061030
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. Nos. 11 136 935 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 307 448 and 11 136 950 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 257 016 both filed May 24 2005.

This invention has been made with Government support under Contract No. HR 0011 05 03 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is related to both electronics and nanotechnology and in particular to a nanoscale electronic latch that can be implemented using nanowire crossbar technologies.

Electronic latches are used in many types of electronic devices from macroscale electronics to integrated circuits. Because electronic latches are fundamental components of electronic circuits and devices nanoscale electronic latches are needed for nanoelectronic circuits and devices created by emerging molecular electronics fabrication techniques. A number of different types of nanoscale latches have been proposed. However the previously proposed nanoscale latches employed asymmetric switches of opposing polarities. Fabricating a single nanoscale device with asymmetric switches of opposing polarities may difficult and expensive. Researchers developers and manufacturers of nanoscale electronic devices have all recognized the need for devising new types of nanoscale latches with properties and characteristics conducive to high volume manufacture for commercial applications.

In one embodiment of the present invention a nanoscale latch is implemented by interconnecting an enable line two control lines and a pull down line when needed to a signal line carrying encoded binary values to be latched and subsequently output. The enable line is interconnected with the signal line through a field effect transistor like nanoscale junction. Both control lines are interconnected with the signal line through asymmetric switch nanoscale junctions of like polarities. The pull down line when needed is interconnected with the signal line through a resistive nanoscale junction. Inputting a sequence of signals to the enable and control lines allows a value input from the signal line to be stored and subsequently output to the signal line. In various additional embodiments an array of nanoscale latches can be implemented by overlaying enable and control lines and a pull down line when needed over a set of parallel nanowires.

The present invention is related to the emerging fields of molecular electronics and nanotechnology. The present invention provides for a relatively easily and economically fabricated nanoscale electronic latch NEL . Arrays of NELs are readily implemented from sets of parallel nanowires. The term nanoscale is used to characterize components or objects having at least one dimension of between 0.5 nanometers and 5 nanometers or more generally having at least one dimension of between 0.5 nanometers and 50 nanometers.

By choosing the types of molecules used in the nanoscale junctions and by in certain embodiments configuring the nanoscale junctions chemically or electronically a number of different types of nanoscale junctions can be formed each type having a characteristic set of electronic properties often analogous to the electronic properties of familiar microscale and macroscale electronic components. shows a variety of types of passive nanoscale junctions that can be fabricated. As shown in passive nanoscale junctions include nanoscale junctions that behave electronically as resistors conductive connections and diodes . As shown in active nanoscale junctions can be fabricated with properties analogous to a field effect transistor or with the properties of an asymmetric switch both active nanoscale junctions described in greater detail below.

Asymmetric switch nanoscale junctions are described above as having a fixed polarity with Va relatively negative voltage and Va relatively positive voltage. Asymmetric switch nanoscale junctions can also be fabricated to have an opposite polarity with Va relatively positive voltage and Va relatively negative voltage. An opposite polarity asymmetric switch nanoscale junction would be described by a modified voltage current plot similar to the voltage current plot of but with the directions of the dashed line arrows and reversed.

In a next sequence of operations the NEL is prepared to receive and latch a binary value from the signal line. First as shown in the NEL representation the voltage applied to the enable line is decreased below Vto open the FET like nanoscale junction . Then a large positive voltage Vis applied to control line B to open the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction . Next as shown in NEL representation a large negative voltage greater or equal in magnitude than Vis applied to control line A in order to close asymmetric switch nanoscale junction . Next as shown in NEL representation in the FET like nanoscale junction is closed by application of a voltage greater than Vto the enable line . Thus the current signal input via the signal line is passed through the NEL. Then in the NEL representation in a voltage V less than Vbut greater than Vis applied to control A . If the signal line is high then the voltage applied across the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is below V and the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction remains closed. However if the signal line is low then the voltage applied across the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is greater than V and the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is opened by the applied voltage. As discussed above with reference to the symbol filled disk represents the fact that the state of the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction depends on the signal latched by application of the voltage V to control A . Next as shown in NEL representation in the FET like nanoscale junction is disabled by application of a voltage less than Vto the enable line . Next as shown in NEL representation in a relatively large negative voltage V is applied to control A . If asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is closed then the output signal line has a low voltage. If on the other hand the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is open then the output signal line is at ground. Thus application of the negative voltage V to the control A signal line inverts the latched input signal. Next as shown in NEL representation in the negative voltage Vis applied to control D placing the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction in an open state when the latched signal S is high and placing the asymmetric switch nanoscale junction in a closed state when the latched signal S is low. Thus the state of the second asymmetric switch nanoscale junction is opposite from the state of the first asymmetric switch nanoscale junction . This completes latching of the signal S input into the NEL in the step discussed with reference to NEL representation in .

In order to output the latched binary value as shown in NEL representation in the positive voltage Vis applied to the control A signal line and the negative voltage Vis applied to the control B signal line . When the latched signal value S is high a large positive voltage Vis output while when the latched signal value S is low the negative voltage Vis output . Output of the inverted latched value can be accomplished by reversing the voltages applied to the control A and control B signal lines as shown in NEL representation in .

Although the present invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments it is not intended that the invention be limited to these embodiments. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example an essentially limitless number of different nanoscale and mixed nanoscale microscale circuits can be devised to incorporate the NEL of the present invention. The NEL can be fabricated at nanoscale mixed nanoscale microscale and microscale dimensions from FET like and asymmetric switch junctions. Junctions with similar but different characteristics may also be incorporated in the NEL with corresponding changes to enable and control signal line voltage sequences and polarities. As discussed above the pull down line in may not be needed when the source drain line is grounded through resistance elsewhere in a circuit containing the NEL.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purpose of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

