---

title: Method, system, and program product for generating a virtual database
abstract: The present invention provides a virtual database as well as a method, system, and program product for generating a virtual database. Specifically, under the present invention, Service Data Objects (SDOs) corresponding to a plurality of database tables are provided within a virtual container. Once provided, two or more of the SDOs are interrelated to yield the virtual database (having a Virtual Bounded Persistent Memory). In accordance with the present invention, the database tables can be stored within a single (e.g., conventional) database, or databases. In addition, the virtual database can be generated and removed on-demand. Still yet, the virtual database of the present invention can be queried using standard Structured Query Language (SQL) queries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07849114&OS=07849114&RS=07849114
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07849114
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060619
---
In general the present invention relates to a virtual database. Specifically the present invention relates to a method system and program product for generating a virtual database.

Today it is common to migrate data from system to system so that critical business information can be extracted by relating data together e.g. related financial data with manufacturing data customer service data with installed inventory data etc. . It is apparent that the current appetite creativity to relate more and more disparate data domains is indirectly causing using traditional familiar database technologies information technology IT costs to keep spiraling upwards. Using today s standard relational database technologies and the exploding needs to relate disparate data groups domains of information together the IT cost of running an operation will inevitably and rapidly go up proportionally to the increased need for business intelligence needed to run the enterprise.

Under current approaches data warehouses are confined to using a traditional relational database technology to store data. In the case of a virtual data mart SQL views are used to create a specialized query. When using data warehouses or data marts the operator has to move data from various sources. In every case enterprises are forced to spend significant time and resources physically moving the data into a traditional relational database. Such a process can be frustratingly slow and cumbersome.

In view of the foregoing there exists a need for an approach that solves at least one of the deficiencies in the related art.

In general the present invention provides a virtual database as well as a method system and program product for generating a virtual database. Specifically under the present invention Service Data Objects SDOs corresponding to a plurality of database tables are provided within a virtual container. Once provided two or more of the SDOs are interrelated to yield the virtual database having a Virtual Bounded Persistent Memory . In accordance with the present invention the database tables can be stored within a single e.g. conventional database or among multiple databases. In addition the virtual database can be generated and removed on demand. Still yet the virtual database of the present invention can be queried using standard Structured Query Language SQL queries. In any event the present invention allows among other things data to be manipulated without having to move the data from one database or table to another.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a method for generating a virtual database comprising providing in a virtual container Service Data Objects SDOs for each of a plurality of database tables and interrelating at least two of the SDOs in the virtual container to yield the virtual database.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a system for generating a virtual database comprising a system for providing in a virtual container Service Data Objects SDOs for each of a plurality of database tables and a system for interrelating at least two of the SDOs in the virtual container to yield the virtual database.

A third aspect of the present invention provides a program product stored on a computer readable medium for generating a virtual database the computer readable medium comprising program code for causing a computer system to perform the following steps providing in a virtual container Service Data Objects SDOs for each of a plurality of database tables and interrelating at least two of the SDOs in the virtual container to yield the virtual database.

A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a method for deploying an application for generating a virtual database comprising providing a computer infrastructure being operable to provide in a virtual container Service Data Objects SDOs for each of a plurality of database tables and interrelate at least two of the SDOs in the virtual container to yield the virtual database.

A fifth aspect of the present invention provides a virtual database comprising a virtual container and a plurality of Service Data Objects SDOs corresponding to plurality of database tables stored in the virtual container wherein at least two of the SDOs are interrelated within the virtual container.

A sixth aspect of the present invention provides computer software embodied in a propagated signal for generating a virtual database the computer software comprising instructions for causing a computer system to perform the following steps providing in a virtual container Service Data Objects SDOs for each of a plurality of database tables and interrelating at least two of the SDOs in the virtual container to yield the virtual database.

A seventh aspect of the present invention provides a business method for generating a virtual database.

Therefore the present invention provides a virtual database as well as a method system and program product for generating a virtual database.

It is noted that the drawings of the invention are not to scale. The drawings are intended to depict only typical aspects of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements between the drawings.

The present invention provides a virtual database as well as a method system and program product for generating a virtual database. Specifically under the present invention Service Data Objects SDOs corresponding to a plurality of database tables are provided within a virtual container. Once provided two or more of the SDOs are interrelated to yield the virtual database having a Virtual Bounded Persistent Memory . In accordance with the present invention the database tables can be stored within a single e.g. conventional database or databases. In addition the virtual database can be generated and removed on demand. Still yet the virtual database of the present invention can be queried using standard Structured Query Language SQL queries. In any event the present invention allows among other things data to be manipulated without having to move the data from one database or table to another.

The present invention proposes that the previous notions of a finite bounded persistent memory FBPM e.g. Hard Disk section of shared memory etc. can become virtualized. This virtualization will allow tables from widely distributed database s not necessarily relational in nature to be aggregated in virtual space to form a virtual bounded persistent memory VBPM instance. Using this substrate a standard database management system would be adapted to allow for standard ANSI SQL 92 commands and management functions to be built on top of it. The benefits of creating virtual service databases include the ability to 1 aggregate disparate grouping of data in a private virtual space 2 establish relationships between the data in the virtual space 3 prevent the data contained in the FBPM e.g. the real hard disk bounded data from having to be moved around the network like it is today 4 execute SQL commands such as SQL Select commands against the virtual database and not have to pass the commands through to the underlying system like today s Integrator products e.g. DB2 II and 5 pass insertion and updating of records through to the underlying associated tables of the FBPMs that make up the VBPM.

Unlike a Data Warehouse Mart a virtual database can be composed of disparate data from many different sources e.g. SDOs can be built to directly interact not only with databases but also Messaging Oriented Middleware MOM s data feeds RSS and Legacy systems IMS VSAM ISAM without moving the data. Using the Data Mediator Services DMS technology relationships Metadata can be layered on top of a DMS that manages a collection of SDOs and enable information query through standard ANSI SQL and normal SQL Create Retrieve Update Delete CRUD can be executed in this On Demand database. Not only does this provide basic SQL operations but it also enables views transaction support and everything else that is possible with a FBPM database.

The Service Data Object SDO specification is gaining wide spread adoption in service oriented architectures. Within the SDO specification a data graph is provided. A data graph is generally a graph of related objects known as SDOs. For example for an electronic file system a hierarchical data graph can be generated in which individual data objects are represented and interrelated with one another. The SDO specification and the Eclipse Modeling Framework EMF reference implementation define a common set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs and data objects that allow for a common programming methodology across heterogeneous data repositories. The SDO specification allows for disconnected data graphs to be retrieved changed and then persisted by means of a mediator. 

Referring now to the use of SDOs in conjunction with multiple databases A B is depicted in accordance with the present invention. As will be further shown below under the present invention an SDO is provided for each database table that is desired to be connected and or accessed. These SDOs are provided in a virtual container space shown in as VBPM which is accessible directly from application server . Further the VBPM can be queried e.g. through an interface using standard SQL queries. This prevents multiple databases from having to be accessed for queries as well as data from having to be moved around.

Referring now to the provision of SDOs A C within a virtual service database container for database tables A C that are stored in a single database A in accordance with the present invention is depicted. In a typical embodiment a single unique SDO A C is provided and associated with each database table A C. In an alternate embodiment not shown a single SDO could be provided and associated with multiple database tables. In any event for the embodiment shown in once the SDOs A C are provided within virtual container they will be interrelated with one another. In interrelating SDOs A C it should be noted that all SDOs A C do not need to be interrelated with every other SDO A C although this could be done . For example as illustrated SDO A is interrelated with SDO C which itself is interrelated with SDO B. Assume in an illustrative example that a specific client is provided whose financial transactions are stored in an IMS hierarchical database and whose travel and business information is stored in a DB2 relational database travel and business trip information is stored. Prior to the present invention answering questions such as determining what financial transactions are associated with the client for three specific business trips could not be done unless the data from IMS and DB2 databases are brought together in a third relational data store that implements the appropriate metadata relations that enable the aforementioned relational query. By using the DSM Data Mediator Services for the virtual database of the present invention the SDO that acts as a facade for financial records in IMS and another SDO that acts as a facade for travel business trip information are present in the virtual database s DSM. Like any other relational database the DSM cannot support the queries against the many to many relationship scheme that exists between these two example SDOs. The DSM like any other relational database management system will support the creation of an associative table that is commonly used to resolve many to many relationships. Unlike traditional relational database management systems the virtual database s DSM will via its metadata cache support the creation of the associative table and transparently support the query of joins between these two SDOs via an associative table setup by the virtual database.

As shown computer system includes a processing unit a memory a bus and input output I O interfaces . Further computer system is shown in communication with external I O devices resources and fixed storage system s . In general processing unit executes computer program code such as virtual database program which is stored in memory and or fixed storage system s . While executing computer program code processing unit can read and or write data to from memory fixed storage system s and or I O interfaces . Bus provides a communication link between each of the components in computer system . External devices can comprise any devices e.g. keyboard pointing device display etc. that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices.

Computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in one embodiment computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over a network to perform the various process steps of the invention. Moreover computer system is only representative of various possible computer systems that can include numerous combinations of hardware. To this extent in other embodiments computer system can comprise any specific purpose computing article of manufacture comprising hardware and or computer program code for performing specific functions any computing article of manufacture that comprises a combination of specific purpose and general purpose hardware software or the like. In each case the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively. Moreover processing unit may comprise a single processing unit or be distributed across one or more processing units in one or more locations e.g. on a client and server. Similarly memory and or fixed storage system s can comprise any combination of various types of data storage and or transmission media that reside at one or more physical locations. Further I O interfaces can comprise any system for exchanging information with one or more external devices . Still further it is understood that one or more additional components e.g. system software math co processing unit etc. not shown in can be included in computer system . However if computer system comprises a handheld device or the like it is understood that one or more external devices e.g. a display and or fixed storage system s could be contained within computer system not externally as shown.

Fixed storage system s can be any type of systems e.g. databases capable of providing storage for database tables etc. To this extent fixed storage system s could each include one or more storage devices such as magnetic disk drives or optical disk drives. Although not shown additional components such as cache memory communication systems system software etc. may be incorporated into computer system .

Shown in memory of computer system is virtual database program which includes object system interrelationship system query management system and view system . These systems provide the functionality of the present invention discussed above. It should be understood however that the same functionality could be provided with a different configuration of systems than is shown in .

Under the present invention a user administrator will leverage virtual database program to generate a virtual database based on database tables using corresponding SDOs that are interrelated within in a virtual container . User can further leverage virtual database program to query virtual database and or obtain views of the corresponding data. Specifically user will use object system to create deploy or otherwise provide one or more SDOs for each database table that is desired to be represented in virtual database . This operation can include any known techniques for creating or providing SDOs e.g. under the SDO specification . Once SDOs are provided within virtual container interrelationship system will be to interrelate SDOs as desired to yield virtual database . In a typical embodiment at least two SDOs will be interrelated. In any event once virtual database has been generated in this manner user can query the same using standard SQL queries. Such queries will be received and processed by query management system . Specifically query management system will interpret the query and manipulate process and or retrieve the data from database tables based thereon. To this extent query management system also provides an interface for receiving the queries and otherwise interfacing with user . In addition view system can be used to generate any desired views of the data e.g. as requested by user .

While shown and described herein as a method and system for providing generating a virtual database it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure to generate a virtual database. To this extent the computer readable useable medium includes program code that implements each of the various process steps of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprises one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or fixed storage system s e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. and or as a data signal e.g. a propagated signal traveling over a network e.g. during a wired wireless electronic distribution of the program code .

In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to generate a virtual database. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for generating a virtual database. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer infrastructure can be provided and one or more systems for performing the process steps of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the process steps of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic I O system driver for a particular computing and or I O device and the like.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims. For example although the illustrative embodiments show databases A C the present invention could actually be used in conjunction with any type of fixed storage media.

