---

title: Speckle interference laser tracking
abstract: An optical tracking system is disclosed that provides more precise tracking and better performance in an optical mouse. It involves provides a collimated laser, and imaging a reflection of the collimated laser, such that the reflection has a substantially linear phase gradient. The reflection of the laser includes a pattern of speckles due to optical interference effects. The speckles are imaged such that the substantially linear phase gradient restricts any variation in intensity of the imaging of the speckles during a translating motion of the reflection, thereby providing superior tracking performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08089465&OS=08089465&RS=08089465
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08089465
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061116
---
Optical tracking is important in a variety of applications such as for optical computer mice. The performance of such mice has been limited though on low contrast surfaces and at low tracking speeds. A pressing need has been recognized for providing optical tracking systems with greater precision and reaction speed across a greater range of tracking speeds and a greater variety of surfaces.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

An optical tracking system is disclosed that provides more precise tracking and better performance in an optical mouse. It involves providing a collimated laser and imaging a reflection of the collimated laser such that the reflection has a substantially linear phase gradient. The reflection of the laser includes a pattern of speckles due to optical interference effects. The speckles are imaged such that the substantially linear phase gradient restricts any variation in intensity of the imaging of the speckles during a translating motion of the reflection thereby providing superior tracking performance.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Various embodiments provide more precise ways of tracking a laser signal on an optical surface. Some typical optical mice once relied on measuring motion with respect to special reference mousepads more recently optical mice have typically relied on illuminating a reflecting surface with a light emitting diode LED or a laser imaging the reflecting surface thus illuminated and tracking relative motion of the image of the reflecting surface as a mouse containing the optical source and the imager were moved. However there are inherent limitations to these techniques. The light necessarily undergoes a certain degree of diffraction effects between its emission and the surface and between the reflecting surface and the imaging sensor. Optical elements such as lenses used to focus on the image of the reflecting surface also had the potential to introduce further diffraction effects.

These limitations are addressed by various embodiments disclosed herein according to a variety of different devices and methods as illustratively depicted in and the subsequent figures. . depicts a method which may be implementable by a computing system such as those depicted in for example. Method includes step of providing a collimated laser beam which may be linearly circularly randomly or otherwise polarized and step of imaging a reflection of the collimated laser wherein the reflection has a substantially linear phase gradient. These steps may be further understood with reference to the illustrative devices and of and which may be involved in performing the steps of in accordance with certain illustrative embodiments. also depicts additional optional steps in dashed outline which are discussed further below.

The reflection of the collimated laser as provided in step may include a pattern of speckles provides an illustrative example of an imaged speckle from a reflected laser such as may illustratively be used by the embodiments disclosed herein as is further discussed below. The imaged speckle in demonstrates the effectively random pattern of light and dark spots corresponding to areas of high and low intensity in a reflection of a laser due to constructive and destructive interference of reflected components of the laser as is further explained below. Such a fine grained pattern of light and dark spots arise spontaneously in the reflection of a laser on most surfaces therefore making reflected speckle patterns particularly useful for laser tracking on a wide variety of surfaces.

Laser subsequently follows a beam path that takes it out of device to reflect on an ambient reflecting surface in this illustrative embodiment. It passes through aperture on its way in the illustrative embodiment of device depicted in . Device may be configured with a nominal clearance so that reflecting surface is predictably in an anticipated position and orientation relative to the various components of device as depicted in as long as reflecting surface is reasonably flat for example although a very broad variety of different types of surfaces may serve as reflecting surface and function well in cooperation with device .

Lens is disposed adjacent to imaging sensor in the path of the reflection of laser as it is reflected from surface . The laser is reflected from surface and the reflection after passing through lens in this embodiment strikes imaging sensor of device . Imaging sensor may illustratively be composed mainly of a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS array for example. It may also be a different type of imager such as a charge coupled device CCD or any other type of imaging sensor.

When a laser is reflected from almost any type of surface generally other than a finely machined and polished mirror or other optical element its reflection includes a pattern of speckles. This is caused by mutual interference of components of the reflection from microscopic irregularities in the surface. Given irregularities on a typical scale greater than the wavelength of laser as is the case with almost all surfaces the phases of both the real and imaginary components of the wavefront of the reflection have uniform distributions that are not correlated with each other. This results in a negative exponential distribution in the intensity of the reflection on average with randomly distributed local peaks in the intensity of the light within the reflection where the phases of the wavefront components exhibit constructive interference with each other. These are surrounded by local darker areas where the phases of the wavefront components exhibit destructive interference with each other. This is characterized as a speckle pattern.

The speckle pattern of the reflection therefore arises due to patterns of interference with random modifications of the phases of the wavefront components of the laser as it is reflected. The speckle patterns are therefore very sensitive to the phase gradient of the laser. However non linear phase gradient components are inevitably introduced into the laser through diffraction effects from any discontinuity through which it passes including the source from which it emerges. Because of such a non linear phase gradient a tracking image of the reflection on the reflecting surface typically exhibits changes in local intensities when relative phase relationships from speckle contributors are not preserved due to effectively non linear phase components as an image moves along the reflecting surface. This is particularly true for slow movements and small movements for which variations in intensity of imaged speckles may be least predictable or most pronounced.

However these effects are restricted or minimized by embodiments such as device of for example. Rather than imaging the reflection of the laser on the reflecting surface device is configured to image the reflection of the collimated laser with an image focus on aperture which lies in the path of laser . The limiting effects that this addresses are described further as follows after which the advantages of device are further described.

Aperture acts as a discontinuity in the path of laser . As with any wavefront passing through a narrow slit aperture or discontinuity laser can effectively be treated as emerging from aperture as its local source. As it emerges through aperture collimated laser has minimized diffraction effects and a substantially linear phase gradient. The discontinuity of aperture also introduces a new source of diffraction at its edges however. For example aperture may be circular and the circular edge of aperture introduces a toroidal diffraction wavefront about the circumference of the beam which diffuses across a greater part of the cross section of the beam the farther it gets away from the discontinuity that introduced the diffraction effect.

By the time the laser intercepts and reflects from reflecting surface the diffraction wavefront has had a chance to spread across a significant fraction of the beam s cross section and distributes non linear phase gradient components across much or all of the reflection. If the reflection of laser is imaged with a focus on the reflecting surface therefore the imaging picks up on those substantial diffraction induced non linear phase gradient components and therefore also receives random fluctuations in local intensity of the reflection interfering with and limiting the precision and performance of the tracking.

In contrast device is configured to image the reflection of the collimated laser with an image focus on aperture as noted above. This is accomplished in part due to lens which does not have its object plane on reflecting surface but rather has a significantly longer focal length to place its object plane at the location of aperture . This allows an image of the aperture to be formed at the image plane of the system where imaging sensor is located as depicted in . In other embodiments the reflection of the collimated laser may be imaged with an image focus at other locations intermediate between a collimated laser source and a reflecting surface . The focal length to within normal design tolerances is approximately equal to a sum of the path length between lens and the reflecting surface plus the path length between surface and aperture along the path followed by the laser and its reflection. Lens therefore images the reflecting surface in a substantially unfocused manner but relying on the continuity of the image of the aperture through the incidence of reflection and ignoring the image of the laser at the position of reflection. Because the reflection of collimated laser is imaged at imaging sensor with an image focused on aperture the image reconstructs the state of the beam of laser along with its substantially linear phase gradient at the position of aperture at the very origin of the diffraction effects that introduced the non linearities to the phase gradient. These components of device therefore provide imaging of the reflection of collimated laser such that its reflection has a substantially linear phase gradient. Device is therefore configured for providing the reflection of the laser to the imaging sensor with a phase gradient having reduced nonlinearity for example this illustratively includes the nonlinearity of the phase gradient being significantly reduced as compared with an otherwise comparable device configured to provide the reflection to an imaging sensor such that the reflection is focused on the reflecting surface and incorporates the diffraction effects and nonlinear phase gradient effects inherent in providing the reflection with its focus on the reflecting surface.

The components of device also therefore image the reflection such that any variation in intensity of the imaging of speckles in the reflection of the collimated laser during a translating motion of reflection is restricted as in step of method in . Because the speckles are imaged with a substantially unmodulated phase and a substantially linear phase gradient the interference patterns giving rise to the speckle pattern remains stable during translational motion of device across the reflecting surface any variations in the intensity of the individual speckles are relatively restricted and the motion of device across the reflecting surface can be tracked much more rapidly and precisely.

Because the beam path of laser and its reflection are free of any focusing elements in this embodiment or any intermediate discontinuities such as an aperture there is once again no need to worry about the diffraction effects and non linear phase gradient of an image focused on the reflecting surface . Rather collimator is configured in this embodiment to provide laser such that it restricts the beam diameter of the laser purely by the collimator optics rather than using an intermediate aperture. The restricted beam diameter thus provided helps to minimize any diffraction effects or non linear phase gradient in the image of the reflection of the laser as it is received by imaging sensor and to optimize the imaging of the speckle pattern by the imaging sensor . The speckle images in the reflection of the laser may then be tracked with high precision by imaging sensor and the signal therefrom may be delivered to an imaging processor not depicted in in operative connection with the imaging sensor and translated into an indication of relative motion of the device. This reflects another illustrative embodiment demonstrating an exemplary implementation of inventive principles such as providing reflected speckle images with substantially linear phase gradients and minimized variation in intensity as a function of movement thereby contributing to the speed and precision of a laser tracking device.

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. As described herein such executable instructions may be stored on a medium such that they are capable of being read and executed by one or more components of a computing system thereby configuring the computing system with new capabilities.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one illustrative embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Mobile computing system also includes network . Mobile computing device is illustratively in wireless communication with network which may be the Internet a wide area network or a local area network for example by sending and receiving electromagnetic signals of a suitable protocol between communication interface and wireless interface . Wireless interface may be a wireless hub or cellular antenna for example or any other signal interface. Wireless interface in turn provides access via network to a wide array of additional computing resources illustratively represented by computing resources and . Naturally any number of computing devices in any locations may be in communicative connection with network . Computing device is enabled to make use of executable instructions stored on the media of memory component such as executable instructions that enable computing device to translate an indication of a changing position received from a laser mouse into a changing position of a pointer on a graphical interface and other tasks in a few illustrative embodiments.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. As a particular example while the terms computer computing device or computing system may herein sometimes be used alone for convenience it is well understood that each of these could refer to any computing device computing system computing environment mobile device or other information processing component or context and is not limited to any individual interpretation. As another particular example while many embodiments are presented with illustrative elements that are widely familiar at the time of filing the patent application it is envisioned that many new innovations in computing technology will affect elements of different embodiments in such aspects as user interfaces user input methods computing environments and computing methods and that the elements defined by the claims may be embodied according to these and other innovative advances while still remaining consistent with and encompassed by the elements defined by the claims herein.

