---

title: Nanoporous carbide derived carbon with tunable pore size
abstract: The present invention provides a method for producing a nanoporous carbide-derived carbon composition with a tunable pore structure and a narrow pore size. Also provided are compositions prepared by the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08137650&OS=08137650&RS=08137650
owner: Drexel University
number: 08137650
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060323
---
This application is the National Stage of PCT Application number PCT US2004 021382 filed Jul. 2 2004 which claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 484 840 filed Jul. 3 2003 each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 484 840 filed Jul. 3 2003 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00014 01 1 0762 awarded by the Office of Naval Research ONR . The government has certain rights in the invention.

Porous solids are of great technological importance due to their ability to interact with gases and liquids not only at the surface but throughout their bulk. While large pores can be produced and well controlled in a variety of materials nanopores in the range of 2 nm and below micropores according to IUPAC classification are usually achieved only in carbons or zeolites. During the past decades major efforts in the field of porous materials have been directed toward control of the size shape and uniformity of the pores.

Highly crystallized zeolites have a narrow pore size distribution but discrete pore sizes and the fine tuning of pore size is impossible in zeolites because pores are controlled by a lattice structure. Porous carbons produced by thermal decomposition of organic materials may have pore diameters down to 0.3 nm or mesopores of several nanometers but they typically have a broad pore size distribution that limits their ability to separate molecules of different sizes. Materials with a tunable pore structure at the atomic level and a narrow pore size distribution do not exist.

Selective etching of carbides is an attractive technique for the synthesis of various carbon structures from nanotubes to diamonds Derycke et al. 2002 2 1043 1046 Gogotsi et al. 2001 411 283 287 . Carbon produced by the extraction of metals from carbides is called carbide derived carbon CDC Gogotsi et al. 1994 367 628 630 Gogotsi et al. 1997 7 1841 1848 . Since the rigid metal carbide lattice is used as a template and the metal is extracted layer by layer atomic level control can be achieved during synthesis and the carbon structure can be templated by the carbide structure. Further structure modification and control can be achieved by varying the temperature gas composition and other process variables. Reaction 1 SiC 2Cl SiCl C has been used for the production of silicon tetrachloride since 1918 but the remaining carbon was usually burned. The linear reaction kinetics of reaction 1 allows transformations to large depth until the particle or component is completely converted to carbon Ersoy et al. 2001 5 55 62 . The transformation is conformal and does not lead to changes in sample size or shape.

During the last decades various CDCs have been investigated and specific surface areas SSA of up to 2000 m g with small pore sizes have been reported Gogotsi et al. 1997 7 1841 1848 Boehm et al. 12149 150 Pergamon Oxford 1975 Gordeevet al. 2000 42 2314 2317 Fedorov et al. 1995 39 73 83 . Comparison of reported data on CDCs shows that for different carbides SiC TiC ZrC BC TaC and MoC and chlorination temperatures pores between 0.8 and 2.1 nm determined by the structure of the carbide precursor and process parameters were produced. However no control over the pore size or distribution was disclosed.

The present invention provides a method of tuning pore size in CDCs by controlling the synthesis temperature.

An object of the present invention is to provide a method of producing a nanoporous carbide derived carbon composition with a tunable pore structure and a narrow pore size. The method of the present invention comprises extracting metals from a carbide using a halogen at elevated temperature to produce a nanoporous carbide derived carbon composition with a tunable pore structure and a narrow pore size. Pore size is controlled by selection of the carbide and or the halogen. Tuning of the pore size is achieved by changing the extraction temperature.

Another object of the present invention is to provide nanoporous carbide derived carbon compositions produced with or without mesopores. Uses for these compositions include but are not limited to molecular sieves gas storage catalysts adsorbents battery electrodes supercapacitors water or air filters and medical devices.

The present invention provides a method of producing a nanoporous carbide derived carbon CDC composition with a tunable pore structure and a narrow pore size. In the method of the present invention a metal carbide is exposed to a halogen so that the metal is extracted from the carbide. The inventors have found that this halogen extraction when performed under elevated temperatures produces a nanoporous carbide derived carbon composition with a tunable pore structure and a narrow ranges of pore sizes. Desired pore sizes can be achieved through selection of the halogen and or the carbide.

Halogens useful in the present invention include fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. The halogen may be in the form of a gas or liquid. By halogen gas it is meant to be inclusive of any gas or gas mixture which comprises at least one halogen. Further the halogen gas may contain multiple halogens. In a preferred embodiment the halogen is in the form of a chlorine containing gas or a gas mixture containing chlorine and argon Ar .

The pore size can be selected by changing the halogen. The heavier the halogen used the larger the resulting pores. Likewise the smallest pores are produced by fluorine with larger halogens like chlorine bromine and iodine producing larger pores.

The carbide used in the present invention may be any suitable carbide. Examples of suitable carbides include but are not limited to SiC TiC ZrC BC TaC and MoC. By utilizing different carbides the pore sizes can also be tuned to a selected or desired size. Thus both the halogen and the carbide may be chosen to provide a desired pore size. In a preferred embodiment the carbide is TiSiC. CDC produced from TiSiChas a more narrow pore size distribution than single wall carbon nano tubes or activated carbons and it has a pore size distribution that is comparable to that of zeolites. TiSiCis available in different forms including powders and bulk samples. TiSiCis a soft ceramic with a lamellar structure which can easily be machined to any shape. Etching of TiSiCgenerates a larger pore volume about 75 as compared to TiC or SiC which are about 56.2 and 57.3 respectively.

The method of the present invention allows tuning the porosity of carbide derived carbons CDCs with sub ngstr m accuracy in a wide range by controlling the halogen temperature. The desired pore size of the composition is achieved by selection of a halogen and of a carbide each for their respective tuning ability. Elevated temperatures for the halogen extraction are then chosen to selectively tune the carbide composition. Preferably the CDCs of the present invention are produced at elevated temperatures from between 200 C. to 1400 C. CDCs can be produced as a powder a coating a membrane or parts with near final shapes. The CDC may be produced with or without mesopores. When the elevated temperature is above 700 C. isotherms of CDCs are produced with the presence of mesopores.

Tunable pore size can be achieved with the method of the present invention with at least 0.05 nm accuracy.

For example the inventors have found that chlorination in a flow of pure Clfor 3 hours in a quartz tube furnace results in extraction of Ti and Si from TiSiCleading to the formation of carbon by the reaction TiSiC 8Cl SiCl 3TiCl 2C.

Several different techniques were independently used to measure the resulting pore size. These included argon Ar and methyl chloride CHCl sorption as well as small angle X ray scattering SAXS . As shown in and the pore sizes of CDCs increase with increasing temperature. The differential pore size distributions for CDC as measured by methyl chloride are illustrated in . The differential pore size distributions for CDC as measured by argon adsorption technique are illustrated in . No mesopores or macropores were detected at 300 500 C. A small volume of mesopores of 2 4 nm in size appeared at 700 C. and the volume of mesopores increased sharply at 1100 C. and above. Pore size distributions were calculated using the Horvath Kawazoe method and assuming a slit pore model. Ar adsorption was measured at 186 C. The sorption isotherms of low temperature CDCs up to 600 C. obtained using N Ar or CHCl were of type I in the Brunauer classification which is evidence of the presence of nanopores and the absence of meso or macropores. This is in agreement with the differential pore size distributions shown in . Very small pore sizes were achieved at low temperatures just slightly larger than the interplanar spacing in graphite 0.3354 nm . Remarkably the pore size distributions are very narrow and close to those of VPI 5 zeolite.

Isotherms of CDCs produced above 700 C. were of type IV which indicates the presence of mesopores. Total pore volumes observed for the samples produced at 700 C. 900 C. and 1100 C. were almost the same but the pore size distributions were different.

Mesopore volume and size was found to increase with increasing chlorination temperatures. Their equivalent radius was less than 3 nm at 700 C. and about 6 nm at 1100 C. . Weight loss and energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDS analysis of the samples after chlorination suggested almost complete removal of Ti and Si above 400 C.

Since the CDCs retained the original volume of the carbide precursor it is fair to assume the total pore volume to be the same after chlorination at different temperatures. The maximum pore volume of about 0.64 cm g accessible to Ar and Nin CDC after heat treatment at 700 C. to 1400 C. is in agreement with the theoretically calculated value of 0.645 cm g. SAXS measurements confirm the evolution of pore size with increasing processing temperature.

The analysis of the CHCl sorption data assumed slit pores which implies that the sizes in are associated with the height of the slits. Slit pores are the logical choice given the layered nature of the precursor material. For slit pores approximated as cylinders of radius R and height D R D 12 R 2. SAXS confirms the aforementioned sorption data and shows that pore size can be controlled with better than 0.05 nm accuracy . This result is remarkable in that it has never been demonstrated for any other porous material.

Microstructural studies of CDCs were conducted to explain their structural reorganization and the development of their porous structure with temperature. With increasing temperature the specific distance for jump of carbon atoms increased and the pore size increased accordingly.

Raman spectroscopy shown in and demonstrate that carbon already forms at 200 C. However XRD shows peaks of the initial carbide thus the transformation was not complete at this temperature. Raman spectra and TEM micrographs of CDC were produced at different temperatures. illustrates the Raman spectra of CDC synthesized at different temperatures. A low position of G band and upshifted D band in the Raman spectrum is likely the result of carbon bonding to Si and significant sphybridization of carbon. Si 

Ti can be extracted by Clat lower temperatures than Si. Complete removal of Si from CDC and a decreased amount of trapped chlorine leads to an increase in pore volume from 0.25 cm g at 300 C. to 0.645 cm g at 700 C. A slow increase in intensity and downshift of the D band in the Raman spectra are observed with increasing temperature. According to high resolution TEM analysis and selected area diffraction the CDC samples produced at lower temperatures were completely amorphous. Noticeable ordering of graphite starts at 700 C. and nanocrystalline graphite appears at 1200 C. The FWHM of the G band decreases slightly above 600 C. but only at 1200 C. does Raman spectroscopy show the formation of ordered graphitic carbon.

Total volume and characteristic dimensions of meso and nanopores can be controlled by selection of a binary or ternary carbide or a carbide solid solution and variation of the chlorination process parameters. For example carbon derived from SiC at 900 C. has a narrow pore size distribution and an average pore size of 0.65 nm similar to CDCs produced from TiSiCat 700 C. but with no mesopores. Carbon made from SiC at 1200 C. had a pore size of 1.2 nm and SiC and BC derived carbons have values from 0.8 to 2.1 nm. Depending on the carbide structure the pore volume of CDCs can vary from 50 to 80 . CDCs derived from TiSiChave the theoretical density of 0.55 g cm. CDC samples are hydrophilic and adsorb water quickly rapidly sinking in water. However if the surface is sealed with a sealing compound lacquer polymer nail polish or other suitable sealant they float because their density is well below 1 g cm.

It is notable that CDCs do not have macroporosity if produced from a dense ceramic or a carbide single crystal. However a controlled amount of macroporosity can be introduced by using sintered porous ceramics. Macroporosity or mesoporosity that appears at high chlorination temperatures is not desirable for molecular sieve membranes but would be necessary for catalytic and some other applications because it allows easier access to nanopores. Based on their tunable porous structures controlled surface chemistry and other properties CDCs may be used for some applications where single wall carbon nanotubes are currently considered. For example CDC is an attractive material for electrodes for electrochemical double layer capacitors commonly called supercapacitors because the pore size distribution can be tuned to match various electrolytes.

Hydrogen uptake depends on the porous structure of the adsorbent. The highest uptake was achieved in nanoporous carbons with SSA above 1000 m g and almost no mesopores. CDCs produced at 600 C. and 1100 C. have SSA of 1061 m g and 1431 m g respectively and SSA of up to 2000 m g has been measured for SiC and BC derived CDC. The ability to tune the pore size to exactly fit the hydrogen or other gas molecule is of principal importance for gas storage applications. About 40 wt. Clis trapped in CDCs produced at 300 400 C. at room temperature and ambient pressure if the cooling is done in argon and it can reach 55 60 wt. when cooled in Cl. The amount of Clstored decreases with increasing pore size reaching less than 5 wt. at 1200 C. The stored chlorine is slowly released and its amount goes down to approximately 20 wt. after storage for ten days in open air.

Fast release of atomic chlorine is observed upon heating in He up to 600 C. at 10 C. minute. Attempts to measure SSA of CDC produced at 300 C. by the BET method resulted in the unreasonably low values of 162 m g for Nand 382 m g for Ar. This clearly shows the selectivity of CDC to different gases. A significant volume of nanopores inaccessible to large molecules may allow for the separation of hydrogen from Nand other gases. Further the combination of near net shape and very mild chlorination temperatures are not only unique to TiSiC but also bode well for the inexpensive mass production of CDC components which unlike zeolites can have a large size and complex shape.

Total pore volume V and average pore size were calculated from Ar and CHCl adsorption isotherms according to HK Horvath and Kawazoe theory. Specific surface area according to BET Brunauer Emmet and Teller theory and nanopore volume was calculated using t plots based on the CHCl or Ar sorption isotherms. Nitrogen adsorption did not produce reliable results on samples with a pore size smaller than 1 nm. Ar adsorption Micromeretics ASAP Pore Analyzer was used to measure pore sizes above and under 1 nm but the technique required long periods of time 5 days for equilibration and could not produce the full distribution when the pore size approached 0.5 nm. The methyl chloride adsorption isotherms were used to measure the pore size below 0.7 nm assuming a slit pore shape.

Small angle X ray scattering SAXS was performed on a multi angle diffractometer equipped with a Cu rotating anode double focusing optics evacuated flight path and 2 D wire detector. Data was collected over the Q range 0.005 1.4 . Powder samples were loaded into 1.5 mm diameter quartz capillary tubes and measured in transmission for 1 hour. The scattering intensity from an empty capillary was then collected and subtracted with sample absorption corrected. Expecting a finite but narrow

distribution of radii of gyration R a modified Guinier analysis was employed to obtain the mean pore size and distribution. The fraction volume of pores of a given size was then estimated for each sample. By deconvoluting the experimental ln I vs. Qcurves into components corresponding to pores with different R distribution functions of Rwere found.

Raman microspectroscopy Renishaw 1000 Ar ion laser 514.5 nm transmission electron microscopy TEM JEOL 2010F energy dispersive spectroscopy EDS and X ray diffraction XRD Siemens were used to study the structure of CDC powders. In plane crystal size of graphite Lwas calculated by the Tuinstra and Koenig equation 1 L I I where Iand Iare intensities of disorder induced D band and graphite G band assigned to zone center phonons of Esymmetry.

