---

title: Monitor and methods for characterizing airborne particulates
abstract: A dust monitor is disclosed that is suitably deployed in dusty environments and capable of providing near real-time indications of exposure to airborne particulates. The monitor includes a filter and filter assembly made of materials that do not interfere with subsequent instrumental (such as spectrometric) analysis for detecting and/or quantitating an analyte. In some disclosed embodiments, the filter is made of nylon or other material that is readily subjected to thermal destruction prior to spectrometric analysis. The dust monitor also includes a humidity correction feature that permits the filter to be made of ashable organic materials even if those materials are not highly hydrophobic. Transport devices are provided for shipment of the filter and/or filter assembly to an analytical laboratory which prevent loss of particulate matter and which facilitate an accurate analysis procedure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07947503&OS=07947503&RS=07947503
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of Health and Human Services
number: 07947503
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060614
---
The present application is the U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2006 023166 filed Jun. 14 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 691 564 filed Jun. 17 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made by The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health Centers for Disease Control and Prevention an agency of the United States Government.

A dust monitor and related methods are disclosed that are capable of detecting and or quantitating particulates in an environment such as particulate concentration in ambient air and identifying and or quantitating at least one component of the collected particulates. For example the monitor is a personal dust monitor worn by workers in dusty environments such as mines where dust exposure levels are monitored to avoid health problems and the presence of injurious materials in the dust is determined.

Because the lungs are a major interface between the body and its environment airborne particulates can present health risks to workers in dusty environments. Well known examples of occupationally related pulmonary diseases include coal worker s pneumoconiosis CWP induced by exposure to coal dust silicosis induced by exposure to particles of crystalline silicon dioxide usually encountered in nature as quartz and asbestosis caused by exposure to environmental asbestos particles. To reduce the incidence of severe long term health effects of such exposures occupational regulations mandate monitoring exposure to particulates in certain work environments.

For example the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 mandated measurement of personal exposure to coal mine dust in the United States. A number of air sampling devices have evolved in response to this type of requirement. A common approach is to use small cyclone air samplers such as those available through Mine Safety Appliances Co. Pittsburgh Pa. or SKC Inc. Eighty Four Pa. that can be placed in the work environment or attached to a worker. The cyclone separates smaller respirable particles from larger nonrespirable particles and collects the respirable particles on a filter for subsequent gravimetric analysis.

The collection of dust particles for subsequent gravimetric analysis can provide an indication of a total particulate exposure over the collection period but this technique is unable to provide real time measurements of dust exposure as it occurs. Over the last few decades several methods have been developed to provide a continuous direct reading of airborne particulate mass concentration. These techniques have included light scattering nephelometry absorption photometry beta radiation attenuation in which beta radiation is attenuated by interaction with electrons in atoms of particulates measurement of a pressure differential across a sampling tube into which dust particles are drawn and collected as in U.S. Pat. No. 6 401 520 and resonance frequency decrement.

Resonance frequency decrement devices provide a mass in combination with an energy storage device such as a spring or electromagnetic equivalent that oscillates the mass harmonically at its natural resonance frequency which is typically proportional to the square root of the ratio of the system stiffness constant and its mass. As this mass increases during particle collection the system resonant frequency diminishes. This frequency decrement is a measure of collected particle mass. Examples of this technique which are further described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 349 844 include an oscillating wire or ribbon used as a particle impaction surface a quartz crystal piezo balance a tapered element oscillating microbalance TEOM and an oscillating filter tape monitor. An advantage of resonant mass monitoring devices is that they provide a continuous direct mass sensing technique with the closest approximation to a reference gravimetric method.

The TEOM technique was pioneered by Rupprecht Patashnick Co. now part of Thermo Electron Corp. pending part of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. as illustrated in U.S. Pat. No. 3 926 271. In that early approach the microbalance had a tapered tubular element clamped at one end while the other end was free to vibrate a mass measurement platform. The tapered tubular element was set into oscillation and a feedback system maintained the oscillation. A change of mass on the oscillating platform was determined by measuring the resonant frequency of the tapered tubular element which changed in mathematical relationship to the mass loading of the tapered tubular element.

A variety of resonance frequency microbalances have been developed in recent years. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 349 844 disclosed a resonance frequency microbalance in which a particulate collection filter membrane was oscillated perpendicular to the plane of the filter. In other work the Rupprecht Patashnick R P TEOM has also been developed in one case into a device that can be used for EPA required monitoring of particulate concentration in outdoor environments Patashnick and Rupprecht 41 1079 1991 . TEOMs may additionally be adapted for use in a variety of settings including workplaces. A TEOM monitor draws in an air sample that is typically heated to about 45 C. to reduce relative humidity and particles are subsequently collected on a Teflon and fiberglass filter that is held by and oscillates with a mounting platform on the tip of a glass or metal tube. The specialized Teflon and fiberglass filter of a TEOM monitor has been designed to provide a very hydrophobic matrix that minimizes the collection of airborne moisture that may otherwise collect on the filter and provide an inaccurately high particulate mass determination.

A recent embodiment of the R P TEOM device is the battery operated Series 3600 Personal Dust Monitor PDM which is contained in a compact housing that can be attached to a worker s belt. The PDM separates smaller particles of the respirable size range from larger particles that would less readily reach the lungs when inhaled. The air carrying respirable particles is then flowed through a hydrophobic filter on the mounting platform where the particulate matter is collected and its mass is determined by a decrement of resonance oscillation of the TEOM.

Although such microbalances are able to accurately determine a mass of collected particulates they are unable to chemically identify the particles that are collected and measured. For example it is sometimes helpful to determine the mass concentration of quartz particles in coal mine dust particles of mixed composition because of the increased risk of disease associated with quartz dust exposure. At the present time the chemical identification of particulates is accomplished by their collection through a separate device such as a cyclone on a filter that is then ashed and subjected to spectroscopic analysis. An example of a technique for analysis of quartz in coal mine dust is found in the NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods NMAM Fourth Edition Method 7603. Another quartz analytical method for the infrared determination of quartz in respirable coal mine dust is provided in Method P 7 from the Mine Safety and Health Administration MSHA .

Unfortunately it has not been possible to perform certain advantageous types of accurate spectroscopic analysis on the filters used in existing oscillating microbalances because the filters in those devices such as the TEOM monitor have been specially designed to provide a hydrophobic substrate that collects as little moisture as possible on the filter. These specialized filters are made of Teflon and fiberglass and their associated mounting platforms sometimes include inorganic materials such as titanium dioxide TiO pigments. These materials can not be readily subjected to thermal or chemical destruction that is the first step in many instrumental analytical methods such as spectroscopy. For example the filter and or its mounting platform are not readily subject to low temperature ashing. Even if the platform or filter is destroyed it may contain inorganic materials that can interfere with spectroscopic analysis of the particles that have been collected on the filter.

A method is therefore disclosed for determining a mass of dust and identifying at least one component of the collected dust. The dust is drawn into a monitor containing a mass determination device that collects the dust on a filter. The monitor inlet and housing define an airflow pathway leading from an external environment into the monitor and through the filter. The filter itself consists essentially of material that is ashable for an instrumental analysis for example a photometric analysis such as a spectroscopic analysis without interference with one or more analytes on the filter. For example the filter is made entirely of organic materials that are capable of being thermally or chemically destroyed for spectroscopic analysis and that do not produce overlap or interference with the spectroscopic characteristics of the analyte s . In particular examples thermal or chemical destruction can take the form of thermal ashing microwave ashing low temperature ashing or chemical destruction.

In the disclosed method dust particles of a desired size range are collected from air that moves along the airflow pathway and through the filter. The mass determination device then determines the mass of dust collected on the filter for example providing real time nearly instantaneous readings of concentrations of dust detected in the filtered air. The filter is then removed from the monitor and ashed for spectroscopic analysis to identify the at least one component of the dust. In particular examples of the method the identified component is quartz and in other particular examples a spectroscopic method provides a quantitative analysis that both identifies the presence of the particle and quantitates the amount of the particle that is present.

The monitor may be designed to be of portable configuration so that it may be readily moved carried or attached to a person working in an environment in which dust concentration is to be monitored. For example it may be used for varied environmental sampling purposes at locations where it has been positioned or as another example it may be attached at belt level or to the belt of a coal miner in a mine. To help assure that particulates are collected from a zone of inhalable air a flexible conduit can be positioned to provide an air inlet opening that is located above the waist or shoulders of a person wearing the monitor for example within 18 inches 46 cm of the mouth and nose. Although the air inlet can be positioned on the upper chest or shoulders it is often less intrusive to the wearer when secured to a headlamp on a helmet hard hat worn by the worker.

In a particular disclosed embodiment the mass determining device is a resonance frequency microbalance such as a TEOM device within the monitor that oscillates the filter at a resonance frequency that changes in response to increased mass collected by the filter. Mass determination is performed by quantitating a change in the resonance frequency of the oscillations and this mass determination can be used to calculate a concentration of particles present in the air drawn through the filter. In the disclosed microbalance the filter is mounted on a platform that oscillates moving the filter and platform together. The mounting platform and filter can be removed as a unit from the monitor to minimize disturbing the particulates on the filter as may occur when the filter is separated from the mounting platform.

Particular examples of the filter are fibrous nonwoven filters that consist essentially of purely organic polymer for example a single organic polymer that minimizes spectroscopic signals that would otherwise be obtained if a more complex chemical composition involving inorganics was chosen. The mounting platform on which the filter is mounted is also ideally made entirely of a purely organic material without the presence of inorganic pigments that can interfere with spectroscopic analysis. The use of an entirely organic material more readily permits ashing of the filter and its platform at a low temperature. Examples of the filter material include polyvinyl chloride polyvinyl chloride acrylic copolymer polypropylene polyethylene polyester or nylon. Although the filter is readily made of a single one of these materials combinations of filter materials are also possible. The filter and its mounting support are also preferably substantially free or completely free of glass polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE titanium dioxide or other mineral matter. These materials which are typically incorporated into microbalance filters are not readily subjected to thermal or chemical destruction and or interfere with spectroscopic detection of analytes such as quartz. Quartz fiber is utilized in some specialty disc filters where heat resistance is advantageous. This filter composition would also be among those unsuitable for the disclosed method. 

In a particular example of the method the filter is subjected to infrared spectroscopic analysis or other spectroscopic method such as a quantitative spectrometric analysis that determines the quantity of an analyte such as quartz that is present on the filter. It is often helpful for the filter to be removed from the monitor as a unit with the filter mounting platform and both the filter and platform subjected to thermal or chemical destruction such as ashing. This approach minimizes dislodgement of particles from the filter that occurs when the filter is separated from the mounting platform and minimizes handling time and effort. A support that is entirely or almost entirely of organic composition that is substantially ashable for spectroscopic analysis helps avoid spectroscopic interference between the chemical spectra of the analyte and the filter support platform material. Alternate filter assembly designs may permit the quantitative removal of the filtration element and collected dust from the assembly and the processing of the filtration element alone.

It is useful to heat air in the airflow pathway of the monitor to reduce the relative humidity of the air and avoid inaccurate mass readings that also include water deposited on or absorbed by the filter. An additional or alternative approach to this problem is to sense a relative humidity in the airflow pathway and correct the mass determination to compensate for the moisture from the air that collects on the filter. This humidity correction approach is particularly helpful when using the organic ashable filters disclosed herein which are more hygroscopic than the highly hydrophobic filter materials used in the prior art. The humidity correction helps compensate for the use of the more hygroscopic materials that are more readily subjected to thermal and chemical destruction than the Teflon and glass filters previously used in microbalance technology. A variety of humidity correction approaches can be used but a particular disclosed embodiment corrects the calculated mass determination by subtracting a humidity correction factor that is proportional to change in detected airflow or alternately ambient relative humidity.

Because the spectroscopic analysis is often performed remotely from the dust collection and mass determination in the monitor the removed filter and optionally its associated mounting platform is placed in a substantially dust tight receptacle. In particular examples the receptacle is an ashable container and the filter and container are ashed together. The simultaneous thermal destruction of both the container and filter and optionally any associated mounting platform improves the accuracy of the spectroscopic analysis by avoiding the introduction of impurities or the loss of analyte. It is often desirable that the ashable container have a mass not exceeding approximately one gram though lower mass may be helpful to minimize interference with spectroscopic analysis and reduce ashing time which may depend on ashing method ashing equipment and specific material ashed . In particular embodiments the receptacle is a sealable polymeric plastic bag and the bag is sealed after the filter is placed in the bag for transport to a site of spectroscopic analysis.

Alternatively the receptacle is a rigid rinsable container not intended for simultaneous thermal destruction with the filter or its associated mounting platform. In this embodiment the filter and any mounting platform is removed from the container and the container is rinsed prior to spectroscopic analysis of the filter to remove any dust retained in the container so that it will be included in the spectroscopic analysis. The rigid rinsable container may be for example a plastic cup having a mounting device to which the filter is attached within the housing keeping the filter immobile.

The monitor of the disclosed method determines a volume of air drawn through the filter while dust particles are collected on it and calculates a concentration of dust in the environment from a mass of dust collected in a volume of air that has flowed through the filter. The concentration of analyte may also be calculated once the collected mass of analyte on the filter has been determined.

In addition to the disclosed method this specification also describes a personal dust monitor that includes a housing and a mass determination device within the housing that collects dust on a filter to determine a mass of dust collected by the filter. The housing defines an airflow pathway into the housing and through the filter. Air is drawn through the airflow pathway and filter with a pump that generates a negative pressure across the filter. The filter consists essentially of organic material that is readily thermally destroyed for example by ashing for instrumental such as a photometric for example spectroscopic analysis without interference with an analyte on the filter. For many health related assessments the monitor preferably includes an intake device such as a differential particle size cyclone preseparator that removes nonrespirable larger particles from the airflow pathway prior to them reaching the filter. An impactor preseparator may be used in other cases. The filter therefore collects particulates of a desired size range from the air that moves along the pathway through the filter.

The disclosed mass determination device in the housing is capable of nearly instantaneous and continuous determination of mass collected on the filter. The device is for example a resonance frequency microbalance in which the microbalance oscillates the filter at a resonance frequency that changes for example decreases in response to increased mass on the filter. In a particular example the microbalance is a tapered element oscillating microbalance for example a TEOM personal dust monitor.

As already noted the filter can consist essentially of a single polymer or combination of polymers such as polyvinyl chloride polyvinyl chloride acrylic copolymer polypropylene polyethylene polyester or nylon and is substantially or completely free of glass quartz fiber polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE or titanium dioxide. The filter is a nonwoven material that can contain a fiber binder in addition to the organic fibers of the filter. In some embodiments the filter fibers may be self binding. The filter can also include a backing particularly a backing made of a nonhygroscopic material for example a thermoplastic or a noncellulose material.

Within the monitor the filter is mounted to a support that oscillates in a unit assembly with the filter and is removable from the instrument housing. The support also consists essentially or entirely of organic material that is ashable for spectroscopic analysis without spectroscopic interference with an analyte on the filter.

The monitor may also include a connector for connecting the housing to a person wearing the personal dust monitor for example a belt attachment that allows the monitor to be secured to the belt of a coal mine worker. An elongated flexible conduit attached to the monitor also provides an air inlet with a mount for mounting the air inlet on the upper body for example on the shoulders or head of a subject wearing the personal dust monitor. The monitor may also include one or more heaters for the airflow pathway to help heat the air and reduce its relative humidity a humidity sensor that senses humidity of air in the airflow pathway and a humidity compensator that corrects the determined mass of dust to compensate for an effect of humidity on mass determination via filter moisture absorption characteristics. The monitor may also be present in a kit that contains the substantially dust tight receptacle for transporting the filter once the filter is removed from the housing. The kit may also include multiple interchangeable TEOM units of different designs to accommodate use of different filter types.

In some embodiments the monitor is present in a kit that includes attachable heat resistant inlets for example steel or glass tubes which may be mounted at the end of or replace the flexible inlet conduit. An attached inlet is then placed in a particulate bearing gas effluent stream for example an industrial exhaust stack or an engine tail pipe. The diameter of the inlet and the air sampling rate are selected to achieve an isokinetic sampling arrangement in which no particle concentration or size bias occurs from the sampling process. An industrial dust sample is thereby collected which is subsequently analyzed for one or more analytes after ashing of the TEOM filter.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of several embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

An instrumental analysis refers to an analysis performed with a scientific instrument for example an automated spectroscope. An analytical instrument detects and or quantitates a signal originating with a physical or chemical property of a sample typically changing it from a form not directly detectable or measurable by an analyst into a form that can be detected and measured.

A photometric analysis involves an analytical procedure or physical phenomenon in which light energy originates from or interacts with a sample. This may involve light emission absorption scattering refraction diffraction or rotation. Spectrometry of electromagnetic energy spectroscopy in its many forms characterizes this class of analysis.

A nonphotometric analysis involves an analytical procedure or physical phenomenon other than generation or interaction with light. This may involve measurement of mass electrical properties thermal properties particle type radioactivity or other exploitable sample characteristics. For example mass spectrometry characterizes mass to charge ratio coulometry measures electrical current and some particle counters only record electrical pulses.

Spectroscopic interference involves the overlap of analyte signal bands by signal bands of nonanalyte materials in the sample.

Interference in the general sense for example in nonphotometric analysis involves any impairment in analyte signal strength quality or accuracy caused by nonanalyte materials in the sample.

A method and device are disclosed that allow a monitor to sample air in the breathing space of a subject quantitate an amount or concentration of ambient particulates such as dust as well as identify and or quantitate a particular component of the particulates.

The disclosed method can be performed with a device such as the TEOM series 3600 Personal Dust Monitor shown in wherein a personal dust monitor PDM is contained within a housing having a front face plate that includes a display screen which displays operational information and output from monitor . A cable port is also located beside the face plate for connecting monitor to an external power source such as may be available via mining machinery. A flexible depressible activation switch and scroll switch are also visible on face plate . A hose line provides a flexible tube that connects cap lamp with an air inlet . Hose is a conductive silicone rubber tube of 0.48 cm internal diameter and 152 cm length that is capable of conveying particulate laden air through it at 2.2 L min. A power line carries electrical energy to cap lamp from PDM . Lines are of sufficient length to comfortably extend between the housing to cap lamp when the PDM housing is worn at a belt level location on a user. Lines are typically closely bound together within a durable synthetic fabric sleeve not shown to make them more manageable and comfortable for the worker wearing the monitor.

The internal design of monitor is illustrated in which show that air inlet communicates with the remainder of an airflow pathway through an externally mounted Higgins Dewell HD type cyclone differential particulate separator that leads to a heated airflow conduit that allows heated air to flow into a removable TEOM microbalance that is described in greater detail below in connection with . As illustrated in the airflow pathway continues through conduit line that leads to an air sensor and relative humidity sensor block that communicates through line with a pulsation dampener . Lines provide a fluid circuit in which are included flow differential pressure sensor filter loading pressure sensor and ambient pressure sensor . Line merges with line at T junction to join pump line that communicates with a pump and outflow line that communicates with an external housing outlet port . An ambient temperature sensor is positioned adjacent outlet port .

As illustrated in a rechargeable cap lamp battery is positioned within PDM and provides direct current through power line to cap lamp . A rechargeable PDM battery is provided adjacent battery and it provides direct current for the operation of the PDM itself and for internal electronic circuitry including a programmable memory that is not shown in the drawings. In the disclosed embodiment the PDM is operated with a Windows based computer interface software.

In manual mode of operation PDM is activated and controlled with switches and . Electrical energy from battery activates and powers the components of PDM . Activated pump draws in ambient air as indicated at arrow from hose line through cyclone separator where dust is separated into coarse and respirable fractions. When operated at a flow rate of 2.2 L min the coarse dust remains in the dust pot of cyclone separator while a respirable fraction of particulates in the air continues into the analytical portion of the unit.

After this separation step the air moves through heated conduit where the air is heated to a constant temperature typically about 45 C. in an elliptical cross section metal tube designed for low particulate loss. Air is drawn through an air line into TEOM to deposit any ambient dust on a filter in the microbalance as discussed further in connection with where the weight of the collected dust is continuously determined by the inertial microbalance. Dust concentration is subsequently displayed on screen . As air continues through the fluid circuit of PDM the air temperature and relative humidity is sensed at sensor block pulsations are dampened at pulsation dampener and flow differential pressure is sensed at sensor before the air is expelled from the circuit at outlet port . The temperature of ambient air is sensed at near outlet port where air is expelled as indicated by arrow .

The PDM is further described in Patashnick et al. Tapered Element Microbalance Technology in DeSouza E. ed. Mine Ventilation Proceedings of the North American Ninth U.S. Mine Ventilation Symposium Kingston Ontario Canada Jun. 8 12 2002 as well as in Volkwein et al. Performance of a New Personal Respirable Dust Monitor for Mine Use DHHS NIOSH Pub. No. 2004 151 RI 9663 also available in PDF format on the internet from the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health .

Custom software may be used to program PDM through a personal computer. In particular embodiments a mass of total dust on the TEOM filter is determined by internal electronics and concentrations based on flow rate and time are calculated and displayed on display screen . Dust mass and concentration data and other operational parameters such as flow rate filter differential pressure tilt status shock status temperature relative humidity and TEOM frequency data are simultaneously recorded to internal memory for later analysis.

PDM may be operated in programmed or manual modes. The programmed mode may be initiated through a personal computer software interface to start measurements at a specific time and run throughout a specified duration of a shift. At the end of the program shift time the unit retains the final exposure data in the screen display until the memory of the monitor is downloaded to a personal computer. Several shifts of data may be retained in the PDM s internal 2 megabyte memory.

PDM contains a removable inertial microbalance which in the disclosed embodiment is a Tapered Element Oscillating Microbalance TEOM . TEOMs are known and their structure and function is described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 926 271 4 391 338 6 016 688 6 080 939 and 6 465 749. Although the structure of TEOMs is known an example is briefly described herein. As shown schematically in and illustrated in greater detail in a TEOM housing contains a sampling airflow inlet through which sampling air is drawn in from line with which TEOM communicates. Inlet communicates with a bell shaped inlet chamber having a filter assembly in a recessed microbalance oscillation chamber at the bottom of chamber . Filter assembly includes a filter mounted on a circular polypropylene base with a hollow axial stem which in turn is mounted on a free end of a tubular microbalance element . Tubular element may be tapered or nearly cylindrical but it is preferably fabricated with a thin wall thickness to increase sensitivity of the microbalance. Tubular element is mounted near its fixed end to a base through which the hollow open end of element extends. An electronic control circuit senses its vibration and through positive feedback adds sufficient energy to the system to overcome losses. For example electromagnetic drivers are mounted in opposition to one another on either side of element to which is fixed two small magnets that interact with drivers to maintain a desired oscillation frequency of element . Several electromagnetic drive arrangements are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 962 271.

The PDM filter assembly that is used in the Rupprecht Patashnick PDM is constructed from three sonically welded components. The largest component is circular polypropylene support base with its hollow axial stem which frictionally attaches to the exposed end of tubular element . The second component is small circular fibrous filter mat which mounts on base and the final component is a polypropylene ring used to seal the rim of the filter onto the base. The filter assembly may be mounted and removed from element using a special tool not shown . The mat is made from Teflon and fiberglass to provide a hydrophobic surface with inherently low hygroscopicity. Filter assembly is also shown in and and described below in relation to its handling with disclosed containers for it and also its own characteristics.

In operation PDM is activated so that a fixed resonant oscillation of microbalance element is achieved. Air is drawn through PDM by the operation of pump such that inlet air is drawn through inlet and chamber through filter assembly tubular element and out of the open fixed end of the tubular element as indicated by outlet air . The air then moves through line .

As particles drawn along the airflow pathway become entrapped on filter the mass being oscillated increases and the resonant frequency of oscillation changes. A precise electronic counter measures the frequency and calculates its relationship to changing mass. The mass of the entrapped particles is therefore determined by measuring changes in the resonant frequency of oscillation of member . Further details about this technique are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 391 338.

Although microbalance can determine a mass of particles trapped on the filter it can not determine the chemical identity of the deposited particles. Hence it would not be known if the particles were coal dust quartz or a combination thereof. Moreover it is not possible to determine from the output of the device whether quartz or any other specific trapped particulate is present in amounts that could be harmful to human health.

Spectroscopy or spectrometry is the science of recording the spectra and measuring the absorption or emission of different wavelengths of visible or nonvisible light for materials of interest. This can be done via a spectrometer which may contain slits prisms gratings collimating and object lenses mirrors interferometers light sources light detectors or a variety of other components appropriate for the method involved. Absorbance spectroscopy involves exposing a sample to a source of light and determining what portion of the light intensity emerges from the sample with the remainder being absorbed. Reflectance spectroscopy is a variation in which the reflected intensity of light is measured. Emission spectroscopy involves obtaining spectral information by exciting a sample to be analyzed to spectroemissive levels. Material samples may be simple or complex containing only one or many analytes of interest. Qualitative spectroscopy generally seeks to detect or identify a material in a sample. Quantitative spectroscopy is a spectrometric technique that builds on the qualitative identification and produces information about a quantity of an analyte present in a sample.

Many variations in spectrometric approach can be used in association with the methods disclosed in this specification the generalities of spectroscopy having some pertinence. A spectroanalytical instrument may measure only one spectral line band or frequency or it may simultaneously measure numerous bands or lines. In general it is desirable to concurrently measure multiple bands or lines or full spectra of some portion or range in the wavelength continuum expanding the amount of data gathered with each experiment or analysis. Associated background measurements or spectra are typically collected as reference measurements for the sample. It is desirable that spectra both for the sample and reference measurements avoid unnecessary complexity particularly the overlap of spectral characteristics from nonanalyte materials with those of the analyte. Correction procedures for such interferences may be imperfect and can still leave the analyte measurement accuracy impaired. It is therefore sometimes a useful practice to ash or digest samples by a thermal or chemical process to simplify their makeup and their resultant spectral properties. It also serves in recovering more analyte for the analysis than achieved by more limited sample dissolution leaching or suspension methods. Many different spectroanalytical techniques have been developed which the disclosed device and methods can employ. Some specific examples of such different types of spectrometry include 

Infrared Spectroscopy IR an analytical technique which measures at wavelengths or frequencies in the infrared spectral region near mid or far IR that are absorbed or reflected by a specimen characteristic of its molecular constitution. Infrared absorption bands identify organic molecular structure components or functional groups aromatic aliphatic ketone alcohol amine etc. and are also useful in identifying inorganic materials such as minerals. The frequency at which absorption occurs reflects the frequency at which bonds in these materials stretch and or bend.

Raman Spectroscopy a technique that is complimentary to IR in which a sample is exposed to intense monochromatic light. The wavelength and intensity of the resultant scattered light is measured. The low intensity scattered light occurs at wavelengths shifted from that of the incident light corresponding to the energies of molecular vibrations of materials in the sample.

Ultraviolet Visible Spectroscopy UV Vis an analytical technique which measures a range of wavelengths or frequencies in the ultraviolet and visible regions of the electromagnetic spectrum that are absorbed by a specimen which characterize the electronic energy levels of its molecular constituents. UV Vis absorption bands may be characteristic of certain molecular components such as aromatic or carbonyl groups. Minerals and metallic complexes may also have characteristic bands.

Mass Spectrometry MS a chemical analysis technique in which the substance to be analyzed is placed in a vacuum and reduced to low pressure. The resulting vapor is exposed for example to a beam of electrons which causes ionization to occur either of the molecules or their fragments. The ions thus produced are accelerated and then passed through a mass analyzer that separates the ions according to their mass. MS is not a photometric method. Instead it produces and records a mass spectrum of charged molecular fragments. Among the uses of the technique is the detection and measurement of metal ions and metal based compounds.

Atomic Absorption AA Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP and X Ray Fluorescence XRF Spectroscopies These three methods are very useful for analyzing metals. It is common for variations of these methods to require thermal or chemical destruction of an organic sample matrix for example destruction of an air filter on which particulate matter has been collected before analysis. These methods are frequently described in texts on instrumental analytical methods and spectroscopy.

X Ray Diffraction Spectroscopy XRD This is the crystallographic method of choice in working with minerals. Some variations of this method require thermal or chemical destruction of an organic sample matrix for example destruction of an air filter on which particulate matter has been collected before analysis. This method is frequently described in texts on instrumental analysis and mineralogy.

Fluorescence Spectroscopy an analytical technique which measures a range of wavelengths or frequencies of light a molecule emits in passing from a higher to lower energy state during a given time period such as the first millisecond after absorbing a photon of light. Fluorescence wavelengths and emission intensity reflect the redistribution of energy in the molecule after light absorption. Fluorescence excitation spectroscopy reflects the efficiency with which a molecule converts absorbed energy into fluorescent emission as a function of the wavelength of the absorbed photons.

Phosphorescence Spectroscopy an analytical technique which measures a range of wavelengths or frequencies of light a molecule emits in passing from a higher to lower energy state on a time scale beyond the first millisecond after absorbing a photon of light. Phosphorescence wavelengths and emission intensity also reflect the redistribution of energy in the molecule after light absorption. Phosphorescence excitation spectra reflect the efficiency with which a molecule converts absorbed energy into phosphorescent emission as a function of the wavelength of the absorbed photons.

Depending on the type of analytes involved the preferences of the analyst and the variations in sample preparation employed forms of spectrometry other than those discussed above might also be used with the disclosed monitor and methods. Nonspectrometric methods might also be employed in some cases such as coulometric determination or radioassay of an analyte subsequent to the ashing of a TEOM filter. Metals and radioactive elements would be example analytes for these approaches respectively. The absence of unashable or interfering materials in filter assembly components would be advantageous not only for spectrometric methods but for the full range of alternate analytical methods as well.

Quartz analysis of coal mine dust has been performed in the past by collecting samples on 37 mm diameter 5.0 m pore polyvinylchloride PVC membrane filters using standard cassettes designed for air sampling in mines. The Mine Safety and Health Administration employs its P 7 method of analysis which involves low temperature ashing of the PVC sample filters for example at 250 500 C. and redepositing the ash onto PVC Acrylic PVCA membrane filters by means of an isopropyl alcohol IPA suspension. The redeposited samples are then examined in a Fourier transform infrared FTIR spectrometer. Through appropriate calibration procedures the FTIR output is used to quantify the mass of quartz in the samples. The method includes a correction for kaolin clay a common mineral interferent that may be found in coal dust samples.

Existing TEOM and PDM filters are inherently different from PVC membranes in regard to structure composition and mass. For example the filter material used by Rupprecht Patashnick for its commercial 1400 series TEOM instrument is EMFAB TX40H120WW a product of Pallflex Products Corp. Putnam Conn. a division of Pall Gelman Sciences . This high efficiency filter contains three particularly rugged materials. The filter medium is a mat of random borosilicate glass fiber with a polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polymer binder cured at over 370 C. A layer of woven glass fabric is also incorporated as a backing for structural reinforcement. Although sample ashing is used as a means of eliminating spectral interferences from the organic portion of samples the existing PDM filter is substantially unashable. The resistance of the filter to thermal destruction is particularly problematic with a low temperature asher LTA which is the usual means of filter and organic dust destruction in quartz analysis of coal samples.

Additionally on filter analysis is problematic because it is difficult to cut the filter cleanly from the polypropylene components holding it. Also because the fibrous filter is very thick and opaque in comparison to membranes it transmits insufficient infrared light for successful on filter analysis and scatters much of the infrared light it does not absorb. The polypropylene components of the PDM filter are also a problem because their mass is much greater than that of a membrane filter. The masses of ring base pairs usually range from about 90 to 100 mg 105 115 mg including a filter mat . This is many times greater than the mass of the PVC filter itself which typically ranges about 12 15 mg. The large mass of nonfilter portions of the filter assembly would necessitate long ashing times and fillers and additives that are typically a portion of each polymer formulation would also frustrate accurate spectrometric analysis.

For example white colored polypropylene components are tinted with 0.5 percent titanium dioxide TiO pigment and also contain other inorganic materials such as polymer additives antioxidants and pH neutralizers. Because P 7 analysis has a declared limit of quantitation LOQ of 20 g quartz interference from these other higher mass inorganic materials is unacceptable.

The filter itself is typically of nonshedding fibrous construction that maintains a very high dust retention capacity that is capable of collecting several milligrams of mine dust on a 14 mm diameter filter. In addition to filtering efficiency the filter avoids excessive pressure drop. Filter assemblies that met these criteria were fabricated having compositions as close to 100 percent organic as possible. The new filters were then tested in actual quartz determinations to demonstrate that they were suitable as replacements for the existing filters.

A number of polypropylene components for PDM filters were ashed in a low temperature asher LTA to demonstrate that they could be ashed within a reasonable period of time and that the residue readily dispersed in IPA. These are the highest mass items that are incorporated into a PDM filter assembly and are therefore the most difficult to ash. Settings for the asher were those typical for ashing membrane filters. The samples were removed at 30 minute intervals and weighed to track mass loss with progressively longer ashing times.

Residue of the samples had a stable visual appearance after about 5.5 hours of ashing and there was no significant additional mass loss after 6.5 7 hours. In that approximately 7 hours were adequate to ash PDM samples it was demonstrated that PDM samples can be practically ashed within a single work day. Longer ashing times were used in later tests simply to completely guarantee sample destruction with the ashing devices available. Of course ashing times could be shortened by using more aggressive procedures but the settings used were consistent with maintaining the useful lifespan of the ashing device. In particular low temperature ashing that avoids modification or destruction of quartz as an analyte the ashing temperature is no more than about 500 C. for example no more than about 250 C.

White polypropylene components left much more visible ash than clear components. However both types of ash dispersed in IPA with only a very brief period in an ultrasonic bath. The ash was a very fine powder that left no polymer to act as a binder which demonstrated that the P 7 procedure was successfully applied to PDM filter assemblies.

In contrast a polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE filter could not be ashed under these conditions. PTFE and Reemay polyester were considered because of their presumed hydrophobicity which would minimize deposition of ambient moisture on the filter. A 25 mm diameter 1 2 m pore PTFE filter catalogue no. 12009 M 1132 Berghof America Concord Calif. was cut into smaller pieces and weighed. The pieces were subjected to extended times in an LTA and mass loss determined at different times. At the measured ashing rate approximately two continuous weeks of ashing would be needed for full filter destruction which is an impractical period of time for large scale analyses. Although PTFE is regarded as highly hydrophobic PTFE components were found to be unsuitable for this filter design because of the tendency to require highly extended ashing times. Of those polymers that have fluorine in their molecular structure only partially fluorinated polymers may be regarded as candidate materials. They would have hydrophobic properties similar to PTFE but by virtue of not being fully fluorinated may be ashed with less difficulty. 

Reemay polyester filter material BBA Group Nashville Tenn. was also eliminated from further study. This polyester product line had an undesirably low filtration efficiency although creation of a high efficiency filtration product is a current and ongoing project of the manufacturer . Polyester is not unique in its general properties and will absorb some amount of moisture. Polyester may be regarded as more hydrophobic than nylon but not as hydrophobic as polyethylene polypropylene and certainly not PTFE and related materials. Subtle variations in composition and treatment may also make a difference in many properties moisture resistance among them. The polyester product would reside on a relative scale of mechanical thermal and chemical properties not unique from other polymeric materials. Therefore it is the application of the criteria methods and principals of this research that enable the adoption of many polymers into useful analytically compatible filters reduce their use into practice rather than the unique properties of the polymers themselves.

Candidate filter materials listed in Table I were ashed to illustrate which filter materials satisfy the criteria previously discussed. Squares of the candidate filter materials were cut out about 12 13 mm on each side to approximate the area of the PDM filter. Because PP filter components had spectroscopic properties as unknown as the candidate filters samples of them were also included in these tests. PVC and PVCA membranes filters currently used in the P 7 method were included for comparison as reference materials. All samples were ashed in an LTA for a total of 16 hours then samples were dispersed in isopropyl alcohol IPA redeposited on to PVCA filters and subjected to Fourier transform infrared FTIR spectrometer examination using a Perkin Elmer Spectrum 2000 FTIR spectrometer with version 2.00 Spectrum software. Most samples left minimal residue after ashing and all dispersed readily in IPA following brief sonication. Minor deviations from the usual P 7 procedure were chosen for this particular set of analyses. Instead of 1 scan per sample at 8 cm wavenumber resolution with 1 cmdata point display 64 co added scans were performed at 4 cmresolution with 1 cmdata point display maintaining the visual detail of each IR spectrum but minimizing random noise levels.

Table I shows the series of outputs derived from P 7 analysis of materials from this spectroscopic analysis. Integrated absorbances around 917 and 800 cm used for quantifying kaolin and quartz are shown. The presumed false masses of these two minerals resulting from calculations with the integrated absorbances are also given. Finally an estimated LOQ is recorded based on a factor of 10 multiple of the average absolute value of false quartz mass for each material tested.

The upper rows of Table I record data for PVCA and PVC filters the comparison references. The data for these reference materials shows minimal false readings for both kaolin and quartz and LOQs of 4 6 g. While work with coal dust field samples generally allows an LOQ of 20 g a 5 g LOQ is achievable with ideal lab conditions and handling only pure quartz as the analyte so this estimate is generally in agreement with actual experience. None of the materials tested show large false readings for kaolin indicating that this particular factor would not be of much consequence in filter substitution. However white PP ring base pairs and a spun bound cover for electret filters caused substantial negative quartz readings. Both contain TiOwhich acted as a spectroscopic interferent.

Of the samples spectrometrically tested a HEPA version of a nylon fiber filter material manufactured by Pallflex provided excellent results. Its filtration efficiency and pressure drop characteristics were similar to the standard fiberglass filter used in existing PDM filter assembles. Fiberglass and nylon contributions to differential pressure were essentially the same at 13 14 mm Hg when normalized to hypothetical sample diameters of 14 mm the actual PDM filter size. PDMs are designed to handle pressure drops up to 125 mm Hg so both the fiberglass and nylon materials permit heavy dust samples which produce large differential pressures to be collected without quickly exceeding this limit.

When combined with clear PP components the HEPA nylon s resultant estimated LOQ would be an acceptably low 8 g quartz 5 g from the filter plus 3 g from the clear PP contribution . While other materials would be suitable HEPA nylon fiber was the best existing match for the full set of desirable properties.

This example illustrates two variations of the nylon fiber filter one with a cellulose support backing the other with a polyester backing having product designations N1840 and N1841 respectively .

Prototype PDM filter assemblies were fabricated using both cellulose and polyester backed nylon fiber mats. Particulate collection from air suspension was chosen as the means for introducing controlled masses of quartz onto these filters for trial analyses. A direct open face collection method was used in initial collections to avoid any complicating factors that collection through an actual PDM might introduce. Utilization of PDMs for quartz collection was reserved for a subsequent set of tests.

Two test runs were performed in a Marple chamber ELPRAM Systems Inc. Minneapolis Minn. using Minusil 5 quartz dust U.S. Silica Company Berkeley Springs W. Va. . The chamber generates a dust source using a model 3400 fluidized bed aerosol generator and a model 3012 charge neutralizer both from TSI Inc. St. Paul Minn. . Cellulose backed PDM filters and polyester backed PDM filters were arranged in alternating order in a circle collecting parallel samples. They were mounted on the chamber s rotating turntable to provide area averaging of the test atmosphere. All samples were collected with Escort Elf pumps Mine Safety Appliances Pittsburgh Pa. operating at 2.2 L min turned on and off as simultaneously as possible. An R P model 1400a TEOM was used to monitor each run and help collect masses of 500 g quartz per sample. Samples were collected over either one or two hour periods and dust feed rates into the chamber were manipulated to achieve the target collected masses in the specified time spans. Airborne Minusil 5 concentrations typically ranged from 24 mg m. Relative humidity was maintained in the range of 40 60 percent.

All samples were pointed downward and had small aluminum foil cowls above them during sampling Marple chamber airflow proceeded from top to bottom . This ensured that all dust mass on the filters was from air sampling and not gravity caused settling onto nonfilter surfaces. Weighed filters were placed directly in clean glass beakers ashed for at least 10 hours redeposited with IPA onto PVCA filters and subjected to spectrometric analysis. The spectrometric examination procedure of the P 7 analyses was performed twice on each ashed sample both utilizing a reference absorbance spectrum subtracted from the absorbance spectrum of each sample. One procedure variation retained the typical subtraction of a PVCA filter spectrum while a second variation employed subtraction of an ashed PDM filter that had been redeposited onto a PVCA filter. This comparison was used to reveal if fully matching spectral references to samples was of importance in these PDM filter analyses.

Tests were also performed to demonstrate that the Minusil 5 source of quartz dust produced an expectable P 7 mass determination 5.8 percent less than the corresponding gravimetric value. Most of this correction likely derives from the Minusil 5 being slightly lower in actual quartz content than SRM 1878A the reference quartz material used in P 7 analysis .

Table II summarizes the results of these open face tests. The table reports collected quartz masses based on gravimetric assessment and the expected P 7 results based on a 0.942 correction factor. Actual P 7 mass assessments are also reported for both variations of reference spectra subtracted as well as percent deviation of P 7 results from what was expected. It can be readily seen that there is minimal difference between actual and expected P 7 mass determinations accuracy averaging within about 1 percent. The 95 percent confidence interval for mean difference between actual and expected P 7 results is within 3 percent. The data also shows that the ashed PDM filters can be used as spectral references without making any practical difference in analytical accuracy.

In this example Minusil 5 was collected onto nylon fiber PDM filters while the filters were mounted in PDMs during sampling runs. Half the filters had cellulose support backings and the other half had polyester backings. The same Marple chamber and dust generating and monitoring apparatuses used for the initial air collection tests were used here as well. Each filter composition underwent 6 tests with each test employing 3 PDMs and 4 HD cyclones operated in parallel all drawing air at 2.2 L min. The cyclones collected samples on 37 mm diameter PVC filters which served as the comparison references for the PDM filters. PDM filters were ashed for at least 10 hours in an LTA while PVC samples were ashed for the 1.5 hour period known to be sufficient for membranes.

It was demonstrated that PDM and cyclone sampling systems produce substantially the same P 7 analytical assessments for quartz when run side by side. A correction factor was not required because both sets of samples had the same degree of crystallinity and were assessed by the same technique making a crystallinity based correction factor inapplicable. The only spectral reference used was a PVCA filter the ashed PDM filter had not show any benefit in the spectral subtraction process. Gravimetric assessments of collected mass between the two filter sets were also compared.

Tables III and IV summarize the spectrometric results of the PDM collection tests. These tables compare P 7 analysis results for PDM nylon filters and the PVC reference samples. Table III reports the P 7 quartz results for both PVC and cellulose backed PDM filters and the percent difference between them. Table IV does the same for polyester backed filters. In these and other tables in the present disclosure the subscript M denotes the mean of the measurements indicated . In general quartz analyses for the two PDM filter types agree with the reference sample analysis within 2 percent. These two tables show that the 95 percent confidence interval for mean difference between reference and PDM P 7 results is within 4 percent.

Tables V and VI report collected quartz masses based on gravimetric assessment of PVC filters and nylon PDM filters with the cellulose backing Table V and the polyester backing Table VI . The tables also present the PDM instrumentally assessed dust mass based on the instrument end of file EOF data which is the final instrumental mass reading for each test. These tables illustrate the PDM s instrumental accuracy with the new filters. The two tables show that the PDM and PVC filter gravimetric data agree within 3 percent. The 95 percent confidence interval for mean difference between PDM and PVC filter gravimetric results is within 4 percent. These figures were also recalculated excluding PDM unit which showed aberrant EOF results but the gravimetric comparison is little affected by this exclusion.

Tables V and VI also include a comparison of EOF readings to mean PVC gravimetric data. The EOF readings average about 10 percent higher but within 7 percent if an outlying unit is excluded from the data. The two tables also include comparisons of EOF data to PDM filter gravimetric assessments on a unit by unit basis. The EOF readings are again somewhat higher averaging within 12 percent but within 8 percent if the erratic unit is excluded. Appropriate confidence interval data is also recorded in each table.

The particle size distribution of airborne Minusil 5 was also determined using model SE298 Marple cascade impactors Thermo Electron Corp. Franklin Mass. . Most of the Minusil 5 particles were in the respirable range below 5 m in diameter.

These results demonstrate that the P 7 method is adaptable to use with the modified PDM filters and that the new filters are amenable to the intended analysis. Although longer ashing times are required for analysis of PDM filters than the PVC filters the increased time requirement is manageable and may be further accommodated by using more efficient RF ashers or laboratory planning for overnight ashing procedures.

When PDM and HD cyclone quartz samples are collected in parallel P 7 analysis yields very similar results for the two categories of samples as shown in Tables III and IV. Hence the two types of samplers are collecting quartz particulates in the same manner. Tables V and VI record that the gravimetric evaluations of PVC and PDM samples are within 3 percent of each other. Hence sampling quartz particulates with PDMs is not subject to an unexpected sample loss despite the long internal PDM sampling train. The results from parallel PDM and PVC sampling further demonstrate the suitability of ashable PDM filters for quartz analysis and the adaptability of the P 7 method for the new filter variations.

Although PDMs sample quartz particulates in an appropriate manner there was a bias in PDM readings. Each PDM has an individual proportionality constant called K used by its software to convert changes in TEOM frequency into collected dust mass measurements. If an alternative filter material has a different thickness from the EMFAB filter the resulting radius of TEOM vibration can be slightly different. Kcan be changed to maintain accurate mass calculation. However it was found that Kvalues for the polyester backed filters were within 1 percent of those for EMFAB filters. Therefore calibration issues do not explain observed instrument deviation from gravimetric measurements.

It is believed that humidity effects are responsible for the deviation. The instruments internal heating zones did not fully control the tendency of the nylon filters to pick up and release moisture. Because the PDMs do have an internal relative humidity sensor the instrument software is modified to apply a humidity correction based on empirically established filter response and the RH sensor reading a process that can occur in real time. Even without this software correction PDM measurement of collected particulate mass with the prototype filters does meet NIOSH accuracy criteria of being within 25 percent of reference measurements 95 percent of the time. However the application of a real time software RH based correction achieves substantially better accuracy. In some embodiments the ashable filter material is modified for reduced sensitivity to ambient humidity for example by using polyethylene or PP fiber having hydrophobic properties similar to the PTFE binder used in EMFAB filters.

The polyester backed filters were less sensitive to humidity effects than the filters that incorporated cellulose. Therefore noncellulose backed filters such as those with polyester backings are preferred in some embodiments.

In this example tests were conducted to determine the inherent stability of PDM TEOMs when utilizing different types of PDM filters. These tests examined TEOM stability apart from environmental influence or electronic drift of the PDM instrument. Four PDMs were used all in the same environment side by side on the same table. The four PDMs all drew clean air from a common tube manifold whose inlet was protected from dust with a large filter cartridge. Therefore no actual dust was collected during the tests. Four consecutive runs were conducted on the same day with all four PDMs operating synchronously during each run. Each test was 30 minutes long during which mass readings were recorded by each PDM at 15 second intervals.

Standard fiberglass filters polyester back nylon filters and cellulose back nylon filters were utilized for the experiment. The three filter compositions were distributed among the four PDMs so that one composition was placed in two PDMs and one filter of the other two compositions were each mounted in one PDM. The filter compositions mounted in the PDMs were changed with each progressive test. All filter specimens were tested only once as clean pristine samples. For the 16 tests conducted four simultaneous runs with four PDMs per run standard and cellulose back nylon filters were each tested five times and polyester back nylon filters were tested six times.

After data download from the PDMs graphs of mass reading versus time were examined for linear trends. A convenient linear portion of each data file was taken for further processing. The best fit linear equation for each data set was calculated and then this linear trend was subtracted from the source data that had produced it. This procedure served to remove any environmental or electronic influence on the data that occurred during the course of data collection. The residual data sets were consequently centered on average mass reading values of zero. The standard deviation of each modified data set was then calculated. The data scatter of each modified set as quantified by the standard deviation calculations reflected the stability of the TEOM filter coupled unit rather than other experimental influences.

Tables VII and VIII summarize the standard deviation determinations organizing them by filter composition PDM unit and test run. Generally speaking mean mass reading stability mean data standard deviation can vary by 0.06 0.08 g from test run to run or PDM unit to unit. Mean mass reading stability varied by only 0.03 g in comparing filter compositions. The prototype filters tested caused no clear additional TEOM instability over standard filters and no more than that already found in comparing different PDM units or separate runs of PDMs. Because the ranges for standard deviation values overlapped substantially for the data subsets examined there might be no real differences in TEOM stability at all caused by filter composition. If there ultimately are actual minor differences they appear to be changes in accuracy of only a few hundredths of a microgram. This is insignificant for all practical implementations of the PDM. visually portrays three typical data sets for the filter compositions tested. The degree of mass measurement data scatter and therefore the degree of TEOM stability is essentially the same for the three data sets. All filter compositions produced data with standard deviations of about 0.3 g. This suggests that no significant accuracy difference or mass measurement sensitivity difference exists between the filters as relates to stability of TEOM filter coupled assemblies.

The PDM determines the mass of dust collected on its filter based on the change in frequency that occurs for the tapered element of its microbalance. As the mass on the filter increases with ongoing dust collection airflow through it the frequency declines. The PDM does not immediately record mass readings when turned on. Instead it first undergoes a 30 minute warm up period. The PDM is programmed by the user to begin operating at a specific future point in time typically during the same or immediately following day and to operate for a specified time period. During the warm up period temperatures stabilize within the instrument as air flows through the filter. Because dust is collected on the PDM filter before the formal test begins instrument calculations are referenced to the specified beginning of the actual test sampling time T . Fis the TEOM frequency at Tand Mis the calculated collected dust mass at T which is set to zero. The frequency Fof the TEOM at a point in time t is referenced to Fat the beginning of the test. The change in frequency from Fis used to calculate Mthe collected dust mass at time t.

Mis calculated using the equation 1 1 where M the calculated collected dust mass on the filter at time t K a proportionality constant for the specific TEOM used F the TEOM frequency at time t F the TEOM frequency at T the formal start of the test after the warm up period Using another appropriate proportionality constant the collected dust mass may be expressed in desired mass units such as milligrams or micrograms.

The mass calculation equation is modified in accordance with a disclosed embodiment to correct for environmental factors such as humidity. Because underground mines are typically moist environments where water sprays are used to reduce airborne dust concentrations moisture bearing air and particulates are commonly collected. The measured weight of the filter changes in a substantially predictable fashion in response to increasing relative humidity RH as shown in . The change in mass is a function of both the RH and the composition of the filter. That relationship can be determined as shown by the graphs in .

In the present example the PDM programming is modified to introduce a correction factor calculated from readings received from an internal RH sensor. This correction enhances the accuracy of mass determinations from the PDM and permits greater flexibility in choice of filter materials. In particular this correction allows less hydrophobic materials to be used as filter material which in turn permits more optimal selection of filter materials that are suitable for destruction such as thermal destruction and spectrometric analysis without significant spectrometric interference. Other advantages of this technique are that the need to significantly increase RH controlling airflow temperature is avoided thereby reducing instrument power requirements also thereby reducing loss of volatile particulate matter from the collection filter to warmer air which would impair dust measurement accuracy.

The instrumental calculation of collected dust mass on the filter is performed using the equation 1 1 where H the humidity related correction at time t for the now humidity corrected calculated dust mass M. His calculated by the instrument in real time based on an empirical relationship where R the relative humidity at time t R the relative humidity at the formal start of the test T R R the change in relative humidity from Ttime t E is the empirical mathematical function applied to the quantity R R to determine H.

The relative humidity is determined by a PDM sensor such as that at sensor block but which may be placed in a number of locations inside or on the instrument. Because the humidity correction is applied to a filter in the TEOM portion of the PDM the sensor is preferably close to the TEOM and in the same airflow. Although the sensor may be placed in a variety of locations particular disclosed embodiments place the sensor in the path of airflow through the PDM near or at the location of the microbalance as illustrated in .

The PDM instrument measures and stores F the frequency at the start of the test comparing subsequent real time measurements F to make use of the difference. The instrument also measures and stores R comparing subsequent Rmeasurements to calculate the change in relative humidity. Both frequency and relative humidity measurements are referenced to the start of the test at T. Regardless of actual moisture mass on the filter fibers at T the instrument records Fand sets the initial filter plus moisture mass to zero. Subsequent time points in the test provide collected dust mass measurements calculated from changes in both TEOM frequency and relative humidity both making use of the differences from those at the test start. If relative humidity is greater at time t than T then E R R is positive and that quantity would be subtracted from the calculations for dust mass. If humidity is lower at time t than T then E R R would be negative and subtracting that quantity would result in a positive correction in the calculations for dust mass.

An empirical process is used to determine the function E by which the humidity related correction is calculated. Because filter material is generally manufactured in sheets or rolls product specifications for material density and filtration efficiency are typically average properties for large specimens or sheets. However for the PDM filter application a very small filter size is typically used an open face diameter of only 14.0 mm . To avoid filter to filter differences it is desirable for the parent material to be as uniform as possible. PDM filters are already subjected to quality control procedures to ensure collection efficiency and low airflow resistance but humidity response has not previously been determined. To perform this procedure a numerical sample size determined by common statistical methods is selected to find the average response of filter units to humidity change. The more uniform the manufactured filter material is the smaller the sample size can be.

Each filter test sample is mounted into a PDM and a sampling run initiated with an extra intake filter placed upstream of the test filter to prevent accumulation of dust from the air on the test filter. The humidity reaching the TEOM is then intentionally altered to determine the humidity effects on instrument calculated dust mass and the PDM calculated deviation from zero dust mass is recorded. For example the test PDM is placed in an environment such as a test chamber where the relative humidity oscillates periodically. Alternately a water bubbler or other source of humid air may be attached to the PDM inlet inducing minimal airflow resistance and differential pressure while drawing moisture into the airflow path within the PDM. The water bubbler is detached and reattached periodically to produce a step function for the instrument s internal humidity.

The use of a bubbler allows the humidity to be changed between two wide settings. The oscillating environment also allows active change over many less dramatic transient humidity levels. Either test is adequate for determining a humidity correction factor for the filter although both tests may be performed as mutually confirming assays empirical determinations . The changes in measured mass versus internal RH for each time point in the test are plotted. This approach involves no significant time lag between measured RH and filter response to RH.

Alternatively assays can be performed to take into account certain filter mass changes that occur in response to RH in a less than immediate manner. In such an assay collected data is examined to reveal an optimum relationship between RH and filter mass. Ris correlated to M where d is the time lag or delay period applied to time t. For particular filter materials in which there is a more complex relationship between RH over time and the filter mass a time integration of RH over the time span in question may be performed. Alternatively a time weighted average of RH is used. Filter materials usually have a direct correlation between RH and filter mass change with minimal time lag which is readily represented by a straight forward equation. The equation may be linear polynomial exponential or possibly some other mathematical function. When the plotted equation passes through the origin zero change in RH causes zero change in measured mass of the filter.

In a particular example the relationship between filter mass change and internal relative humidity was determined through an environmental oscillation approach. The results are shown in in which linear correlations pass through the origin. For polyester backed nylon filters a mass change of 2.721 micrograms occurred for each 1.0 percent change in RH that is H 2.721 R R when mass is expressed in micrograms. For cellulose backed nylon filters a mass change of 4.257 micrograms occurred for each 1.0 percent change in RH that is H 4.257 R R when mass is expressed in micrograms. Respectively the Coefficients of Determination are 0.707 and 0.757 for the two types of filter. The correlations predict the mass changes within a few micrograms fully suitable for occupational health monitoring purposes and many other applications of TEOM based instruments. Note that a common notation for Coefficient of Determination is R which should not be confused with our notations for relative humidity Rand R. 

In other embodiments stronger mass humidity correlations are achieved by incorporating more accurate sensors into the PDM or modifying their data recording method. For example a more stable RH sensor is employed or the time averaging period for the RH sensor is lengthened to further reduce data scatter. In other examples the time averaging period for the TEOM frequency calculations is lengthened or the RH sensor and TEOM are synchronized with each other to have the same time averaging and data recording periods.

For the PDM as it currently records data the algorithm for calculating collected dust mass is 1 for filters with a linear mass RH response relationship. C is a filter composition specific proportionality constant.

PDM is a programmable electromechanical instrument that is provided with its own software. Many instrument functions can be initiated by pressing buttons and viewing a small screen on PDM faceplate but accessing full instrument flexibility is usually achieved using a communication link with a personal computer for example through an attachable cable that affixes to electrical contacts between the metallic belt clips . The instrument software called WinPDM operates in a Microsoft Windows environment. It enables the user to program a PDM for sampling runs collect data in a specific manner and apply quality control procedures to instrument performance. The user can navigate between several visual screens each being a Graphical User Interface GUI to modify and enact the desired mode of instrument operation. The most relevant interfaces for controlling the instrument and describing the invention are discussed below.

An initial surface level GUI is the Operation Selection Screen. It informs the user about the connection status communication link between the PC and the PDM as well as the instrument operational status for instance whether it s scheduled or unscheduled to begin a sampling run . This interface also accesses other key GUIs that program a start time change operation features download sampling run records and calibrate the instrument airflow.

A deeper level GUI the Program Shift Screen enables the user to set a date and time for the next sampling run to automatically begin. It has multiple data entry fields to fully identify the sampling run that will occur. It also has a GUI element for the user to select a temperature range that will characterize the environment where the test will occur in that this environmental factor may vary from test to test.

Another deeper level GUI is the Configuration Screen. The PDM is capable of recording data for a wide variety of variables. Microbalance resonance frequency collected dust mass calculated airborne dust concentration airflow rate temperature relative humidity filter differential pressure and atmospheric pressure are among the many instrumental and environmental parameters for which data can be gathered. The selected parameters are recorded or logged into a PDM data file with user selected time frequencies that can vary from every few seconds to every few minutes or even longer periods. The logging procedure can be set to varying sensitivity in regard to changes in parameter readings. The instrument can record every minor change in measured parameter readings or record only major changes if desired. This GUI enables the user to extensively modify logging parameters or choose a template for logging parameters. A template is a small user selected or user generated file containing a full set of logging parameters which determines what kind of data the PDM will record and in what manner the recording will occur.

To enhance PDM flexibility in accommodating different types of filters this example provides a readily manipulated approach for adjusting the PDM when a filter is used that is suitable for post sampling spectrometric analysis of collected dust particles. Instead of the user changing relevant parameters by deliberately making each individual change in existing software interfaces a single specialized GUI element is provided to select the type of PDM filter being used. Selection of the filter type automatically institutes a series of parameter changes that avoid more time consuming manipulations through existing interfaces.

In a particular example the filter selection GUI element is a check box drop down menu or other visual user selectable data input device. It is capable of incorporating multiple possible filter selection options. Therefore the user can make one selection when the type of filter being used is for post sampling quartz analysis and another GUI selection when a standard Teflon fiberglass filter is employed. In other examples additional GUI element selections are incorporated for other special purpose filters. For instance the GUI may present a series of checkboxes one for each possible type of filter or a drop down menu revealing a list from which to make a filter selection. The filter dedicated GUI element may be placed in any of the three interfaces discussed above or provided in a separate dedicated interface. Providing the filter selection feature in a user accessible screen avoids the necessity of making multiple separate parameter changes. Once a filter selection is made by the user the selection is preferably visible to the user reviewing the interface screens rather than being a hidden software feature. The filter selection is recorded in the data file ultimately generated by the PDM which provides additional information for evaluation of the data collected in the file.

In the disclosed example the filter selection GUI element implements changes to instrument calculations and operations that optimize PDM instrument function for use with the selected type of filter. This may involve both firmware and data manipulation or recording functions. For example a change in filter composition alters the Kthe instrument uses where Kis the proportionality constant that relates TEOM instrument frequency changes to calculated dust mass on the PDM filter. A specific humidity based correction factor can be used for each different type of filter to improve accuracy in calculating collected dust mass. In some embodiments the temperature applied to the TEOM instrument is changed or the time averaging periods for evaluating TEOM frequency and outputs of other PDM sensors are varied. In the disclosed embodiment all the filter specific changes are associated with and implemented by changing the selection in a dedicated GUI element. This interface feature adds versatility while reducing complexity which is particularly advantageous for less trained users. The ability to quickly implement different instrument operational functions allows the instrument to be readily adaptable for using filters that are specifically suited for quartz analysis or other special applications that require filter composition switches while avoiding an instrument design that is operationally more complex or less accurate.

Some embodiments of the PDM provide a means for readily distinguishing and utilizing different types of filters or even automatically recognizing and utilizing the type of filter that is placed in the TEOM instrument or other microbalance device. Recognition of different types of filters is often difficult because many different filter types are superficially similar in appearance. For example fiberglass filters may have a white surface while nylon filters are beige with no other readily visible distinction. Nylon fiber filters that have a polyester backing appear substantially identical to nylon filters with a cellulose backing. Because the filters differ only in their hidden enclosed backings their external appearances are essentially identical.

This problem is addressed by manufacturing different types of PDM filters with deliberate detectable differences in appearance to render them more readily distinguishable. Different filter assembly components or filters made of different materials or with different backings may be fabricated to include fully organic pigment or colored dye. A particular dye color is associated with a particular type of filter. For example a nylon filter with a cellulose backing is mounted in polypropylene components one or both of which is dyed red or a nylon filter with a polyester backing is mounted in polypropylene components one or both of which is dyed blue. Alternately the filter disks themselves may be dyed apart from appearance modification of mounting components.

Particular examples of organic pigments that may be used for this purpose include carbon black lamp black acetylene black finely ground graphite and powdered charcoal. A variety of carbonaceous materials of sufficient purity or low cost might be used. Materials of this general type are part of rubber tire manufacture often included as reinforcing fillers but also leaving obvious color evidence of their presence. In the case of marking PDM filter components and identifying different types of filter assemblies it could be sufficient if traces of the pigment achieved merely a gray tint to the final component appearance. Carbonaceous materials are also known to have a degree of electrical conductivity giving them antistatic properties. This could make filter assemblies easier to gravimetrically assess in that static charge often interferes with weighing.

Innumerable organic dyes are commercially available for the coloration of fabrics foods and plastics including nylon . Specific color is quite unimportant and only a cosmetic consideration. The dye is selected to adequately mix with hydrophobic melted nylon survive the heat of mixture and injection molding and be as fully organic as possible ideally without metals in its composition. This last criterion helps minimize the residual material after ashing and prevents interferences when metals analysis of collected dust is a consideration. Only a trace of dye additive is needed in one or more PDM filter components to achieve a change in appearance and facilitate identification.

Alternatively a particular type of filter may be recognized by the PDM based on a characteristic mass of a particular type of filter such as a Teflon fiberglass filter compared to a nylon filter with a polyester backing . In some embodiments the PDM is programmed to automatically adopt a corresponding set of parameter changes appropriate for the type of filter identified. For example a particular Kis associated with a filter having a particular mass. When using this approach different filter types are used that have distinctive mass ranges that do not overlap.

For example in an extremely dusty environment a PDM filter may collect 6 mg of dust over the course of a sampling run. Therefore if two types of filter assemblies inherently differed in mass by 10 mg or more the PDM is readily able to identify the filter assemblies based on their mass as derived from microbalance vibration frequency. The mass difference between filter types would partly originate from differences in the filter pads they incorporated. However heavier or lighter polypropylene components could also be incorporated into the assemblies to enhance or reduce mass differentiation.

In one example type A filters have a clean mass range of 104 112 mg and a nonclean mass range of 104 118 mg which reflects the amount of dust collected on the filter in a particular environment . Type B filters have a clean mass range of 125 133 mg and a nonclean mass range of 125 139 mg which reflects the amount of dust collected on the filter in a particular environment . The mass ranges for the two types are designed not to overlap whether the filters are assessed in a clean or dust deposited condition. The heaviest mass of type A filters never reaches the lightest mass of type B filters 118 mg versus 125 mg in this case . A microbalance based instrument such as a TEOM instrument is able to distinguish between the two filter types based on mass alone. Similar mass range differences are used to distinguish other filters when more than two filter types are potentially used in the device. The precise mass ranges appropriate for filter types may of course be narrower or broader than the specific examples provided. Implementation of this automatic filter recognition feature can take into account the actual heaviest dust mass expected the margin of safety desired between filter type mass ranges and the acceptable filter mass and frequency ranges for the TEOM microbalance itself.

After a filter is mounted in a PDM the instrument is then programmed for a sampling run. The instrument is activated and starts a 30 minute warm up period before the programmed sampling time begins. At T the beginning of the formal sampling run the instrument determines F the microbalance frequency at T which serves as the reference frequency for the duration of the test. Before or simultaneous with the instrument determining F a software operation also identifies the filter type. Each filter type has a characteristic microbalance frequency range reflecting its characteristic mass range. Before or at T the filter identification initiates instrumental operational parameters appropriate for the filter type the instrument recognized. The data file generated by the instrument records the filter identification as one of the core informational elements for the sampling run. As an option the instrument may display the filter type on an external view screen or in various software screens so the filter identification is also confirmable by means other than the final data file.

Different types of filters may have different sensitivities to humidity which would affect their mass. However the assessment of filter mass can be optimized if interim mass calculations employ parameters best suited for the task of filter identification. Filter identification can occur during the warm up period or at T under a standardized set or one of several standardized sets of instrumental conditions and with some standardized set s of calculation parameters. The interim parameters need not be a final set of parameters for any type of filter. In some embodiments filter identification occurs late in the warm up phase to help assure that steady state conditions have been reached. The measurement of the initial filter mass or microbalance frequency is compared to an index or table of value ranges in instrument memory for various types of filters to identify the filter type that is present in the instrument. The mass calculations do not have to be fully accurate during the filter identification phase of instrument operation because it is adequate if they are only accurate enough to correctly identify the filter type.

In a particular embodiment identification of filter type initiates automatic software controlled adoption of correct instrument parameters without additional user input. An example of an instrument selected operational parameter is the filter specific K. Other operational parameters can include one or more of instituting a humidity correction changing a temperature setting applied to the microbalance adjusting the time period for averaging microbalance vibration measurements or other desired variations in instrument operation or data processing. In specific embodiments the number of changes adopted reflects the degree of difference in the types of filters employed. When significant changes to the instrument s internal environment are involved such as changes in internal temperature it is preferable that filter identification be performed earlier in the warm up period. This allows more time for the instrument to equilibrate to its adopted operational mode for the pending test run. The invention may be implemented during early middle or late warm up for whatever balance of interim and final stability are desired.

Alternate embodiments of the invention may make use of other filter characteristics to achieve filter recognition. Filter type identification by the instrument may be based on filter airflow differential pressure physical dimensions or other characteristics or combinations of filter assembly characteristics.

Another embodiment of the PDM makes more versatile use of its removable TEOM microbalance than now implemented. Currently ready access to the TEOM unit simply allows rapid switch of filters between sampling runs and facilitates cleaning the internal air spaces of the instrument. Each TEOM microbalance is mated with a larger instrument apparatus in the main housing with its operation requiring use of a programmed mathematical constant Kappropriate for the specific TEOM unit involved. This limited use of removable TEOMs is based on maintaining minimal differences in the properties of filters and their filter assemblies . In another embodiment TEOM design is modified to accommodate successful use of different filter types that would otherwise provide inaccurate data without changes in instrument design and operation.

A removable TEOM is modified to accommodate filter assemblies of different composition s and or properties. Such filter assemblies may have for example heavier or larger filters constructed of other than fiberglass material for analysis of one or more analytes. In this embodiment the TEOM tubular element may be modified to produce a different resonant frequency or may function best with different operational parameters. The removable TEOM has physical features that aid in identification and successful use of different filters. The removable TEOM s own external housing surface is modified to display color markings that match the colors of the filter types that may successfully be used with it. It may also have a specific identifier or encoding device that when mated with the larger instrument causes the TEOM type and therefore the filter type in use to be identified by the instrument.

The identifier may be a physical feature. This may be for example a stem of specific length recess of specific depth or specific arrangement of multiple pins or recesses. Alternately the encoding device may be an electrical resistor or other electrical component with specific properties or an electronic chip or memory storage device. The main instrument body mates with the TEOM unit assessing or interrogating its specific physical or electronic features. It thereby identifies the TEOM unit and correctly assumes the type of filter in use. It then begins automatically functioning with a new and correctly modified set of operational parameters appropriate for the TEOM unit and filter type it identified. If a memory storage device is utilized the device may transmit necessary operational settings to the instrument for the specific TEOM involved. The sampling data file generated by the instrument records the TEOM type and or filter identification as core informational elements for the sampling run. As an option the instrument may display the TEOM and filter types on an external view screen or in various software screens so the information is also confirmable by means other than the final data file.

The PDM may be provided in a kit which contains multiple removable TEOMs for a variety of filter types and purposes.

While the measurement of total dust exposure occurs immediately at the sampling site the analytical determination of quartz or other analyte content of the dust is usually performed at a different location where a spectrometer or other analytical instrument is located. For example analysis for the quartz contribution to the collected dust mass occurs at a remote laboratory. To maintain the accuracy of the analytical determination methods and devices are disclosed herein for transporting and which facilitate processing the filters without significant loss of particulate sample.

In one embodiment shown in the filter assembly is placed in a low mass enclosure such as a small bag or envelope structure having a self sealing flap . Adhesive material is present on one or both of enclosure and flap to enhance adherence of flap to enclosure . The adhesive material may be selectively covered by protective strip s to avoid premature sealing of enclosure until filter assembly is placed in it and the protective strip s removed. At the sampling site the filter assembly is removed as a unit from the PDM in which it was used placed into the shipping enclosure and sealed by adhering the self adhering flap to the body of enclosure . The enclosure is then transported to an analytical laboratory where both the enclosure and the PDM filter assembly it holds are subjected to thermal destruction and the resulting residual ash is subjected to spectrometric analysis.

A clean organic PDM filter assembly has a mass generally under 115 mg and even with collected coal dust the mass is generally no more than 120 mg. In preferred embodiments enclosure has a mass of no more than approximately one gram to help minimize additional ashing time that may be required to ash enclosure along with the filter. The enclosure is preferably made of a fully ashable material. A variety of polymers are viable low ash candidate materials as demonstrated by ashing tests discussed above. Alternatively specialty papers fabrics or even nitrocellulose membranes could be used. The material that is selected is fully ashable by readily available means and introduces no spectrometric interferents into the residual ash. The enclosure material for example a dust impermeable polymer forms a dust tight receptacle for the filter assembly.

In addition to the self adhesive enclosure illustrated in other embodiments of the enclosure include a plastic bag shown in in which a polymeric material is gathered at and closed with a wire like twistable tie that is subsequently removed after arrival of the enclosure at its destination and prior to the ashing procedure.

Another embodiment is shown in in which a relatively low volume plastic cup serves as the enclosure. Cup mates with adequate tolerance with a plastic lid as shown in to provide a substantially sealed enclosure. In this example a plastic projection protrudes upwardly from the rinsable bottom inner face of cup to provide a mounting on which axial hub of filter assembly is placed to secure filter assembly in cup during transport. Lid is secured over cup with sufficient tightness that the resulting enclosure substantially completely retains any dislodged dust along with the PDM filter assembly to avoid dust loss during shipping.

In this embodiment the enclosure has smooth rinsable interior surfaces that are readily cleaned with a rinsing surfactant or solvent such as isopropyl alcohol to avoid leaving dust residue in cup or on lid that would impair the accuracy of quantitative analysis of analyte on filter assembly . Although the plastic cup illustrated in would be suitable for this purpose many rinsable sealable shipping enclosures could be used such as a bottle jar canister box or more shallow structure. At the sampling site the filter is removed from the PDM in which it was used placed into the rinsable sealable shipping enclosure and transported to a remote analytical laboratory. After arrival at the analytical laboratory and removal of the filter assembly the interior of the enclosure is rinsed washed or swabbed to dislodge dust from the interior of the enclosure. The dust bearing rinsing fluid is then added back to the filter assembly. Once the rinsing fluid has dried the filter assembly and recovered dust are ashed together.

In this embodiment the enclosure need not be made of a low mass material because the enclosure is not ashed. Freed of such limitations the enclosure in this embodiment may be made as rigid and protective as desired as long as the enclosure material is resistant to damage from the rinsing or cleaning process and thereby facilitates a complete dust sample recovery. Isopropyl alcohol is currently a preferred surfactant for dust rinsing because it is a low surface tension solvent that is suitable for removing very fine dust from surfaces to which it clings overcoming electrostatic adhesion of the dust. Other solvents or solutions also have suitable surfactant properties. The enclosure may be made from glass plastic metal or any material suitably resistant to rinsing with dust removing surfactant.

The rinsable shipping enclosure can assume a variety of configurations. It may hold the PDM filter assembly loosely or it may have a means to fix the filter in a particular position such as an interior tube well spindle or perch either solid or hollow which suitably serves to secure the stem or other portion of the PDM filter assembly . For example it has a tube at its inner base into which the PDM filter assembly stem is inserted. It may have a well to loosely hold the filter stern along with a screw on or pop down lid that presses the PDM filter into a substantially fixed position within the enclosure. If the PDM filter assembly is held in a fastened position it may be advantageous if the interior of the enclosure is sufficiently large to permit a removal tool such as a fork to be inserted into the enclosure under the mounted filter assembly for its removal from the enclosure. The inner construction of the enclosure avoids excessive dimensional volume and inaccessible recesses which might make any dislodged dust more difficult to recover.

The enclosure fully retains the dislodged dust along with the PDM filter assembly thereby avoiding dust loss during shipping. The enclosure is also chemically compatible with the surfactant employed to remove the dust from the enclosure such that the enclosure does not significantly degrade with rinsing duration exposure to the solvent. It is also desirable that the enclosure not have consequential surface properties such as strong electrostatic charge or rough texture that would substantially interfere with rinsing away surface dust. Many variations in structure and composition are possible in meeting these criteria.

Yet another embodiment of a substantially rigid rinsable container or enclosure is shown in . In a relatively low volume plastic receptacle or base serves as the base for an enclosure. A plastic lid is adapted to cover the opening of the base . Base desirably mates with adequate tolerance with lid so as to provide a substantially sealed enclosure when fully closed as shown in . In this example a contoured surface comprises the center of the rinsable inner face of base to provide a region adapted to loosely receive a protruding axial hub extending from assembly base of filter assembly . Lid in the illustrated embodiment forms a frictional fit with an upstanding annular wall of base and desirably is secured over base with sufficient tightness that the resulting enclosure substantially completely retains any dislodged dust along with the PDM filter assembly to avoid dust loss during shipping.

In the illustrated embodiment a rinsable lid inner surface physically contacts filter assembly upon full closure with base and substantially retains dust from filter in the proximity of filter so that dust material is less likely to drift throughout the enclosure during shipping. Dislodged dust remains above filter and is substantially sealed in a small localized region at the center of lid inner surface . This facilitates dust sample rinsing and makes quantitative dust transfer for analysis more readily achieved. A special filter assembly mounting tool is not needed to remove filter assembly from receptacle base . This has the advantage of reducing dust sample loss particularly dust transfer onto the mounting tool from accidental filter scraping or jerking motions during sample handling when a mounting tool is employed.

The inner construction of the enclosure shown in provides enough room for easy sample transfer but avoids excessive dimensional volume and inaccessible recesses which might make any dislodged dust more difficult to recover. The enclosure also has smooth rinsable interior surfaces without strong electrostatic properties which are readily cleaned with a compatible rinsing surfactant or solvent such as isopropyl alcohol . This avoids leaving dust residue in base or on lid that would impair the accuracy of quantitative analysis of analyte on filter assembly . The enclosure may be made from plastic metal or any material suitably resistant to rinsing with dust removing surfactant. In this embodiment the enclosure need not be made of a low mass material because the enclosure is not ashed. Without mass limitations the enclosure may be made as tight and protective as desired sealing appropriately and adequately securing the filter assembly and its dust as long as the enclosure material is suitably resistant to the final rinsing process and thereby facilitates quantitative dust recovery.

For example screw threading features or circular groove locking features may be incorporated as sealing mechanisms for a mated base and lid to achieve dust sealing pressure onto an enclosed filter assembly and ensure dust retention during transport. Also a lid interior surface may be contoured to enhance a sealing fit with an enclosed filter assembly. Many variations in container structure and composition are possible in meeting functional criteria fully amenable to the sampling site shipping rinsing and sample analysis procedures described earlier for rigid rinsable sample containers.

Information obtained from the samples may have legal implications in liability law or occupational health law enforcement. In some embodiments the shipping enclosures are made tamper resistant. For example each enclosure is sealed with an indicator such as an adhesive seal that indicates whether the enclosure is opened between the time it is initially sealed and when it reaches a destination such as an analytical laboratory where spectrometry is to be performed . Particular embodiments of the tamper indicator are an adhesive spot flap or encircling thread or band that is part of or affixed to the enclosure. In other embodiments the shipping enclosures are placed in larger sealable receptacles. The PDM may be provided in a kit which contains rinsable or ashable shipping enclosures as well as larger receptacles for holding the shipping enclosures.

The method of determining a mass of dust and identifying one or more components of the dust can be used for detecting a wide variety of analytes using a variety of analytical methods. Although examples of the use of the method and device have been provided in the context of occupational exposure to coal dust these examples are not intended to limit their use to that type of application or even generally to occupational heath sampling implementations. In addition there are many general environment assessment applications that do not require a PDM. Any target material that would survive a preselected ashing or chemical digestion process could be considered as a candidate analyte. Examples of such target materials would include most minerals metals and some inorganic compounds.

For instance if dust is collected on a PDM filter and subsequently ashed the residue may be analyzed by infrared spectroscopy or X Ray Diffraction XRD . In the case of IR the residue may be redeposited on a suitable organic filter and examined in an IR spectrometer. Alternatively the residue may be mixed with potassium bromide KBr salt and pressed into a pellet then examined in an IR spectrometer. In the case of XRD the residue would be redeposited onto a silver membrane filter and the sample in that form examined in an XRD spectrometer. Raman spectroscopy can be used in many cases when IR is used and is often a complementary method to IR.

To perform an analysis for quartz current methods also determine kaolin clay. Kaolin is very common in coal mine dust samples. Its IR bands partly overlap with quartz. Therefore the analyst corrects the quartz determination for whatever influence originated with kaolin for example as part of the earlier described P 7 method. There are other forms of crystalline silica that also present health concerns. These crystalline silica polymorphs sane SiOelemental composition but different crystalline structures are called tridymite and cristobalite. They are not generally found in coal mines. Although quartz is the more abundant mineral the other two polymorphs are sometimes found in other noncoal types of mining operations. Tridymite and cristobalite can be determined by analytical procedures similar to quartz because they have their own spectroscopic and crystallographic properties.

Metals and their ores are examples of other candidate analytes. In regard to coal mines airborne dust may be analyzed for metal content. This has been done for research purposes to see if there is a correlation between metals in the dust and health effects. Some instances may involve the deliberate introduction of metals to aid a particular analytical goal. For example if a coal mine has diesel machinery it may be important to know which portion of the airborne dust comes from coal and which portion is diesel exhaust. Both are black dusts that are visually indistinguishable but there are several ways to determine the relative dust proportions. One method involves measuring the metal content of the collected dust. Diesel fuel can be deliberately spiked with a metal containing additive for example zinc oxide added to the fuel as a catalyst. Therefore if most of the zinc in a dust sample is known to originate from diesel particulates and most of the iron in a sample is known to come from pyrite in the coal then a means exists to differentiate the diesel and coal mass proportions based on these two metals. The diesel fuel could also be spiked with more novel catalysts such as those containing cerium or platinum at least in environments where the health risks presented by these metals could be minimized. Alternate metals in coal might also be suitable analytes.

A large number of metals and their ores are regarded as toxic which makes it advantageous to be able to analyze dust samples for their presence. Lead and chromium for example may be found not only in mining or industrial processing operations but also in the dust of nonindustrial settings. The ore minerals may be measured by methods already discussed above. Fluorescence and phosphorescence spectroscopy might also used although they are less commonly employed. After ashing or digestion the metallic elements may be measured by a variety of techniques which include both photometric and nonphotometric techniques. Mass spectrometry MS Atomic Absorption AA Inductively Coupled Plasma ICP coulometry X Ray Fluorescence XRF and Neutron Activation NA can all be used to measure metals if the samples are prepared in one form or another all commonly requiring ashing digestion. Certainly many minerals and inorganic compounds could also be determined by Ultraviolet Visible spectrometry UV Vis . Additionally metal residue after ashing could be reacted with a chelating or complexing agent. Intense color is sometimes an attribute of the resultant materials making them particularly suitable for UV Vis assessment.

Another example of how these techniques could be used relates to environmental science. Airborne dust samples may be collected in a specific town and minerals clays among others and trace metals analysis can reveal the sources of dust. Examples of sources for such dust samples include mineral dust from local geology windstorms in the Gobi desert or volcanic eruptions in the Pacific Northwest United States. In another example dust sampling is performed in urban homes. Detection of lead would reveal a health hazard and the TEOM time profile over the course of a day would detail when the dust exposure occurred.

Finally for another example in an occupational setting air samples are collected to assess employee exposure to powdered titanium dioxide TiO in a facility that bags and ships that material. Although TiOexposure is not of great health concern subsequent mineral and metals analysis can reveal the presence of an unexpected minor mineral such as one of the crystalline silica polymorphs or metal heavy metal oxides for example contaminant to the dust that is of greater health concern than the TiO.

Some metal containing complexes have paramagnetic properties. Electron Spin Resonance ESR spectroscopy or Electron Paramagnetic Resonance EPR spectroscopy are applicable for the detection and or determination of this class of compounds although these are somewhat less common methodologies.

Radioactive materials are also of interest for environmental sampling. The PDM filter assembly is sufficiently solid to possibly interfere with radioactivity counts. Its own structure would internally absorb some radiation from a sample some particles being more easily stopped than others. If a radioactive ore or metal was the analyte of interest polonium for example ashing the PDM filter could improve the accuracy of the radioassay. Therefore collecting radioactive airborne dust with a PDM ashing the filter and then performing a radioassay on the residue permits a superior result as compared to prior techniques. Radioactivity is measured by a variety of methods. For purposes of our discussion if X ray emission is being measured or light scintillation is part of the procedure the method may be regarded as photometric. If particle emission is being measured and electrical pulse or current is part of the procedure the method may be regarded as nonphotometric.

Examples of other analytical techniques that can be used with the disclosed methods are discussed in Principles of Instrumental Analysis 2Ed. D. A. Skoog and D. M. West 1980 and may also be found in other similar texts on analytical methods.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied it should be recognized that the illustrated embodiments are only preferred examples of the invention and should not be taken as a limitation on the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the following claims. We therefore claim as our invention all that comes within the scope and spirit of these claims.

