---

title: Secure communication network user mobility apparatus and methods
abstract: Secure communication network user mobility apparatus and methods are disclosed. A mobile user that is locally connected to a first communication network in which a service is provided, but is associated with an independently controlled second secure communication network, may be authenticated for access to the service by the second communication network. This allows seamless user mobility between networks in a partner extranet or other collection of trusted networks based on existing inter-network user mobility relationships. Access control, monitoring, and reporting, for example, and possibly other functions, may also be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346265&OS=08346265&RS=08346265
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08346265
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20060817
---
The present patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 814 963 entitled SECURE COMMUNICATION NETWORK USER MOBILITY APPARATUS AND METHODS and filed on Jun. 20 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present patent application is related to each of the following provisional patent applications which were filed on Jun. 20 2006 and are entirely incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 814 983 entitled NETWORK SERVICE PERFORMANCE MONITORING APPARATUS AND METHODS 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 815 134 entitled SECURE DOMAIN INFORMATION PROTECTION APPARATUS AND METHODS 

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 815 099 entitled COMMUNICATION NETWORK APPLICATION ACTIVITY MONITORING AND CONTROL .

The present patent application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 557 287 which was filed on Nov. 7 2006 claiming the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 814 983 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 467 387 which was filed on Aug. 25 2006 claiming the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 815 134 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 460 789 filed on Jul. 28 2006 claiming the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 815 099.

This invention relates generally to communications and in particular to providing for mobility of users between secure communication networks.

Administrators of private communication networks such as corporate enterprise networks do not currently have convenient options for providing temporary network access for mobile external users such as contractors or employees of partner enterprises that may at times locally connect to their networks. Network access for such mobile users normally requires manually creating local user identities in a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP directory or analogous user database for example and manually granting access to services. Service access may be granted at a policy server or directly at individual application servers.

When a mobile user is no longer on site the corresponding local user identity must be deactivated and service access for this identity must be closed. The entire life cycle from creation to deactivation for temporary identities is often restricted to be no more than one day.

The manual creation and maintenance of temporary digital identities as well as the associated service access activation and deactivation for mobile users of partner corporations tends to be a very inefficient and costly process. It also can open significant security holes in a corporate network if temporary identities are not deactivated and or service access rights are not removed when a mobile user is no longer on site.

User mobility might be particularly important to enable the use of services for which information is distributed through a communication network generally referred to as network services. Web services are an example of network services and represent the next generation of technology being used for automatically exchanging information between different applications over the public Internet and many private networks. Web services provide a framework for building web based distributed applications and can provide efficient and effective automated machine to machine communications.

From a technology point of view web services are network accessible functions that can be accessed using standard Internet protocols such as HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP extensible Markup Language XML Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP etc. over standard interfaces.

The real power of web services technology is in its simplicity. The core technology only addresses the common language and communication issues and does not directly address the onerous task of application integration. Web services can be viewed as a sophisticated machine to machine Remote Procedure Call RPC technology for interconnecting multiple heterogeneous untrusted systems. Web services take the best of many new technologies by utilizing XML technology for data conversion transparency and Internet standards such as HTTP and Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP for message transport.

One of the primary drivers behind the development and standardization of web services is the ability to facilitate seamless machine to machine application level communications by providing a loose coupling between disparate applications. Such a loose coupling of applications allows applications on different servers to interoperate without requiring a static inflexible interface between them. Applications using very different technologies can interoperate using standard web services protocols.

There are currently no available products that allow user mobility amongst the sites of a partner extranet or other collection of communication networks as noted above. Thus there remains a need for improved user mobility techniques.

According to an embodiment of the invention automatic authentication of on site employees of partner corporations without any manual provisioning of temporary identities is provided.

A method is provided in accordance with an aspect of the invention and includes receiving at a first secure communication network in which a network service is provided service access information associated with local access to the service by a mobile user the mobile user being associated with an independently controlled second secure communication network but locally accessing the service from within the first communication network and requesting the second communication network to authenticate the mobile user.

The may also include controlling access to the service by the mobile user based on a result of the authentication by the second communication network.

In some embodiments the method includes receiving from the second communication network an automatically generated digital identity to be used by the mobile user in the first communication network in which case further operations of storing the identity in a mobile user database at the first communication network and forwarding the identity to the mobile user may be performed.

A service access request may be included in the service access information. The method may then include determining whether the mobile user has been previously authenticated by the second communication network and requesting the second communication network to authenticate the mobile user where the mobile user has not been previously authenticated by the second communication network.

The operation of controlling access may involve granting access to the service in accordance with an access policy.

Receiving may involve receiving the service access information at a web services node of the first communication network.

Where a transformation is applied to service access information associated with external access to the service by the mobile user from the second communication network for transfer between the mobile user and an application server by which the service is provided the method may also include applying the transformation to the received service access information.

In some embodiments the method includes tracking activity of the mobile user in the first communication network and reporting the tracked activity to the second communication network.

Another aspect of the invention provides an apparatus that includes an interface operable to receive service access information associated with local access by a mobile user to a network service that is provided in a first secure communication network the mobile user being associated with an independently controlled second secure communication network but locally accessing the service from within the first communication network and an authentication module operatively coupled to the interface and operable to request the second communication network to authenticate the mobile user.

The apparatus may also include an access module operatively coupled to the authentication module and operable to control access to the service by the mobile user based on a result of the authentication by the second communication network.

Where the access module is further operable to track activity of the mobile user in the first communication network the apparatus may also include an interface operatively coupled to the access module for enabling the tracked activity to be reported to the second communication network.

In some embodiments the apparatus includes a memory operatively coupled to the access module for storing service access policies in which case the access module may be further operable to determine whether the memory stores a policy in accordance with which access to the service by the mobile user is to be controlled and where the memory stores a policy in accordance with which access to the service by the mobile user is to be controlled to control access to the service by the mobile user by granting or denying access to the service based on the policy stored in the memory.

The authentication module may be further operable to receive from the second communication network an automatically generated digital identity to be used by the mobile user in the first communication network.

The apparatus may also include a memory for storing the identity in a mobile user database and an interface enabling the identity to be forwarded to the mobile user.

Where the service access information includes a service access request the authentication module may be further operable to determine whether the mobile user has been previously authenticated by the second communication network and to request the second communication network to authenticate the mobile user where the mobile user has not been previously authenticated by the second communication network.

A web services node for managing web service application usage may include such an apparatus. The web services node may include a gateway that enables remote usage of the service from the second communication network and is configured to perform a transformation of information relating to remote usage of the service from the second communication network and to perform the transformation for information relating to local access to the service by the mobile user.

According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method that includes receiving from a first secure communication network in which a network service is provided a request for an independently controlled second secure communication network with which a mobile user is associated to authenticate the mobile user for local access to the service from within the first communication network authenticating the mobile user according to user identity records at the second communication network and providing to the first communication network an indication of a result of the authentication.

The method may also include creating at the second communication network a digital user identity to be used by the mobile user in the first communication network where the mobile user is successfully authenticated. In this case providing may involve providing the user identity to the first communication network.

An apparatus according to another aspect of the invention includes an interface for exchanging information between a first secure communication network and an independently controlled second secure communication network and an authentication module operatively coupled to the interface and operable to receive through the interface a request from the first communication network to authenticate a mobile user associated with the second communication network for local access from within the first communication network to a service provided in the first communication network to authenticate the mobile user according to user identity records at the second communication network and to provide an indication of a result of the authentication to the first communication network through the interface.

The authentication module may be further configured to create a digital user identity to be used by the mobile user in the first communication network where the mobile user is successfully authenticated and to provide an indication of a result of the authentication by providing the user identity to the first communication network.

According to yet another aspect of the invention a data structure stored on a machine readable medium includes an identifier of a mobile user by whom a service provided in a first secure communication network may be locally accessed from within the first communication network and an identifier of an independently controlled second secure communication network with which the mobile user is associated and by which the mobile user is to be authenticated for local access to the service.

The data structure may also include an access record providing an indication of local access to the service by the mobile user after the mobile user is authenticated by the second communication network.

Other aspects and features of embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description.

The enterprise system includes one or more application servers an application platform operatively coupled to the application server s a gateway operatively coupled to the application platform and to the communication network one or more user systems operatively coupled to the application platform and to the gateway an identity system operatively coupled to the application platform to the user system s and to the gateway and an application manager operatively coupled to the application platform and to the gateway. Other components or systems such as firewalls located on either side of the gateway to provide a DeMilitarized Zone DMZ may also be deployed. The enterprise system may have a similar structure.

In the application system an application platform is operatively coupled to the communication network and to one or more application servers . The remote user system installation includes an application proxy agent operatively coupled to one or more user systems .

Although many enterprise systems application systems remote user system installations and possibly other types of systems may be provided in a communication system only illustrative examples of certain types of systems have been shown in to avoid overly complicating the drawing. Internal details of the communication network such as border or access equipment and core switching routing components and the enterprise system have also been omitted from for similar reasons. The type structure and operation of the communication network may vary between deployments of embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention may also include enterprise systems application systems and or remote user system installations that include fewer further or different components with similar or different interconnections than shown.

It should therefore be appreciated that the communication system of as well as the contents of the other drawings are intended solely for illustrative purposes and that the present invention is in no way limited to the particular example embodiments explicitly shown in the drawings and described herein.

Those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains will be familiar with many different types of communication networks including overlay networks such as application layer networks and more traditional infrastructures. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of communication network. In one embodiment the communication network is the Internet or some other public network.

Many examples of access technologies through which the systems access the communication network will also be familiar to those skilled in the art and accordingly have not been separately shown in .

Considering first the enterprise system an application server supports applications that may provide functions illustratively services for use by at least the local user system s . Where multiple application servers are deployed each server supports a respective set of functions or services which may or may not overlap the services supported by other servers.

In some embodiments these functions are also made available for use by external user systems such as user systems in the enterprise system where owners or operators of the enterprise systems have an agreement for inter system access by their users and or the user system s at the remote user system installation .

References herein to use of applications are intended to convey the notion of any such function. Generally an application server executes a software application to provide these functions. A service such as a web service is an example of an application function that is exposed to user systems in the context of the present disclosure. Any references to applications functions and services should be interpreted accordingly.

An application server may include such components as one or more processors one or more memory devices and an interface for exchanging application transaction information such as service request messages and corresponding responses with user systems. Memory devices in an application server may be used to store operating system software application software etc. for use by the application server processor s . Enterprise systems such as are often implemented as a network in which case a network interface enables the application server s to communicate with the user system s and possibly other components of the enterprise system. In another possible implementation an application server includes separate interfaces for communicating with different enterprise system components.

A user system may similarly include one or more processors one or more memory devices and some sort of interface s for communicating with the application server s and possibly other components of the enterprise system . Operating system software client software for interacting with the application server s and or other types of information may be stored in user system memory devices.

Those skilled in the art will be familiar with many different types of systems that provide and or use network applications. Embodiments of the present invention relate primarily to monitoring the use of and restricting access to network applications as opposed to how these applications are actually supported and accordingly the application server s the user system s and their operation are described only briefly herein to the extent necessary to illustrate aspects of the invention.

The identity system represents another component that is commonly provided in enterprise systems such as corporate networks and will be familiar to those skilled in the art. Access to services or other functions supported by the application server s in many cases must be restricted to a particular set of users. The identity system which may authenticate users and or user systems through interaction with a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP directory or other type of user database for example supplies a digital identity that may be used for authorizing or denying access to network services.

In terms of structure the application platform includes application server interfaces that are compatible with the user system interfaces illustratively Application Programming Interfaces APIs of the application server s one or more interfaces compatible with the application server interface s of the user system s and components for processing messages or other information received and or transmitted through these interfaces. As described in further detail below external user systems may be able to access the application server s through the gateway in which case the user system interface s of the application platform may also enable the application platform to communicate with the gateway . However in some embodiments a separate gateway interface may be provided for this purpose.

The gateway would also include one or more internal interfaces compatible with interfaces of other components of the enterprise system one or more external interfaces for enabling communication signals to be transmitted and or received through the communication network and intermediate components for processing signals received and or transmitted through the interfaces.

The application manager represents a control or monitoring element that might not itself perform real time processing of information as it is transferred between the application server s and the local user system s or external user systems. The application manager may communicate with the application platform and the gateway through compatible interfaces to perform such functions as configuring the application platform and or the gateway illustratively by downloading access policies to the platform and or the gateway for enforcement accessing information for tracking use of applications by mobile users etc.

The internal components of the application platform the gateway and the application manager may be implemented in hardware software firmware or some combination thereof. An apparatus as described below with reference to provides an illustrative example of a subsystem that may be provided in the application platform or the gateway .

In a traditional deployment of a so called Service Oriented Architecture SOA for an enterprise network SOA components are individually deployed and integrated on each application server. Publishing a service for use on a network within the enterprise system for instance would require a service registry for discovery and management of service offerings. Although web service standards address the need to restrict service access to authorized users a web services policy server would be needed to store and provide this information. Enforcing these policies can also be a challenge in that software vendors may require substantial changes to applications and servers in order to adapt to enterprise systems.

All of this can represent a significant project for an enterprise and may well have a relatively long implementation cycle. In addition the skill set required to implement such a project is highly specialized which might make an SOA implementation not economically feasible.

When extending web services or other types of applications to partners between the enterprise systems for example even more challenges exist for an SOA infrastructure deployed on application servers. For instance applications deployed at partner sites might use diverse security mechanisms that cannot share user identity information freely requiring translation of security tokens for users. Placing the burden of security token translation or other security functions on each application server tends to be costly and inefficient.

Data privacy requirements are also very difficult or even impossible to enforce at each application server since application servers themselves might not be aware of whether a user system or more generally a consumer of its service is external to its enterprise system.

XML specific denial of service XDoS attacks and possibly other threats may be particularly problematic in application server based SOA implementations. Web services for example are open to XDoS attacks which cannot be effectively dealt with on application servers.

The migration of server based SOA to a web services model to achieve application interoperability via loosely coupling applications necessitates the need for additional messaging illustratively in the form of SOAP headers and XML messages as well as additional processing requirements for managing these messages. This additional overhead consumes network bandwidth and can result in significant new requirements for application server hardware.

An alternate model for deployment of an SOA infrastructure is to integrate the SOA components into enterprise network elements as shown in . The application platform the gateway and the application manager represent SOA components in the enterprise system .

Deploying the SOA infrastructure separately from the application server s may provide several benefits the SOA infrastructure is then application agnostic applications require minimal modification the SOA infrastructure is an end to end integrated solution application server processing overhead is minimized and network bandwidth can be optimized.

With an enterprise system network based SOA deployment any message translations required for applications to interoperate can be performed according to policies set within the enterprise system not by the applications themselves. This allows translations to be defined independently of applications removing the reliance on application vendor implementations.

The business logic required to adapt message format and content is thus provided by the enterprise not by the application minimizing application modification. Web services messages for example can be adapted within an enterprise network to achieve application interoperability. As new interoperability requirements arise perhaps due to merger acquisition or the need to integrate with a new partner no application modification is required. New policies for message translation can instead be defined to provide for the new interoperability.

An SOA infrastructure deployed as an integrated enterprise network solution can provide a single monitoring control and consolidated reporting point illustratively the application manager . This can be important to enable proper corporate governance continuous corporate improvement and the ability to demonstrate compliance with regulations concerning data privacy and network security for instance.

Application server processing requirements for application interoperability can be significantly reduced for two reasons application server offload and a reduced number of required translations. Translations can be done once at the application platform for example and then forwarded onto multiple destinations rather than each application performing its own translation.

The network bandwidth consumed by additional message traffic can be reduced by routing packets to the application server s based upon inspecting the message SOAP headers XML tags or other message content. Routing can be sensitive to application contexts rather than based on static IP addresses for example.

If application server functions are to be extended to partner enterprise systems an SOA infrastructure deployed as enterprise network infrastructure may provide many further advantages. Translation of security tokens can be done once at the demarcation point between the partners networks illustratively at the gateway for external accesses to the application server s providing a single enforcement point for security policy. Data privacy can also be enforced at the point where data leaves a security domain again at the gateway for example. This drives efficiencies and reduces costs. In addition denial of service attacks targeted at corporate web services can be defended at the gateway the enterprise network edge which is perhaps the most secure place to deal with this issue.

The application platform provides an SOA infrastructure for integrating applications that traditionally have run as stand alone applications and may enable such capabilities as controlling and monitoring all activity initiated by a validated user to thereby allow generation of a consolidated audit trail translation for message and document formats managing the life cycle for applications including the staged rollout of web services and rollback to previous versions in the event of unexpected behavior for instance and monitoring application service performance to ensure that applications services meet internal corporate requirements.

This listing of example functions of the application platform like other functional examples noted herein is by no means restrictive or exhaustive. Many functions may be implemented independently every embodiment need not necessarily provide all functions and other functions may also be or become apparent to those skilled in the art.

Benefits of the application platform may include reduced application integration cost through minimum change to existing applications as noted above ensuring that access to corporate applications complies with Government regulations a central monitoring and control point for employee access to web services and continuous corporate improvement through consolidated reporting.

The gateway effectively extends an intranet SOA provided by the enterprise system through the communication network into an extranet allowing seamless integration with customers and partners without compromising security or privacy. Functions of the gateway may include possibly among others any or all of extending applications to a partner extranet and branch locations providing seamless mobility for partner access to applications ensuring partner access to corporate applications complies with Government regulations and maintaining privacy of corporate identities without compromising traceability.

In providing mobile access to the application server s from any partner sites associated with the enterprise system the gateway may allow the secure identification of partner institutions and acceptance of identities between different security domains. Application message and data translations for user systems associated with external partner sites may also be provided by the gateway while ensuring that all data remains private as per corporate policy. A consolidated audit trail of all application access may be collected and provided to an external partner enterprise system by the gateway to demonstrate conformance with regulations for instance.

The application manager provides a central point for monitoring and control of the application platform the gateway and any other platforms and gateways not shown in the enterprise system . Globally consistent policies for all applications so as to ensure improved corporate governance and or compliance with Government regulations can also be established in some embodiments through the application manager and distributed to the application platform and to the gateway for enforcement. The central application manager may also provide for globally consistent application change management.

The enterprise system includes both application server s that support applications and one or more user system s that may use those applications. However it should be appreciated that application servers and user systems need not necessarily be co located. The application system for example includes one or more application servers but no local user systems. Although only an application platform is shown in the application system some implementations of an application system might also include a gateway. Whereas the application system as shown might be suitable for example for a remote data center that is associated with a primary data center as the enterprise system a stand alone or unaffiliated application system that hosts applications for use by external user systems might also include a gateway for handling authentication of the external users for instance.

The application platform in the application system may interact with the application manager of the enterprise system or more generally the application manager of its affiliated enterprise system. In the case of a stand alone application system a local application manager may be provided. In some implementations an external services controller interacts with SOA infrastructure components in multiple different domains. For example an external services controller that is operatively coupled to the communication network might configure the gateway and a gateway in the enterprise system to collect and exchange application performance statistics.

A user only deployment is shown in as the remote user system installation . The application proxy agent allows the user system s at a partner or branch location for example to use applications provided by remotely located application servers. In one embodiment the application proxy agent is a scaled down version of the gateway . The application proxy agent like the gateway might maintain privacy of corporate identities during authentication of the user system s with the enterprise system without compromising traceability and support secure communications through the communication network using tunnelling techniques for example but need not necessarily be able to authenticate external users since the remote user system installation does not host applications that could be used by external user systems.

In operation a user system that wishes to make use of an application provided by an application server is first authenticated by the identity system . Those skilled in the art will be familiar with many security schemes that may be used for this purpose such as username password authentication. Where remote access to an application server is supported user authentication may be handled by the gateway possibly through interactions with an external identity system. The gateway may also be involved in authentication when a user system that is associated with a partner enterprise system or site is locally connected to the enterprise system and wishes to access an application server .

When a user has been authenticated messages or other forms of information may be exchanged between a user system and the application server s . A user may be allowed to access multiple applications after a single successful authentication.

As noted above the creation and maintenance of temporary user identities for non employees that work on site and need to access local services can present a significant challenge for network and application administrators at many corporations. These temporary users are quite often employees of partner corporations such as contractors consultants auditors etc. and might require access to a restricted set of applications or services only while they are physically on site. Meeting these requirements is not only a large amount of work for administrators but may also open holes in their security model.

The term mobile user is used herein to describe a user attempting to access a secure network through a user system that is physically connected to the network illustratively the network of a corporation but is an employee of a business partner with which the corporation has a pre existing agreement to share network services. The user is mobile in that they are physically transplanted from their home site. It does not necessarily refer to the nature of their network connection within the partner corporation which could be fixed or wireless. With reference to supposing that the enterprise systems are partner sites that interact with each other in a partner extranet enabled by their respective gateways a mobile user associated with the enterprise system might locally connect to the enterprise system while performing consulting duties. In this case the user is a mobile user whose home site is the enterprise system but is physically on site and locally connected to the enterprise system .

The partners in this example have established a partner extranet connection in which a gateway is deployed in each enterprise system and configured to connect with each other. This partner extranet is used to allow the employees at each corporation to access services offered by the other subject to policies enforced at each gateway. Embodiments of the present invention further extend this service access model to mobile users of partner corporations by providing enterprise network based support illustratively at the gateways for seamless but secure user mobility.

As described in detail below an authentication scheme for locally connected mobile users might involve a mobile user issuing an authentication request to an access device or apparatus illustratively at the local gateway of the visited site with their employer identified as the domain of their identity for instance. The local gateway could then automatically forward the request to the appropriate partner gateway if available and monitor for a response. If the remote partner gateway indicates a positive authentication then the mobile user can be granted or denied access to one or more local services possibly based on access policies associated with any or all of the particular mobile user the associated partner corporation the time of day or multiple other criteria.

Mobile users can thus be granted access to the services that they need without requiring any manual action from the local network and application administrators. It should be appreciated however that operations or tasks other than access control could also or instead be dependent upon results of requested remote authentication.

As noted above with reference to the contents of the drawings are intended solely for the purposes of illustration. A device in which the apparatus is implemented may include additional components that have not been explicitly shown for example. These components might take various forms depending on the point at which or the device system in which the apparatus is implemented. In general other embodiments of an apparatus may include further fewer or different components than explicitly shown with similar or different interconnections.

The types of connections through which the components of are operatively coupled may to at least some extent be implementation dependent. Electronic devices often use various types of physical connectors and wired connections. In the case of cooperating software functions for example an operative coupling may be through variables registers or commonly accessed areas of a memory and thus include a logical coupling.

Hardware software firmware or combinations thereof may be used to implement components of the apparatus . Processing elements such as microprocessors microcontrollers Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs and other types of intelligent integrated circuits may be suitable for this purpose.

The apparatus may interact with other components of a local communication network and an external network such as a partner network through the interfaces . These interfaces may be of the same type or different types or even be the same interface where the same communication medium is used for information transfers with all other components. However in many implementations it is likely that the user system interface will differ from at least the application server interface s and that multiple application server interfaces of different types may be provided for different application servers. The partner network interface may be another different interface.

The user system interface enables the apparatus to exchange application access information such as authentication requests and service messages with user systems. Each application server interface similarly allows the apparatus to exchange application access information with a respective set of one or more application servers. This type of architecture for the apparatus might be appropriate for example when the apparatus is implemented at an application platform through which all application usage is handled or at a gateway through which usage of applications from partner user systems is handled since these components process all application access information for an enterprise system. However it should be appreciated that other implementations are also possible. A mobile user access apparatus might be involved in authenticating a mobile user and granting access to local services but need not necessarily be actively involved in transferring service traffic between application servers and user systems for example.

Through the partner network interface the apparatus may exchange information with a remote partner enterprise system. In the system of for instance inter partner exchanges between enterprise system gateways may involve transfer of information through the communication network and appropriate network interfaces at each gateway. According to embodiments of the invention gateways in partner enterprise systems exchange information at least during mobile user authentication.

The structure and operation of the interfaces will be dependent to at least some extent on the communication media and protocols used in information transfers. Those skilled in the art will be familiar with many types of interfaces through which application access information may be received and or transmitted by the apparatus . These interfaces may also vary depending on where in an enterprise system the apparatus is implemented.

Each of the databases may be provided in one or more memory devices. Solid state memory devices are common in electronic equipment and each database may be implemented using one or more memory devices of this type. However other types of memory devices including memory devices for use with movable or even removable storage media may also or instead be used to store the databases .

The partner domain database stores information associated with partner organizations. Partner information may include for example partner names gateway addresses and or an indication of whether a mobility agreement exists for each partner. The mobile user database stores mobile user identity information such as temporary user identities that are automatically established during an authentication process to allow authenticated mobile users to access local services. Policies such as service access restrictions information translation formatting requirements and or monitoring information to be stored as a record of a mobile user s activity on a local network are stored in the access policy database . Any or all of user specific policies application service specific policies partner specific policies and local enterprise wide policies may be established by local administrators to control what mobile users can do in the local network.

As noted above components of the apparatus may be implemented using hardware software and or firmware. These components are therefore described herein primarily in terms of their function. Based on the functional descriptions a person skilled in the art will be enabled to implement service monitoring techniques according to embodiments of the invention in any of various ways.

In operation the mobile user authentication module and the mobile user access module facilitate seamless user mobility as described in further detail below without manual provisioning of temporary identities or service access policies. An entire mobile user authentication and service access process may be automated such that it is seamless to network and application administrators and yet does not sacrifice security or control of managed resources.

Automatic authentication of a mobile user through an external network with which the mobile user is associated provides a secure method to validate mobile users with the identity servers in their own network or home site. Mobile users may be granted temporary access to services based on existing service interoperability agreements and policies between partners for example. Where service access is authorized through a gateway or other device that lies in the service path between an application server and a mobile user complete control and monitoring can also be provided. The validation of a mobile user in a local network can also be automatically deactivated according to policies set by local network administrators possibly with full traceability of mobile user access remaining in audit logs at a gateway for example.

Functions involved in the implementation of seamless user mobility may include mobile user authentication and in some embodiments access control. In the apparatus these functions may be supported by the mobile user authentication module and the mobile user access module . Other embodiments of the invention may provide a different division of these and possibly other functions between further fewer or different components.

Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to both . Suppose that the gateway and a corresponding gateway at the enterprise system are used to establish a partner extranet with service interoperability agreements and policies that are enforced at the gateways. A user that is normally based in the enterprise system but is on site at the enterprise system is a mobile user. Whereas home users of the enterprise system are provisioned in the local identity system a mobile user from the enterprise system even though locally connected to the enterprise system is not. The mobile user however would be known to the identity system of the enterprise system . The mobile user authentication module allows the mobile user to be authenticated and possibly granted access to services in the enterprise system based on the existing partner extranet without requiring any additional action on the part of administrators at either of the enterprise systems .

Through the user system interface the apparatus and in particular the mobile user authentication module receives from the mobile user a request for authentication. Such a request might be in the form of an explicit request for authentication including an indication of the partner with which the requesting mobile user is associated. In another possible embodiment an authentication request is implicit in service access information such as an access request or other attempt by a mobile user to access a local application server . An access controller at the application platform for example might detect that such an access request is associated with a mobile user and refer the access request or possibly an automatically generated mobile user authentication request to the mobile user authentication module . Processing of the request for access might then either be aborted or at least halted pending authentication of the mobile user.

This example of an implicit authentication request also illustrates the possibility that the mobile user authentication module could potentially receive an authentication request indirectly from another enterprise system component or device that redirects a mobile user authentication request access request or other access transaction. The user system interface thus enables the apparatus to receive some sort of information that initiates authentication of a mobile user but this information need not necessarily be received directly from a user system. Although it might be most practical to restrict mobile users to locally connecting to a predetermined access point in an enterprise network illustratively to the gateway so as to avoid redirection processing of mobile user transactions a redirection function at an enterprise system such as in the application platform might be desirable so as to provide flexibility as to where mobile users may locally connect to an enterprise system.

The mobile user authentication module accesses the partner domain database to determine whether there is an existing partner extranet relationship with the mobile user s home site. This determination may be made by searching the partner domain database based on a mobile user identifier and or partner identifier supplied in an authentication request for instance. If no partner mobility relationship exists then the mobile user is denied access to the local network. A record of the request might be stored in an audit trail or activity tracking database not shown for later review and or analysis by administrators.

Where there is an existing user mobility relationship with the mobile user s home site the mobile user authentication module may send an authentication request to the home site on behalf of the mobile user through the partner network interface . The mobile user authentication module or another component of a gateway for example might first confirm that a connection with the remote partner site or that site s gateway in some embodiments is available. Any of various error processing functions may be performed in the event that the connection is not available.

At the mobile user s home site an apparatus having a substantially similar structure to the apparatus could be provided to process remote authentications. Through its own partner network interface the partner site mobile user authentication module which might actually be or operate in conjunction with the partner site identity system receives a remote authentication request relating to the mobile user. Using its own user database and user mobility policies for example the partner site authentication module attempts to authenticate the mobile user.

Authentication might fail if authentication information provided by the mobile user does not match authentication information stored locally at the home site. An authentication failure might also be due for example to a timeout a connection fault or a user not being authorized for mobility by the home site administrator. A security attack or breach may be another cause for an authentication failure. An attempt by an attacker to locally access a service as a mobile user might be detected by the mobile user s home site if that mobile user is logged in at the home site when the remote authentication request is received for instance.

In the event of an authentication failure a home site authentication module or identity system might return a negative authentication reply to the requesting site or not reply at all if the mobile user authentication module that initiated remote authentication is adapted to declare an authentication failure in the absence of a reply from the home site within a predetermined period of time.

If authentication of the mobile user is successful the home site mobile user authentication module may create and locally store a mobile user identity. This mobile user identity and a positive authentication reply are returned to the requesting site at which the mobile user is connected. At the requesting site the mobile user authentication module checks to confirm that the mobile user was successfully authenticated by their home site and the mobile user identity is stored in the mobile user database and also forwarded to the mobile user through the user system interface .

In the apparatus shown in the mobile user authentication module receives the authentication reply and mobile user identity from the partner site through the interface and passes the identity to the mobile user access module for storage in the mobile user database . Where the mobile user authentication module is also operatively coupled to the mobile user database then it could store the identity to the database directly. As indicated by the broken line in the mobile user access module might also be operatively coupled to the partner network interface in which case it could receive the identity from the interface. Thus as noted above interconnections between components might vary from those shown in .

It should be appreciated that a positive authentication reply and a mobile identity need not necessarily be separate and distinct. A reply from a partner site that includes a mobile user identity could infer that the mobile user has been authenticated for example.

Embodiments of the invention also may or may not use dynamically generated mobile user identities. Such identities however may be useful where home site usernames and passwords are not to be shared with partner domains. Although a mobile user could provide a home site username and password to the mobile user authentication module for transfer back to the home site this scheme would effectively compromise the mobile user s username and password. While trusted partner sites that allow user mobility might not represent a significant security risk at least network administrators generally prefer not to distribute usernames passwords and other authentication information outside their networks.

The generation of mobile user identities for use by mobile users to gain access to resources when locally connected to a remote partner site avoids the dissemination of home site authentication information. In an initial authentication request or access transaction responsive to which home site authentication is initiated a mobile user might provide a personal name or other non confidential information on the basis of which the local mobile user authentication module or at least the home site identity system can identify the mobile user. In the event that additional information is required for authentication of the mobile user by the home site the mobile user authentication module could establish a secure tunnel or other secure connection between the mobile user system and the home site. In this case home site authentication information can be transferred between the mobile user system and the home site without being compromised by the mobile user authentication module or other components of a visited site.

A mobile user identity that is stored at the home site as noted above can be mapped to the mobile user for historical monitoring or tracking purposes for example but does not compromise the confidentiality of home site authentication information. Mobile user activity reports may be provided to the home site from a visited site by the mobile user access module as described below for instance for a mobile user identity and then associated with the correct mobile user by a user activity monitoring system at the home site.

In the above authentication example the mobile user was authenticated without requiring any manual actions on the part of network or application administrators at the visited site. The authentication was based on existing security models of the partner extranet.

After successful authentication the mobile user may be able to consume local services at the visited site. Authorization of access to services for the mobile user is handled in the apparatus by the mobile user access module .

The mobile user access module may receive from an authenticated mobile user a service access request that includes the mobile user identity that was previously obtained by the mobile user during authentication. Such a request may be received through the user system interface and need not be processed by the mobile user authentication module since authentication has already been completed in this example.

Information in the mobile user database is accessed by the mobile user access module illustratively by searching for the mobile user identity to validate the mobile user. The mobile user access module may also determine any access policies that are to be applied to the access request by identifying such policies in the access policy database . These policies may include global visited site policies and or any or all of mobile user mobile user home site and or service specific policies.

A network administrator might set a policy for a contracting company for example that allows mobile users from that company to access only required services or applications for example. Mobile users from the contracting company once authenticated are then automatically given access to the required services or applications. Thus access to services by a mobile user may be controlled by the mobile user access module in accordance with policies established by administrators of the local site at which those services reside. Policies might be established through an application manager at the visited site for example based on partner user mobility agreements.

A received request if compliant with applicable access policies is forwarded to the application server that supports the service through an application server interface . Service access information such as requests and responses involved in a service transaction destined to a mobile user from an application server may be handled in a substantially similar manner.

Using the above techniques authenticated mobile users can be granted access to the services that they need without requiring any manual action from network and application administrators. A partner extranet service access model can thereby be seamlessly extended to mobile users of a partner corporation.

Access policies stored in the access policy database may specify other access related restrictions or requirements. An access policy might specify how long a mobile user may access local services or how many different local services or applications may be accessed before that mobile user must be re authenticated with the home site.

Monitoring criteria could also or instead be specified in access policies. A policy might instruct the mobile user access module to record all access activity by a mobile user as service messages are transferred between the mobile user and application servers for example. Actual service messages or transformations such as hashes or digital signatures of services messages could be stored in a session database not shown for instance. Activity record reporting might also be specified in access policies. The mobile user access module might report activity records back to a home site in real time at periodic intervals or when a session is terminated either voluntarily by a user or forcibly by an administrator or the mobile user access module such as when a mobile user is required to re authenticate or exceeds access time or activity restrictions. Activity record reporting could be useful for tracking mobile user activity demonstrating regulatory compliance conducting audits etc.

Activity monitoring and reporting might be provided in the manner disclosed in the related United States Provisional Patent Application entitled COMMUNICATION NETWORK APPLICATION ACTIVITY MONITORING AND CONTROL referenced above.

An enterprise system may enable external user systems located at partner sites to access its services. In this case the application platform and or the gateway might perform any necessary data transformations for the external user systems. Since a mobile user is effectively a relocated external user the transformations that would have been performed during transfer of data to the mobile user s home site might still be needed. Therefore it may be useful in some embodiments to restrict mobile user access to access points in an enterprise system that are at an output side of an external transformation function or to redirect mobile user service related information through such a function. The mobile user access module could be configured to pass all service traffic to a transformation module or engine for example to ensure that service messages and other service related information will be in the proper form for a mobile user system.

To this end mobile user systems might be connectable within the enterprise system only through the gateway for example so that service related traffic can be processed through the correct transformation s required for a mobile user which would normally be applied by the gateway. Even though a mobile user might be connecting to a visited site through an internal interface of that site the mobile user could still be treated as though access were being provided through an external connection.

A determination as to whether external transformations are to be applied to service access information may be based for example on a user identity included in the service access information. Such a determination may also or instead be dependent on a physical interface through which the service access information is received. Mobile users might be restricted to accessing local services through certain interfaces of a gateway or application platform for instance in which case transformations are applied to service access information that is transferred through those interfaces.

Embodiments of the invention have been described above primarily with reference to the communication system of and the apparatus of . is a flow diagram of a method according to another embodiment of the invention.

The method illustrates operations involved in authenticating a mobile user and controlling access to local services by that mobile user.

At a request or other application access information associated with a mobile user illustratively an authentication request message is received. An authentication request message might be received from a mobile user system or from a component that is adapted to redirect mobile user authentication request messages for example as described above.

External authentication of the mobile user is requested from the home site of the mobile user at . An authentication response which may include a mobile user digital identity to be used by the mobile user in accessing local services is received from the home site at . In some embodiments this mobile user identity is a temporary identity.

If the external authentication succeeds then the mobile user is subsequently granted access to local services at in accordance with any applicable access policies. Otherwise access to local services by the mobile user is denied. An indication of an authentication failure could be stored in audit records and or returned to the mobile user. As described above an authentication failure at the home site might not be explicitly communicated to a requesting site at in all embodiments. The home site might simply not respond to an authentication request within a required response time when authentication does not succeed.

The method is illustrative of one embodiment of the invention. Other embodiments may involve performing fewer additional or different operations and or performing operations in a different order than shown.

For example authentication could involve transferring other information than an authentication request. A request for mobile user authentication could establish a secure tunnel between a mobile user system and the home site for instance with authentication information such as home site username and password then being provided to the home site by the mobile user system through the secure tunnel.

Once authentication of a mobile user has successfully completed at processing of service related information such as service messages that originate with or are destined for a mobile user may involve validating a mobile user identity. Although the mobile user might be required to re authenticate after a certain amount of time or after a certain number of service access operations or transactions have been performed as specified in access policies such that the method is repeated the mobile user need not necessarily be re authenticated for every service transaction.

Operations such as any or all of verifying partner mobility relationships checking partner connections transforming service related information and collecting and reporting mobile user activity could also be performed in some embodiments.

Although not explicitly shown in actual authentication of a mobile user takes place at that user s home network or site. Responsive to a received authentication request for instance the home network attempts to authenticate the mobile user and provides an indication of a result of the authentication to the requesting network.

Other information relating to the identified external network and or the identified mobile user is stored in the data structure at .

A data structure might include fewer further or different data fields than shown in depending on its purpose. In the partner domain database for example a data structure might include an external network identifier and other network information at such as an indication of a user mobility arrangement and or restrictions. A record in the mobile user database might include all three of the fields shown in so as to map a mobile user identity to its corresponding external network and other information such as a service usage record.

Embodiments of the invention provide a new technique for automatically authenticating on site employees of partner corporations i.e. mobile users without any manual provisioning of identities. Partner corporations might first establish a partner extranet connection illustratively by deploying respective gateways in their corporate networks and configuring these gateway devices to connect with each other. The partner extranet is used to allow the employees at each corporation to access services offered by the other subject to policies enforced at each gateway.

The techniques disclosed herein may leverage the fact that gateways can potentially provide partner authentication and validation of a mobile user s identity based on the interpretation of credentials such as a digital certificate to establish a secure connection between corporations and identity interoperability. Embodiments of the invention may be integrated with existing identity infrastructure such as LDAP servers to allow validation of users with the identity infrastructures of their employers. The service access model supplied by a partner extranet can thereby be extended to mobile users of a partner corporation.

Cost savings could be realized by corporate network operators by implementing embodiments of the invention to remove the insecure and labor intensive task of manual creation and maintenance of temporary user identities for mobile users. Depending on the particular situation at a corporation seamless mobility of users within their partner extranet has the ability to reduce information technology overhead streamline outsourcing operations and close existing security gaps.

Automation of the process of granting network and service access to temporary mobile users of partner corporations provides for user mobility that is seamless to network and application administrators and does not sacrifice security or control of their resources.

More generally embodiments of the invention can be used to provide the complete functionality of a full service SOA infrastructure as follows 

These and other functions have been disclosed herein and or in one or more of the above referenced related patent applications.

What has been described is merely illustrative of the application of principles of embodiments of the invention. Other arrangements and methods can be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

For example as noted above the present invention is in no way limited to the particular divisions of functions or method steps shown in the drawings and explicitly described above. It should also be appreciated that the techniques disclosed herein in are in no way limited to implementation in conjunction with a partner extranet. A controller monitor in an apparatus that is substantially similar to the apparatus of need not necessarily be a partner extranet controller monitor.

In addition although described primarily in the context of methods and systems other implementations of embodiments of the invention are also contemplated as data structures and or instructions stored on one or more machine readable media for example.

