---

title: Tetrazole derivatives and their use for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases
abstract: The present application relates to novel tetrazole derivatives, processes for their preparation, their use for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, especially for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08183271&OS=08183271&RS=08183271
owner: Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
number: 08183271
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061009
---
This application is a National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 based on International Application No. PCT EP2006 009727 filed Oct. 9 2006 which claims priority to German Patent Application Number 102005050375.6 filed Oct. 21 2005 the entire contents each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing applications and all documents cited therein and all documents cited or referenced therein and all documents cited or referenced herein including any U.S. or foreign patents or published patent applications International patent applications as well as any non patent literature references and any manufacturer s instructions are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to novel tetrazole derivatives processes for their preparation their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the heme group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron center of the heme group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a heme dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the heme group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of heme free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO heme adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin IX to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the heme containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but heme dependent stimulator YC 1 described above Mulsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the heme containing and the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a heme independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the heme containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leucotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

This object is achieved by the compounds described in the present invention. These compounds differ structurally in comparison with the compounds of the prior art by a tetrazole group in conjunction with a 1 4 diphenylbut 1 en 3 yl or 1 5 diphenylpent 1 en 3 yl core structure.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine or fluorine are preferred.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds of the invention of the formula I characterized in that either

Examples of inert solvents for process step II 1 III 1 or II 2 III 2 are ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or other solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide dimethylformamide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of said solvents. Toluene is preferably used.

A particularly suitable azide reagent for this process step is sodium azide in the presence of ammonium chloride or trimethylsilyl azide. The latter reaction can advantageously be carried out in the presence of a catalyst. Compounds suitable for this purpose are in particular di n butyltin oxide trimethylaluminum or zinc bromide. Trimethylsilyl azide in combination with di n butyltin oxide is preferably used.

The process step II 1 III 1 or II 2 III 2 is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 60 C. to 110 C. The reaction can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . It is generally carried out under atmospheric pressure.

Hydrolysis of the carboxylic esters in process step II 1 III 1 or II 2 III 2 takes place by conventional methods by treating the esters in inert solvents with acids or bases and with the latter converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. The ester cleavage in the case of tert butyl esters preferably takes place with acids.

Inert solvents suitable for hydrolysis of the carboxylic esters are water or the organic solvents usual for ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone acetonitrile dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preferably mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are employed. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane is used and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases for the ester hydrolysis are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Use is particularly preferably made of sodium or lithium hydroxide.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid are preferred in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The reactions can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out under atmospheric pressure.

The compounds of the formulae II 1 and II 2 can be prepared by the processes described in EP 0 341 551 A1 WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 and WO 01 19778 compare also reaction schemes 1 14 hereinafter the content relating thereto in these publications is hereby expressly included as part of the disclosure.

Separation of the compounds of the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds II 1 II 2 III 1 III 2 or of the phenolic precursors thereof depicted in schemes 9 and 11 14 which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the described process sequences. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by conventional methods known to the skilled person chromatographic methods or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

The preparation of the compounds of the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

 Abbreviations Ac acetyl ACN acetonitrile Boc O di tert butyl pyrocarbonate Bu butyl DME 1 2 dimethoxyethane DMF dimethylformamide DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide Et ethyl cat. catalyst Me methyl PCC pyridinium chlorochromate Ph phenyl Q leaving group e.g. halogen THF tetrahydrofuran TMS trimethylsilyl .

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemeias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistoric and ischemeic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequelae of cerebral infarctions such as stroke cerebral ischemeias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin All antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic route or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A o 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min o 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 21 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 0.2 min 100 A 2.9 min 30 A o 3.1 min 10 A 5.5 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Merck Chromolith SpeedROD RP 18e 100 mm 4.6 mm eluent A water 500 l of 50 formic acid l eluent B acetonitrile 500 l of 50 formic acid l gradient 0.0 min 10 B 7.0 min 95 B 9.0 min 95 B flow rate 0.0 min 1.0 ml min 7.0 min 2.0 ml min 9.0 min 2.0 ml min oven 35 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm. Method 2 HPLC 

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

A solution of 416.7 ml 1.83 mol 48 strength hydrobromic acid is mixed with 50 g 0.304 mol of 5 phenylpentan 1 ol at 0 C. and stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction solution is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and 200 ml of ethyl acetate are added. After extraction the organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 59.4 g 0.26 mol 86 of theory of a colorless liquid are obtained.

13.1 ml 13.1 mmol of 1M borane THF complex are added dropwise to a solution of 2 g 8.73 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzoic acid in 50 ml of dry THF at 10 C. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred for one hour. After the reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. 1.67 g 7.76 mmol 79 of theory of a colorless oil are obtained and are employed in the next stage without further purification.

A solution of 200 mg 0.93 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl phenyl methanol in 20 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 240.5 mg 1.12 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then mixed with about 2 g of silica gel and concentrated to dryness. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 183 mg 0.85 mmol 82 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

42.26 ml of titanium tetrachloride are added over the course of 10 min to a solution of 44.4 g 0.38 mol of dichloromethyl methyl ether in 230 ml of dichloromethane while cooling 4 5 C. and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour. Then 64.89 g 0.34 mol of 2 bromoethylbenzene dissolved in 24 ml of dichloromethane are metered into the reaction solution over the course of 50 min at 5 7 C. The reaction solution is then warmed slowly to room temperature and the mixture is stirred overnight. After reaction is complete 140 ml of water are very cautiously added dropwise over the course of 1 hour caution initially endothermic reaction through evolution of gas then exothermic reaction up to 30 C. cooling necessary . The reaction solution is then extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases are washed with 170 ml of water neutralized with 115 ml of sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane petroleum ether 1 2 1 1 . 29.3 g 0.14 mol 37 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 29.3 g 0.14 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzaldehyde in 112.4 ml of formic acid is mixed with 12.42 g 0.18 mol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride and heated under reflux for 2 hours. After slow cooling to room temperature 670 ml of water are added and the reaction mixture is slowly neutralized with 6 N sodium hydroxide solution while cooling. The mixture is then extracted three times with methyl tert butyl ether. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . 21.3 g 0.10 mol 74 of theory of a yellowish solid are obtained.

14.42 g 0.36 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 56.7 g 0.3 mol of diallyl malonate in 375 ml of dioxane and 75 ml of THF at 0 C. caution evolution of hydrogen . After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently 111.88 g 0.6 mol of methyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 375 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH is 

6.70 g 0.17 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 55.71 g 0.17 mol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate in 34 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 1 hour. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again 42.98 g 0.20 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile in 21 ml of DMF are added and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 3 kg of silica gel . 36 g 78 mmol 46 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 41.8 ml 0.3 mol of triethylamine and 8.6 ml 0.23 mol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 43.5 g 0.09 mol of diallyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate 1.67 g 0.01 mol of triphenylphosphine and 410 mg of palladium acetate in 505 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 50 1 . 25 g 74 mmol 82 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

26 ml 26 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 4.2 g 12.98 mmol of methyl 4 2 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate in 40 ml of THF at 15 C. and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 3 h. A further 13 ml 13 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex solution is then added dropwise and stirring is continued for a further 30 min at 15 C. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography mobile phase ethyl acetate petroleum ether 1 1 150 g silica gel . 3.1 g 90 purity 83 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.7 g 17.63 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 hydroxymethylbutyl benzoate in 250 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 4.56 g 21.15 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate

 PCC and stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 4.16 g 12.94 mmol 73 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

5.9 ml 9.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1820 mg 4.05 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 50 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 1085 mg 3.38 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate dissolved in 40 ml of THF are added slowly. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then after addition of some water concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 1150 mg 2.79 mmol 83 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2 g 13.49 mmol of 4 tert butyltoluene is mixed with 5.65 g 13.49 mmol of benzyltrimethylammonium tetrachloroiodate and stirred at 70 C. for 24 hours. After cooling the precipitate is filtered off with suction and the filtrate is concentrated. The resulting residue is purified over silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 1.53 g 8.4 mmol of the title compound are obtained.

1.75 g 9.85 mmol of N bromosuccinimide and 10.8 mg 0.006 mmol of 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropanenitrile are added to a solution of 2 g 10.95 mmol of 4 tert butyl 2 chloro 1 methylbenzene in 10 ml of tetrachloromethane and the mixtures is stirred under reflux for 4 hours. After cooling the mixture is concentrated. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 2.1 g 38 of theory of the title compound are obtained with a purity of 52 .

A solution of 450 mg 1.09 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 825.2 mg 1.64 mmol of 2 chloro 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 453.4 mg 3.28 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 518 mg 0.87 mmol 73.9 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 478 mg 0.81 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butyl 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate in 10 ml of toluene is mixed with 1116 mg 9.69 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 351 mg 1.21 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and then heated at 80 C. for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 2 . 144 mg 0.23 mmol 28 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 2 g 3.6 mmol of methyl E 4 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 enyl benzoate example 17A in 8 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 2.20 g 9.71 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 2.02 g 14.59 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1.9 g 3.30 mmol 97 purity 92 of theory of an oil are isolated.

A solution of 1000 mg 1.79 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate in 10 ml of toluene is mixed with 2851 mg 24.7 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 618 mg 2.47 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 2 . 648 mg 1.08 mmol 60 of theory of a colorless oil are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.49 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 149.8 mg 0.73 mmol of 2 chlorobenzyl bromide and 201 mg 1.46 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 94 mg 0.17 mmol 36 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 94 mg 0.18 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate in 2 ml of toluene is mixed with 303 mg 2.63 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 65.7 mg 0.26 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 95 mg 0.16 mmol 78.4 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 438 mg 1.02 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 20 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 382 mg 1.6 mmol of 2 trifluoromethylbenzyl bromide and 441.3 mg 3.19 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 181 mg 0.32 mmol 31.3 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 212 mg 0.26 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 3 ml of toluene is mixed with 450 mg 3.91 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 97.3 mg 0.39 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 120 mg 0.19 mmol 75 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 10 g 80.56 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 200 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 27.45 g 120.83 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene and 12.25 g 88.61 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 18.7 g 81 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 18.7 g 69.16 mmol of 2 5 phenylpentyloxy phenyl methanol in 120 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 22.55 g 65.71 mmol of triphenylphosphonium bromide and heated under reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness. 36.6 g 61.45 mmol 83 of theory of crystalline product are obtained and are reacted without further purification.

2.36 ml 3.78 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1.8 g 3.02 mmol of triphenyl 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy benzylphosphonium bromide in 30 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 810 mg 2.52 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate in 10 ml of THF are rapidly metered in and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 1 h. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for a further 3 h and then mixed with ammonium chloride solution and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1.27 g 2.28 mmol 90 of theory of the title compound are obtained in the form of a solid foam.

A solution of 160 mg 0.287 mmol of methyl 4 3E Z 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of toluene is mixed with 0.57 ml 4.3 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 107 mg 0.43 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane e dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 138 mg 0.23 mmol 73.6 of theory of a colorless oil are obtained.

19.79 g 494 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions caution evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 121.5 g 659 mmol of diallyl malonate in 1.5 liters of dioxane at 0 C. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently at 40 C. 50 g 0.329 mol of 4 chloromethylbenzonitrile dissolved in 500 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is then stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH is 

7.13 g 178.36 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 48.53 g 162.14 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl malonate in 180 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 55 g 194.6 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS No. 136333 97 6 in 195 ml of DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 . 33.4 g 72.37 mol 44 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 7.5 ml 53.6 mmol of triethylamine and 1.5 ml 40.6 mmol of formic acid in 170 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 7.5 g 16.25 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate 0.3 g 1.14 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 70 mg of palladium acetate in 170 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. 5.48 g 89 of theory 90 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

47.43 ml 47.73 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 8 g 23.71 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 5 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for a further 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is mixed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 10 . 5.8 g 98 purity 74 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 400 mg 1.24 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 hydroxybutyl benzoate in 7 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 320 mg 1.48 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 1 g of silica gel is added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 302 mg 90 purity 69 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

5.91 ml 9.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1820 mg 4.05 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 10 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 1085 mg 3.38 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzoate dissolved in 10 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours then some water is added and the mixture is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 1150 mg 2.79 mmol 83 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 300 mg 0.73 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 30 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 198.72 mg 0.87 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene and 151 mg 1.09 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 295 mg 0.53 mmol 72.6 of theory of an oil are obtained.

A solution of 295 mg 0.53 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 20 ml of toluene is mixed with 1.05 ml 7.93 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 198 mg 0.79 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 284 mg 0.47 mmol 89 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 10 g 49.26 mmol of 2 bromo 5 fluorobenzaldehyde in 200 ml of dry DMF is mixed with 7.27 g 54.18 mmol of 4 methoxystyrene 1.5 g 4.93 mmol of tri 2 tolylphosphine 330 mg 1.48 mmol of palladium II acetate and 10.3 ml 73.89 mmol of triethylamine under argon and stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled to room temperature and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in 100 ml of water and extracted three times with 50 ml of diethyl ether each time. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated to dryness and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 7.79 g 55 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

1.73 g 45.60 mmol of sodium borohydride are added in portions to a solution of 7.79 g 30.40 mmol of E 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl vinyl benzaldehyde in 500 ml of methanol at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. After reaction is complete the mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is taken up in water and dichloromethane. The aqueous phase is extracted twice more with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 6.8 g 85 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A mixture of 6.8 g 26.33 mmol of E 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl vinyl phenylmethanol and 0.5 g of 10 palladium on carbon in 50 ml of methanol and 250 ml of ethanol is hydrogenated under atmospheric pressure at room temperature for 1 hour. After reaction has stopped the mixture is filtered through kieselguhr and the filtrate is then concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 5.95 g 87 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.95 g 22.86 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenylmethanol in 130 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 7.45 g 21.71 mmol of triphenylphosphonium bromide and heated under reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. After filtration the solid is dried in a drying oven at 50 C. overnight. 11.5 g 77 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4.38 ml 7 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1.5 g 4.67 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl benzyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide at 0 C. Then at this temperature 3.280 g 5.6 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzoate are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 h then mixed with a little water and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 20 1 . 2.17 g 3.9 mmol 84 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 600 mg 1.1 mmol of methyl 4 4E Z 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenylpent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 30 ml of toluene is mixed with 2.18 ml 16.43 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 409 mg 1.64 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. 642 mg 1.01 mmol 99 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

7 g 30.56 mmol of ethyl 4 bromobenzoate are dissolved in 60 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 6.96 g 36.67 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 271 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 40.7 ml of a 2 M sodium carbonate solution in water are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelute washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 . 6.31 g 21.4 mmol 70 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

12.73 ml 12.73 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are added dropwise to a solution of 6.24 g 21.21 mmol of ethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate in 60 ml of dry THF at 0 C. After the reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 5.1 g 20.21 mmol 95 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.0 g 19.82 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 yl methanol in 40 ml of chloroform is mixed with 2.89 ml 39.65 mmol of thionyl chloride dissolved in 10 ml of chloroform and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is taken up ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium carbonate solution. The organic phase is subsequently separated off dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated after filtration. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . 5.26 g 19.43 mmol 98 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 300 mg 0.73 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 30 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 236.8 mg 0.87 mmol of 4 chloromethyl 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl and 151 mg 1.09 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 331 mg 0.51 mmol 70 of theory of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 295 mg 0.53 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 20 ml of toluene is mixed with 1.33 ml 9.99 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 249 mg 1 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 387 mg 0.56 mmol 64 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 1.4 g 3.13 mmol 92 pure of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate in 7 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1.42 g 6.26 mmol 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1.30 g 9.39 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and concentrated to dryness. The residue is directly purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 then 1 5 . 1.85 g 3.32 mmol 93 purity 98 of theory of an oil are isolated.

A solution of 180 mg 0.32 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 cyanobenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of toluene is mixed with 557.3 mg 4.84 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 120.51 mg 0.48 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexan ethyl acetate 2 1 1 2 . 88 mg 0.14 mmol 43 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

21.71 g 542.9 mmol 60 pure of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 100 g 542.9 mmol of diallyl malonate in 700 ml of dry dioxane at 0 C. After gas evolution ceases the reaction mixture is warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 1 hour. Then 43.98 g 271.5 mmol of 5 bromovaleronitrile in 350 ml of dry dioxane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours. After the reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature mixed with 400 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. After phase separation the aqueous phase is extracted three further times with 250 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After the organic phases have been combined they are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and then the solvent is stripped off in vacuo. Excess diallyl malonate is subsequently removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The resulting distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 105 g 233 mmol approx. 60 purity 43 of theory of the title compound are obtained which compound is reacted without further purification in the subsequent stage. A small amount is purified by preparative HPLC for analytical characterization.

5.62 g 140 mmol 60 pure of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 48.64 g 127.73 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobutyl malonate in 160 ml of dry DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 90 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 45.72 g 153.3 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate in 80 ml of dry DMF stirred at this temperature for 45 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is mixed with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. After phase separation the aqueous phase is extracted three more times with 200 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After combining the combined organic phases the mixture is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and then the solvent is stripped off in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 100 ethyl acetate . 18.53 g 43.3 mmol 34 of theory of a colorless liquid are obtained.

A solution of 7.45 ml 53.42 mmol of triethylamine and 1.53 ml 40.47 mmol of formic acid in 67 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 6.92 g 16.19 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobutyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate 594 mg 2.26 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 145 mg 0.64 mmol of palladium acetate in 67 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three more times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate with 1 formic acid 2 1 1 3 . 2.1 g 43 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

33 ml 33 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 5 g 16.48 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 7 cyanoheptyl benzoate in 62 ml of THF at 15 C. and the solution is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. Then a further 16 ml 16 mmol of 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise at 15 C. and stirring is continued for 45 minutes. The reaction mixture is then warmed to 0 C. and stirred at this temperature for 1 hour. After reaction is complete 100 ml of saturated bicarbonate solution are added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and the aqueous phase is extracted again with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 3 100 ethyl acetate . 2.4 g 93 purity 47 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2.23 g 7.71 mmol of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 hydroxymethylheptyl benzoate in 100 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 1.99 g 9.26 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. After conversion is complete the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 1.50 g 9.09 mmol 68 of theory of an oil are obtained.

9.07 ml 14.52 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a suspension of 3.26 g 7.26 mmol of 2 hydroxyphenyltriphenylphosphonium bromide in 40 ml of dry THF at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred for 5 minutes. Then at this temperature a solution of 1.49 g 5.19 mmol of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 formylheptyl benzoate in 10 ml of dry THF is slowly added dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 10 minutes. The cooling is then removed and the reaction solution is stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and then mixed with silica gel and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified directly by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 2 1 5 . 1.71 g 75 purity 3.40 mmol 65 of theory of an oil are obtained.

A solution of 1.70 g 3.38 mmol 75 pure of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 2 2 hydroxyphenyl vinyl heptylbenzoate in 20 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1.53 g 7.76 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1.4 g 10.13 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is taken up on silica gel and purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1700 mg 3.12 mmol 96 purity 92 of theory of an oil are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.38 mmol of methyl 4 3 E 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylvinyl 7 cyanoheptyl benzoate in 3 ml of toluene is mixed with 660 mg 5.73 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 142.6 mg 0.57 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated to 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 103 mg 0.18 mmol 46 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

16.29 g 407.19 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 100 g 542.92 mmol of diallyl malonate in 900 ml of dry dioxane at 5 C. After gas evolution ceases the reaction mixture is warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 30 min. Then 56.76 g 271.46 mmol of ethyl 5 bromovalerate in 100 ml of dry dioxane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours. After the reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and added to about 400 ml of ice water. After neutralization with 1 N hydrochloric acid the organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is extracted three times with 250 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After the organic phases have been combined they are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. Subsequently excess diallyl malonate is removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The resulting distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 73.92 g 236.65 mmol 44 of theory of a colorless liquid are obtained.

6.37 g 159.27 mmol 60 pure of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 45.23 g 144.79 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonylheptanedioate in 250 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and after addition of 36.50 g 173.75 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile in 250 ml DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 17.85 g 40.43 mol 28 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 18.6 ml 133.4 mmol of triethylamine and 3.81 ml 101.1 mmol of formic acid in 175 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 21 g 40.43 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl heptanedioate 742 mg 2.83 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 181 mg 0.81 mmol of palladium acetate in 175 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three more times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 8.6 g 64 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

54.19 ml 54.19 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 8.6 g 27.1 mmol of 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl heptanedioic acid 7 ethyl ester in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 10 1 4 . 5.1 g 97 60 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 4 g 13.18 mmol of ethyl 8 4 cyanophenyl 6 hydroxymethyloctanoate in 100 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 3.41 g 15.82 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 2.74 g 9.09 mmol 69 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

5.91 ml 9.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1820 mg 4.05 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 15 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature a solution of 1085 mg 3.38 mmol of ethyl 8 4 cyanophenyl 6 formyloctanoate in 15 ml of THF is slowly metered in. After the reaction solution has been warmed to room temperature it is stirred for 12 hours and after addition of some water concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 1150 mg 2.79 mmol 83 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2300 mg 5.87 mmol of ethyl E 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 8 2 hydroxyphenyl oct 7 enoate in 160 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1600 mg 7.05 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1220 mg 8.81 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and the organic phase concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography an silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 2800 mg 5.21 mmol 88 of theory of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 1 g 1.86 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl oct 7 enoate in 70 ml of toluene is mixed with 3.7 ml 27.9 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 694 mg 2.79 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 622 mg 1.1 mmol 34 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 127 mg 0.32 mmol of ethyl 7E 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 8 2 hydroxyphenyl oct 7 enoate in 10 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 88.42 mg 0.39 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene and 67.25 mg 0.49 mmol of potassium carbonate and stirred under reflux for 12 hours. After cooling the mixture is concentrated. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and extracted with water. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 128 mg 0.24 mmol 73.4 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 128 mg 0.24 mmol of ethyl 7E 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 8 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenyloct 7 enoate in 10 ml of toluene is mixed with 0.47 ml 3.57 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 88.9 mg 0.36 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 62 mg 0.11 mmol 44.8 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

1.69 g 70.43 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 20 g 64.03 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonylheptanedioate in 140 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction mixture is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 16.32 g 83.24 mmol of 4 bromomethylbenzonitrile in 140 ml of DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography an silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 20.08 g 46.97 mmol 73 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 24.21 ml 173.69 mmol of triethylamine and 4.96 ml 131.58 mmol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 22.5 g 52.63 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl heptanedioate 970 mg 3.68 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 240 mg 1.05 mmol of palladium acetate in 500 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. 17.5 g 87 of theory 80 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

34.42 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 34.42 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 6.64 g 22.94 mmol of 2 4 cyanobenzyl heptanedioic acid 7 ethyl ester in 260 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. After the reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 8 1 2 . 5.84 g 88 of theory 20.19 mmol of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 4.6 g 15.90 mmol of ethyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl 7 hydroxyheptanoate in 250 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 4.11 g 19.08 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is cautiously concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 4.09 g 14.23 mmol 89 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

15.98 ml 39.95 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 6.411 g 14.27 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 300 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 4.1 g 14.27 mmol of ethyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl 7 oxoheptanoate are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 1.75 g 4.64 mmol 32 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.75 g 4.64 mmol of ethyl E 6 4 cyanobenzyl 8 2 hydroxyphenyl oct 7 enoate in 50 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1579 mg 6.95 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 961 mg 6.95 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 8 1 4 1 . 2.24 g 4.28 mmol 92 of theory of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 1000 mg 1.91 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl oct 7 enoate in 70 ml of toluene is mixed with 3.8 ml 28.6 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 713 mg 2.86 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 800 mg 1.4 mmol 74 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

2.13 ml 3.42 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1695 mg 2.85 mmol of triphenyl 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy benzylphosphonium bromide in 15 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 818 mg 2.85 mmol of ethyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl 7 oxoheptanoate in 15 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then mixed with some water and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 20 1 . 730 mg 1.4 mmol 48 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

A solution of 100 mg 0.19 mmol of ethyl 7E Z 6 4 cyanobenzyl 8 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenyloct 7 enoate in 10 ml of toluene is mixed with 0.05 ml 0.38 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 4.75 mg 0.02 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and heated at 80 C. for 12 hours. After cooling to room temperature the mixture is washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 19 mg 0.03 mmol 16.9 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

A solution of 500 mg 0.79 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butyl 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 3 ml of THF and 1.5 ml of water is mixed with 75.4 mg 3.15 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 . 372 mg 0.6 mmol 76 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

350 mg 0.56 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butyl 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 156 mg and 132 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 2 and 3 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 27 C.

A solution of 150 mg 0.25 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 1.5 ml of THF and 0.75 ml of water is mixed with 24 mg 1 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by chromatography on a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2.5 1 . 108 mg 0.18 mmol 68.6 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

880 mg 1.5 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 208 mg and 236 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 5 and 6 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 1 acetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 95 mg 0.16 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 1 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water is mixed with 15.7 mg 0.66 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified chromatographically over a silica gel column mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 42.6 g 0.08 mmol 41.4 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

85 mg 0.15 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 2 chlorobenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 39.1 mg and 38.4 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 8 and 9 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid ethanol 85 15 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 120 mg 0.2 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyl 4 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 1 ml of THF and 0.5 ml of water is mixed with 18.8 mg 0.78 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified chromatographically over a silica gel column mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 3 1 100 ethyl acetate . 109 mg 0.18 mmol 91.5 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

90 mg 0.15 mmol of 4 3E 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyl 4 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxyphenyl but 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 44.3 mg and 41.8 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 11 and 12 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid ethanol 85 15 v v flow rate 15 m min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 284 mg 0.47 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 5 Phenylpentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 22.6 mg 0.95 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 78 mg 0.13 mmol 26 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

70 mg 0.12 mmol of 4 4E 5 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 26 mg and 17 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 14 and 15 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isopropanol 70 30 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 92 mg 0.16 mmol of methyl 4 4E Z 5 5 fluoro 2 2 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of water is mixed with 7.5 mg 0.31 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration 79 mg 0.14 mmol 88 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

70 mg 0.12 mmol of 4 4E Z 55 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 23 mg and 44 mg of the Z and E isomers are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 17 and 18 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid ethanol 60 40 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 384 mg 0.42 mmol of methyl 4 4E 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 20.3 mg 0.85 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 141 mg 0.21 mmol 46 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

120 mg 0.12 mmol of 4 4E 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 50 mg and 35 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colourless solids see Examples 20 and 21 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isopropanol 60 40 v v flow rate 15 mL min UV detection 215 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 70 mg 0.12 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoate in 0.5 ml of THF and 0.25 ml of water is mixed with 11.16 mg 0.47 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 45 mg 0.0761 mmol 66 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

45 mg 0.076 mmol of 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. 16 mg and 18 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 23 and 24 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 1 acetic 5 acid isopropanol 50 50 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 181 mg 0.32 mmol of methyl 4 3 E 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylvinyl 7 1H tetrazol 5 yl heptyl benzoate in 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of water is mixed with 61.18 mg 2.55 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 65 mg 0.12 mmol 36.8 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

73 mg 0.13 mmol of 4 3 E 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylvinyl 7 1H tetrazol 5 yl heptyl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. 31 mg of each of the two E isomers enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 26 and 27 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 50 50 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 35 C.

A solution of 600 mg 0.61 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoate in 20 ml of THF and 20 ml of water is mixed with 29.2 mg 1.22 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 205 mg 0.37 mmol 59.6 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

200 mg 0.36 mmol of 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. 69 mg of each of the two E isomers enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 29 and 30 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 80 20 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 35 C.

A solution of 62 mg 0.11 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoate in 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of water is mixed with 5.11 mg 0.21 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration and concentration 34 mg 0.06 mmol 57.6 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

30 mg 0.054 mmol of 7E 8 2 5 phenylpentyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. 10 mg of each of the two E isomers enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 32 and 33 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 80 20 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 215 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 800 mg 1.41 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl oct 7 enoate in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 67.6 mg 2.82 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 660 mg 1.2 mmol 87 of theory of a white foam are obtained.

700 mg 1.3 mmol of 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl oct 7 enoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 318 mg and 257 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 35 and 36 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 20 mm eluent isohexane with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isopropanol 65 35 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 35 C.

A solution of 36 mg 0.06 mmol of ethyl 7E Z 8 2 5 Phenylpentyl oxy phenyl 6 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl benzyl oct 7 enoate in 5 ml of methanol is mixed with 0.5 ml of 45 sodium hydroxide solution and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The methanol is then stripped off and the residue is taken up in water ethyl acetate. The mixture is adjusted to pH 3 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. The phases are separated and the aqueous phase is extracted two more times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 14.7 mg 0.03 mmol 43 of theory of a colorless foam are obtained.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with 95 O 5 COand has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 6 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of the infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment.

The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compound of Example 6 shows after oral administration of 10 mg kg a marked reduction in blood pressure over a period of 11 hours in this test.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

