---

title: Toner
abstract: A toner containing a resin binder and a colorant, wherein the resin binder contains a polyester (A) having a softening point Tm(A) of from 100° to 160° C., and a polyester (B) having a softening point Tm(B) of from 80° to 120° C., the softening point of which is lower than that of the polyester (A) by 5° C. or more, each polyester obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component, wherein the polyester (A) and/or (B) is a polyester obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component consisting essentially of an aliphatic alcohol, wherein the alcohol component contains a dihydric alcohol component containing 1,2-propanediol in an amount of 65% by mol or more, and a carboxylic acid component. The toner of the present invention is usable in the development or the like of a latent image formed in electrophotography, electrostatic recording method, electrostatic printing method, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08236470&OS=08236470&RS=08236470
owner: Kao Corporation
number: 08236470
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061128
---
The present invention relates to a toner usable in the development of a latent image formed in for example electrophotography electrostatic recording method electrostatic printing method or the like.

With the advancement in speeding up and conservation of energy of a machine a toner having excellent low temperature fixing ability is in demand. On the other hand with the advancement of speeding up a toner also having offset resistance which is a contradictory property to a low temperature fixing ability is in demand. In order to accomplish both of these properties a polyester blend system using an aromatic alcohol has been proposed. However the aromatic polyester has a disadvantage in that the aromatic polyester has a rigid structure so that the pulverizability upon the production of the toner is worsened whereby not facilitating the pulverization from the viewpoint of the production of toners having smaller particle sizes with the advancement in high image quality.

In view of the above a method including the step of blending a low molecular weight polyester with a high molecular weight polyester using an aliphatic alcohol having excellent pulverizability as a monomer has been employed see Patent Publication 1 .

The present invention relates to a toner containing a resin binder and a colorant wherein the resin binder contains a polyester A having a softening point Tm A of from 100 to 160 C. and a polyester B having a softening point Tm B of from 80 to 120 C. the softening point of which is lower than that of the polyester A by 5 C. or more each polyester obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component 

wherein the polyester A and or B is a polyester obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component consisting essentially of an aliphatic alcohol wherein the alcohol component contains a dihydric alcohol component containing 1 2 propanediol in an amount of 65 by mol or more and a carboxylic acid component.

While it is desired to satisfy both of low temperature fixing ability and offset resistance in an even higher level satisfaction of these properties would certainly accompany the lowering of the glass transition temperature especially in a method including the step of blending a low molecular weight resin thereby resulting in worsening of the storage property such as the toner is undesirably aggregated.

Especially in a case where a low molecular polyester is synthesized using an aliphatic alcohol the resulting polyester is likely to have a low glass transition point and be deficient in storage property because of the structural characteristic of the aliphatic alcohol based polyester.

Therefore in a method including the step of blending a low molecular weight polyester with a high molecular weight polyester using an aliphatic alcohol as a monomer it would be difficult to satisfy the offset resistance and the low temperature fixing ability at a high level and secure storage property.

In addition the polyester obtained from an aliphatic alcohol has a large number of ester bonds in the molecule a disadvantage that the polyester has high hygroscopicity thereby resulting in lowering of triboelectric chargeability under high temperature high humidity conditions is more likely to take place.

The present invention relates to a toner being excellent in any one of low temperature fixing ability offset resistance triboelectric charge stability under high temperature high humidity conditions and storage property.

The toner of the present invention exhibits excellent effects in any one of low temperature fixing ability offset resistance triboelectric charge stability under high temperature high humidity conditions and storage property.

The toner of the present invention contains at least a resin binder and a colorant wherein the resin binder contains two kinds of polyesters having specified softening points i.e. a polyester A and a polyester B given hereinbelow.

The polyester A is a polyester having a softening point Tm A of from 100 to 160 C. preferably from 120 to 160 C. more preferably from 130 to 155 C. and even more preferably from 135 to 155 C. On the other hand the polyester B is a polyester having a softening point Tm B of from 80 to 120 C. preferably from 80 C. or higher and lower than 120 C. more preferably from 85 to 115 C. and even more preferably from 90 to 110 C. the softening point of which is lower than that of the polyester A . The difference Tm of Tm A and Tm B is 5 C. or more preferably 10 C. or more more preferably from 15 to 55 C. and even more preferably 20 to 50 C. The polyester A having a high softening point contributes to the improvement in offset resistance and the polyester B having a low softening point contributes to the improvement in low temperature fixing ability respectively so that a combined use of both of the polyesters is effective in satisfying both of low temperature fixing ability and offset resistance. A weight ratio of the polyester A to the polyester B in the resin binder i.e. polyester A polyester B is preferably from 1 9 to 9 1 more preferably from 2 8 to 8 2 and even more preferably from 3 7 to 7 3.

Further the present invention has a major feature in that the polyester A and or B is a polyester obtained by polycondensing an alcohol component containing a dihydric alcohol component containing 1 2 propanediol in an amount of 65 by mol or more and a carboxylic acid component.

In the present invention 1 2 propanediol which is a branched alcohol having 3 carbon atoms usable in the alcohol component is effective in improving low temperature fixing ability while maintaining offset resistance as compared to those alcohols having 2 or less carbon atoms and is effective in preventing the lowering of storage property accompanying the lowering of the glass transition temperature as compared to those branched alcohols having 4 or more carbon atoms. Surprising effects that the toner can be fixed at a very low temperature are exhibited thereby improving storage property.

The alcohol component may contain an alcohol other than 1 2 propanediol within the range so as not to impair the effects of the present invention. The 1 2 propanediol is contained in an amount of 65 by mol or more preferably 70 by mol or more more preferably 80 by mol or more and even more preferably 90 by mol or more of the dihydric alcohol component. The dihydric alcohol component other than the 1 2 propanediol includes aliphatic dialcohols such as 1 3 propanediol ethylene glycols having different carbon atoms a hydrogenated bisphenol A or an alkylene 2 to 4 carbon atoms oxide average number of moles 1 to 16 adduct and the like. The dihydric alcohol component is contained in an amount of preferably from 60 to 95 by mol and more preferably from 65 to 90 by mol of the alcohol component.

Here it is preferable that the alcohol component of the polyester A contains 1 3 propanediol from the viewpoint of offset resistance. A molar ratio of 1 2 propanediol to 1 3 propanediol in the alcohol component of the polyester A i.e. 1 2 propanediol 1 3 propanediol is preferably from 99 1 to 65 35 more preferably from 95 5 to 70 30 even more preferably from 90 10 to 75 25 and even more preferably from 85 15 to 77 23.

Here the alcohol component may contain an aromatic alcohol such as an alkylene oxide adduct of bisphenol A such as polyoxypropylene 2.2 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane or polyoxyethylene 2.2 2 2 bis 4 hydroxyphenyl propane. However the alcohol component of the polyester A and or B consists essentially of an aliphatic alcohol and it is preferable that both of the alcohol components of the polyesters A and B consist essentially of an aliphatic alcohol. The phrase alcohol component consisting essentially of an aliphatic alcohol as used herein refers to an alcohol component containing an aliphatic alcohol in an amount of preferably 90 by mol or more more preferably 95 by mol or more even more preferably 98 by mol or more and even more preferably 99 by mol or more.

On the other hand it is preferable that the carboxylic acid component contains an aliphatic dicarboxylic acid compound having 2 to 4 carbon atoms. The aliphatic dicarboxylic acid compound having 2 to 4 carbon atoms includes adipic acid maleic acid malic acid succinic acid fumaric acid citraconic acid itaconic acid and acid anhydrides thereof and the like. Among them it is more preferable that at least one aliphatic dicarboxylic acid compound selected from the group consisting of succinic acid fumaric acid citraconic acid and itaconic acid is contained. These aliphatic dicarboxylic acid compounds are effective in the improvement of low temperature fixing ability. In the present invention among the above mentioned aliphatic dicarboxylic acid compounds itaconic acid is preferred.

The above mentioned aliphatic dicarboxylic acid is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.5 to 20 by mol and more preferably from 1 to 10 by mol of the carboxylic acid component from the viewpoint of the improvement in low temperature fixing ability and the control in the lowering of the glass transition temperature. Since a polyester obtained by polycondensing an aliphatic carboxylic acid compound containing no aromatic ring with 1 2 propanediol has improvement in compatibility with a releasing agent filming resistance can be even more enhanced by a combined use with the releasing agent.

Further it is preferable that the carboxylic acid component contains a rosin. By containing a rosin having a polycyclic aromatic ring hygroscopicity owned by a conventional aliphatic alcohol based polyester is lowered so that an effect against the lowering of triboelectric charges under high temperature high humidity conditions is even more enhanced.

In the present invention a rosin is a natural resin obtained from pine trees of which main components are resin acids such as abietic acid neoabietic acid palustric acid pimaric acid isopimaric acid sandaracopimaric acid dehydroabietic acid and levopimaric acid and mixtures thereof.

The rosins are roughly classified into a tall rosin obtained from a tall oil produced as a by product in the process of manufacturing pulp a gum rosin obtained from a crude turpentine a wood rosin obtained from stumps of pine tree and the like. The rosin in the present invention is preferably a tall resin from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability.

In addition the rosin may be a modified rosin such as an isomerized rosin a dimerized rosin a polymerized rosin a disproportionate rosin or a hydrogenated rosin. In the present invention a so called crude rosin without being modified is preferably used from the viewpoint of low temperature fixing ability and storage property.

It is preferable that the rosin is a purified rosin from the viewpoint of improvement of storage property and odor.

The purified rosin in the present invention is a rosin from which impurities are removed by a purifying step. The main impurities include 2 methylpropane acetaldehyde 3 methyl 2 butanone 2 methylpropanoic acid butanoic acid pentanoic acid n hexanal octane hexanoic acid benzaldehyde 2 pentylfuran 2 6 dimethylcyclohexanone 1 methyl 2 1 methylethyl benzene 3 5 dimethyl 2 cyclohexene 4 1 methylethyl benzaldehyde and the like. In the present invention peak intensities of three kinds of impurities of those listed above 2 methylpropane pentanoic acid and benzaldehyde which are detected as volatile components according to headspace GC MS method can be used as an index for a purified rosin. Here the reason why that the volatile components are used as indexes not in absolute amounts of impurities is in that the use of the purified rosin in the present invention has an objective of improvement in odor against conventional polyesters using rosins.

Specifically the purified rosin in the present invention refers to a rosin in which a peak intensity of hexanoic acid is 0.8 10or less a peak intensity of pentanoic acid is 0.4 10or less and a peak intensity of benzaldehyde is 0.4 10or less under measurement conditions for headspace GC MS method described later. Further from the viewpoint of storage property and odor the peak intensity of hexanoic acid is preferably 0.6 10or less and more preferably 0.5 10or less. The peak intensity of pentanoic acid is preferably 0.3 10or less and more preferably 0.2 10or less. The peak intensity of benzaldehyde is preferably 0.3 10or less and more preferably 0.2 10or less.

Further it is preferable that n hexanal and 2 pentylfuran are reduced in addition to the three kinds of substances mentioned above from the viewpoint of storage property and odor. The peak intensity of n hexanal is preferably 1.7 10or less more preferably 1.6 10or less and even more preferably 1.5 10or less. In addition the peak intensity of 2 pentylfuran is preferably 1.0 10or less more preferably 0.9 10or less and even more preferably 0.8 10or less.

As a method of purifying a rosin a known method can be utilized and the method includes a method by distillation recrystallization extraction or the like and it is preferable that the rosin is purified by distillation. As a method of distillation a method described for example in JP A Hei 7 286139 can be utilized. The method of distillation includes vacuum distillation molecular distillation steam distillation and the like and it is preferable that the rosin is purified by vacuum distillation. For example distillation is carried out usually at a pressure of 6.67 kPa or less and at a stilling temperature of from 200 to 300 C. an ordinary simple distillation as well as a method of thin film distillation rectification or the like can be applied. The high molecular weight compound is removed as a pitch component in an amount of from 2 to 10 by weight and at the same time an initial distillate is removed in an amount of from 2 to 10 by weight each based on the charged rosin under ordinary distillation conditions.

The purified rosin has a softening point of preferably from 50 to 100 C. preferably from 60 to 90 C. and even more preferably from 65 to 85 C. In addition by purifying the rosin impurities contained in the rosin are removed. The softening point of the purified rosin in the present invention means a softening point determined when a rosin is once melted and air cooled for 1 hour under environmental conditions of a temperature of 25 C. and a relative humidity of 50 in accordance with a method described later.

Further the purified rosin has an acid value of preferably from 100 to 200 mg KOH g more preferably from 130 to 180 mg KOH g and even more preferably from 150 to 170 mg KOH g.

The purified rosin is contained in an amount of preferably from 2 to 50 by mol more preferably from 5 to 40 by mol and even more preferably from 10 to 30 by mol of the carboxylic acid component.

Further the carboxylic acid component may contain a carboxylic acid compound other than the aliphatic carboxylic acid compound and the rosin mentioned above within the range that would not impair the effects of the present invention. It is preferable that an aromatic dicarboxylic acid such as phthalic acid isophthalic acid or terephthalic acid is contained from the viewpoint of securing the glass transition temperature. The aromatic dicarboxylic acid is contained in an amount of preferably from 40 to 95 by mol more preferably from 50 to 90 by mol and even more preferably from 60 to 80 by mol of the carboxylic acid component.

The polyester of the present invention is preferably a crosslinked polyester. As a crosslinking agent it is preferable that a trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomer is contained in the alcohol component and or the carboxylic acid component. The trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomer is contained in an amount of preferably from 0 to 40 by mol and more preferably from 5 to 30 by mol of a total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

In the trivalent or higher polyvalent raw material monomer a tricarboxylic or higher polycarboxylic acid compound is preferably trimellitic acid and a derivative thereof and a trihydric or higher polyhydric alcohol includes pentaerythritol trimethylolpropane sorbitol or alkylene 2 to 4 carbon atoms oxide average number of moles 1 to 16 adducts thereof and the like. Among them glycerol is preferred because glycerol not only acts as a crosslinking agent but also is effective in the improvement of low temperature fixing ability. Glycerol is contained in an amount of preferably from 5 to 40 by mol and more preferably from 10 to 35 by mol of the alcohol component from the above viewpoint.

It is preferable that the polycondensation of an alcohol component with a carboxylic acid component is carried out in the presence of an esterification catalyst. Preferred examples of the esterification catalysts in the present invention include titanium compounds and tin II compounds without containing a Sn C bond. These esterification catalysts can be used alone or in admixture of both kinds.

The titanium compound is preferably a titanium compound having a Ti O bond and a compound having an alkoxy group having a total number of carbon atoms of from 1 of 28 an alkenyloxy group having a total number of carbon atoms of from 2 of 28 or an acyloxy group having a total number of carbon atoms of from 1 of 28 is more preferable.

Specific examples of the titanium compound include titanium diisopropylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium diisopropylate bis diethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium dipentylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium diethylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium dihydroxyoctylate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON OHCHO titanium distearate bis triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium triisopropylate triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO titanium monopropylate tris triethanolaminate Ti CHON CHO and the like. Among them titanium diisopropylate bis triethanolaminate titanium diisopropylate bis diethanolaminate and titanium dipentylate bis triethanolaminate are preferable which are available as marketed products of Matsumoto Trading Co. Ltd.

Other specific examples of the preferred titanium compound include tetra n butyl titanate Ti CHO tetrapropyl titanate Ti CHO tetrastearyl titanate Ti CHO tetramyristyl titanate Ti CHO tetraoctyl titanate Ti CHO dioctyl dihydroxyoctyl titanate Ti CHO OHCHO dimyristyl dioctyl titanate Ti CHO CHO and the like. Among them tetrastearyl titanate tetramyristyl titanate tetraoctyl titanate and dioctyl dihydroxyoctyl titanate are preferable. These titanium compounds can be obtained by for example reacting a titanium halide with a corresponding alcohol and are also available as marketed products of Nisso or the like.

The titanium compound is present in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of a total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

The tin II compound without containing a Sn C bond is preferably a tin II compound having a Sn O bond a tin II compound having a Sn X bond wherein X is a halogen atom or the like and the tin II compound having a Sn O bond is more preferable.

The tin II compound containing a Sn O bond includes tin II carboxylate having a carboxylate group having 2 to 28 carbon atoms such as tin II oxalate tin II diacetate tin II dioctanoate tin II dilaurate tin II distearate and tin II dioleate dialkoxy tin II having an alkoxy group having 2 to 28 carbon atoms such as dioctyloxy tin II dilauroxy tin II distearoxy tin II and dioleyloxy tin II tin II oxide tin II sulfate and the like and the compound containing a Sn X bond wherein X is a halogen atom includes tin II halides such as tin II chloride and tin II bromide and the like. Among them a fatty acid tin II represented by the formula RCOO Sn wherein Ris an alkyl group or alkenyl group having 5 to 19 carbon atoms a dialkoxy tin II represented by the formula RO Sn wherein Ris an alkyl group or alkenyl group having 6 to 20 carbon atoms and tin II oxide represented by SnO are preferable and the fatty acid tin II represented by the formula RCOO Sn and tin II oxide are more preferable and tin II dioctanoate tin II distearate and tin II oxide are even more preferable from the viewpoint of an effect of initial rise of triboelectric charges and catalytic ability.

The tin II compound is present in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight more preferably from 0.1 to 0.8 parts by weight and even more preferably from 0.2 to 0.6 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

When the titanium compound and the tin II compound are used together the titanium compound and the tin II compound are present in a total amount of preferably from 0.01 to 1.0 part by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 0.5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the total amount of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component.

The polycondensation of the alcohol component and the carboxylic acid component can be carried out for example at a temperature of from 180 to 250 C. in an inert gas atmosphere in the presence of the above mentioned esterification catalyst. The softening point of the polyester can be adjusted by the reaction time.

The polyesters A and B have a glass transition temperature of preferably from 45 to 75 C. and more preferably from 50 to 70 C. and even more preferably from 50 to 65 C. from the viewpoint of fixing ability storage property and durability. The polyesters have an acid value of preferably from 1 to 80 mg KOH g and more preferably from 10 to 50 mg KOH g from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and environmental stability.

In the present invention it is preferable that the polyesters A and B are amorphous polyesters different from crystalline polyesters. The term amorphous polyester as used herein refers to a polyester having a difference between a softening point and a glass transition temperature Tg of 30 C. or more.

Incidentally the polyesters A and B may be a modified polyester. The term a modified polyester refers to a polyester which is grafted or blocked with phenol urethane epoxy or the like according to methods described in for example JP A Hei 11 133668 JP A Hei 10 239903 JP A Hei 8 20636 and the like.

The resin binder may be used together with a known resin binder within a range so as not to impair the effects of the present invention for example other resin such as a vinyl resin such as a styrene acrylic resin an epoxy resin a polycarbonate or a polyurethane. The polyester A and the polyester B are contained in a total amount of preferably 70 by weight or more more preferably 80 by weight or more even more preferably 90 by weight or more and even more preferably essentially 100 by weight of the resin binder.

As the colorant all of the dyes pigments and the like which are used as colorants for toners can be used and a carbon blacks Phthalocyanine Blue Permanent Brown FG Brilliant Fast Scarlet Pigment Green B Rhodamine B Base Solvent Red 49 Solvent Red 146 Solvent Blue 35 quinacridone carmine 6B disazoyellow or the like can be used. In the present invention the toner may be any of black toner and color toner. The colorant is contained in an amount of preferably from 1 to 40 parts by weight and more preferably from 2 to 10 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

It is preferable that the toner of the present invention contains a releasing agent. The releasing agent includes synthetic waxes such as polypropylene wax polyethylene wax and Fischer Tropsch wax coal waxes such as montan wax petroleum waxes such as paraffin waxes waxes such as alcohol waxes and natural ester waxes such as carnauba wax rice wax and candelilla wax. These waxes may be used alone or in admixture of two or more kinds. The releasing agent is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.5 to 10 parts by weight and more preferably from 1 to 8 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

The releasing agent has a melting point of preferably from 50 to 120 C. and more preferably at a temperature of equal to or lower than a softening point of the resin binder when taking the influences to blocking resistance and low temperature fixing ability of the resin binder into consideration.

As the charge control agent any one of negative chargeable and positively chargeable charge control agents can be used. The negatively chargeable charge control agent includes for example metal containing azo dyes copper phthalocyanine dyes metal complexes of alkyl derivatives of salicylic acid nitroimidazole derivatives and the like. The positively chargeable charge control agent includes for example Nigrosine dyes triphenylmethane based dyes quaternary ammonium salt compounds polyamine resins imidazole derivatives and the like. In addition a polymeric charge control agent such as a resin can be used. The charge control agent is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.1 to 8 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.2 to 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the resin binder.

The toner of the present invention may further properly contain an additive such as a charge control agent a magnetic powder a fluidity improver an electric conductivity modifier an extender a reinforcing filler such as a fibrous substance an antioxidant an anti aging agent or a cleanability improver.

The toner of the present invention may be a toner obtained by any of conventionally known methods such as a melt kneading method an emulsion phase inversion method and a polymerization method and a pulverized toner produced by the melt kneading method is preferable from the viewpoint of productivity and dispersibility of a colorant. Incidentally in the case of a pulverized toner produced by the melt kneading method the toner can be produced by homogeneously mixing raw materials such as a resin binder a colorant and a releasing agent with a mixer such as a Henschel mixer thereafter melt kneading the mixture with a closed kneader a single screw or twin screw extruder an open roller type kneader or the like cooling pulverizing and classifying the product. It is preferable that the toner has a volume median particle size of preferably from 3 to 15 m. The term volume median particle size D as used herein means a particle size at 50 when calculated from particle sizes of smaller particle sizes in the cumulative volume frequency calculated in percentage on the volume basis.

Furthermore the toner of the present invention may be subjected to an external addition treatment with an external additive such as fine inorganic particles of silica alumina titania zirconia tin oxide zinc oxide and the like and fine organic particles such as fine resin particles.

As the external additive silica having a small specific gravity is preferable from the viewpoint of preventing embedment. The silica is preferably a hydrophobic silica subjected to a hydrophobic treatment from the viewpoint of environmental stability. The method for hydrophobic treatment is not particularly limited and an agent for the hydrophobic treatment includes hexamethyldisilazane HMDS dimethyldichlorosilane DMDS a silicone oil methyl triethoxysilane and the like. It is preferable that the processing amount of the agent for the hydrophobic treatment is from 1 to 7 mg mper surface area of the fine inorganic particles.

The external additive has a number average particle size of preferably from 3 to 300 nm and more preferably from 5 to 100 nm from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and prevention of a photosensitive member from being damaged.

The external additive is contained in an amount of preferably from 0.01 to 10 parts by weight and more preferably from 0.1 to 5 parts by weight based on 100 parts by weight of the toner matrix particles.

The toner of the present invention can be used as a toner for monocomponent development or as a two component developer prepared by mixing the toner with a carrier.

In the present invention the carrier is preferably a carrier having a low saturation magnetization which forms a soft magnetic brush from the viewpoint of the image properties. The saturation magnetization of the carrier is preferably from 40 to 100 Am kg and more preferably from 50 to 90 Am kg. The saturation magnetization is preferably 100 Am kg or less from the viewpoint of controlling the hardness of the magnetic brush and retaining the tone reproducibility and preferably 40 Am kg or more from the viewpoint of preventing the carrier adhesion and the toner scattering.

As a core material for the carrier any of a known material can be used without any particular limitation. The core material includes for example ferromagnetic metals such as iron cobalt and nickel alloys and compounds such as magnetite hematite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite and glass beads and the like. Among them iron powder magnetite ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite are preferable from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and ferrite copper zinc magnesium ferrite manganese ferrite and magnesium ferrite are more preferable from the viewpoint of image quality.

It is preferable that the surface of the carrier is coated with a resin from the viewpoint of reducing the contamination of the carrier. The resin for coating the surface of the carrier may vary depending upon the toner materials and includes for example fluororesins such as polytetrafluoroethylenes monochlorotrifluoroethylene polymers and poly vinylidene fluorides silicone resins such as polydimethyl siloxane polyesters styrenic resins acrylic resins polyamides polyvinyl butyrals aminoacrylate resins and the like. These resins can be used alone or in admixture of two or more kinds. In the case where the toner is negatively chargeable silicone resins are preferable from the viewpoint of triboelectric chargeability and surface energy. The method of coating a core material with a resin is not particularly limited and includes for example a method of dissolving or suspending a coating material such as a resin in a solvent and applying the solution or suspension to be deposited on a core material a method of simply blending in the state of powder and the like.

In the two component developer of the present invention obtained by mixing a toner and a carrier a weight ratio of the toner to the carrier i.e. toner carrier is preferably from 1 99 to 10 90 and more preferably from 5 95 to 7 93.

The following examples further describe and demonstrate embodiments of the present invention. The examples are given solely for the purposes of illustration and are not to be construed as limitations of the present invention.

The softening point refers to a temperature at which a half of the sample flows out when plotting a downward movement of a plunger of a flow tester Shimadzu Corporation CFT 500D against temperature in which a sample is prepared by applying a load of 1.96 MPa thereto with the plunger using the flow tester and extruding a 1 g sample through a nozzle having a die pore size of 1 mm and a length of 1 mm while heating the sample so as to raise the temperature at a rate of 6 C. min.

Ten grams of a rosin is melted on hot plate at 170 C. for 2 hours. Thereafter the molten rosin is air cooled in an environment of an open state at a temperature of 25 C. and relative humidity of 50 and a cooled product is pulverized with a coffee mill National Panasonic MK 61M for 10 seconds.

The softening point refers to a temperature at which a half of the sample flows out when plotting a downward movement of a plunger of a flow tester Shimadzu Corporation CFT 500D against temperature in which a sample is prepared by applying a load of 1.96 MPa thereto with the plunger using the flow tester and extruding a 1 g sample through a nozzle having a die pore size of 1 mm and a length of 1 mm while heating the sample so as to raise the temperature at a rate of 6 C. min.

The glass transition temperature refers to a temperature of an intersection of the extension of the baseline of equal to or lower than the temperature of the maximum endothermic peak and the tangential line showing the maximum inclination between the kick off of the peak and the top of the peak which is determined using a differential scanning calorimeter Seiko Instruments Inc. DSC 210 of a sample of which temperature is raised at a rate of 10 C. min. the sample prepared by measuring out a sample in an amount of from 0.01 to 0.02 g on an aluminum pan raising its temperature to 200 C. and cooling the sample from that temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min.

The acid values are measured as prescribed by a method of JIS K0070 provided that only a measurement solvent is changed from a mixed solvent of ethanol and ether as prescribed in JIS K0070 to a mixed solvent of acetone and toluene acetone toluene 1 1 volume ratio .

A temperature of maximum endothermic peak obtained by raising the temperature of a sample at a rate of 10 C. min. the sample prepared by raising the temperature of a sample to 200 C. using a differential scanning calorimeter Seiko Instruments Inc. DSC 210 and cooling the heated sample from that temperature to 0 C. at a cooling rate of 10 C. min. is referred to as a melting point.

The number average particle size is obtained by the following formula Number Average Particle Size nm 6 Specific Surface Area m g 1000

In the formula is a specific gravity of a fine inorganic powder or an external additive and Specific Surface Area is a BET specific surface area obtained by nitrogen adsorption method of a raw powder or a raw powder before the hydrophobic treatment in the case of an external additive. For example the specific gravity of silica is 2.2 and the specific gravity of titanium oxide is 4.2.

Incidentally the above formula is obtained from BET Specific Surface Area S 1 m wherein m Mass of A Particle 4 3 R 2 Density and S Surface Area 4 R 2 assuming a sphere having a particle size R.

A 2000 ml distillation flask equipped with a fractionation tube a reflux condenser and a receiver was charged with 1000 g of a tall rosin and the tall rosin was distilled under a reduced pressure of 13.3 kPa and a fractionation component at 195 to 250 C. was collected as a main fractionation component to be used in Resin Production Examples described below.

Twenty grams of the rosin was pulverized with a coffee mill National Panasonic MK 61M for 5 seconds and the rosin having sizes of 1 mm sieve opening passed were measured off in an amount of 0.5 g in a vial for headspace 20 ml . A headspace gas was sampled and the results of analyzing impurities in the rosin by headspace GC MS method are shown in Table 1.

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Tables 2 and 3 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the rosin was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 15 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. itaconic acid was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 8 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. trimellitic anhydride was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of polyesters Resins H 0 and L 0 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 3 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. itaconic acid was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give a polyester Resin L 1 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a rectification tower a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 2 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. trimellitic anhydride was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 3 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at a normal pressure for 10 hours and then allowed to react at 210 C. and 20 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of polyesters Resins H 1 to H 3 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a rectification tower a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Tables 2 and 3 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 20 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of polyesters Resins H 4 H 5 and L 2 to L 5 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the rosin was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 15 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. itaconic acid was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 8 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. trimellitic anhydride was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of polyesters Resins H 6 and H 7 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the rosin was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 15 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. trimellitic anhydride was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give a polyester Resin H 8 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the rosin was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 15 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. itaconic acid was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give each of polyesters Resins L 6 and L 7 .

A 5 liter four necked flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet tube a dehydration tube a stirrer and a thermocouple was charged with an alcohol component terephthalic acid and an esterification catalyst as shown in Table 4 and the mixture was subjected to a polycondensation reaction at 230 C. for 15 hours under nitrogen atmosphere and thereafter the reaction mixture was allowed to react at 230 C. and 8.0 kPa for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. the rosin was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was allowed to react at 200 C. for 15 hours. After cooling the mixture to a temperature of 180 C. trimellitic anhydride was introduced into the mixture and the mixture was heated to a temperature of 210 C. over 2 hours. The mixture was allowed to react at 210 C. and 10 kPa until a desired softening point was reached to give a polyester Resin L 8 .

One hundred parts by weight of a resin binder shown in Table 5 4 parts by weight of a carbon black MOGUL L manufactured by Cabot Corporation 1 part by weight of a negatively chargeable charge control agent BONTRON S 34 manufactured by Orient Chemical Co. Ltd. and 1 part by weight of a polypropylene wax NP 105 manufactured by MITSUI CHEMICALS INC. melting point 105 C. were sufficiently mixed with a Henschel mixer and thereafter the mixture was melt kneaded using a unidirectional rotary twin screw extruder at a rotational speed of a roller of 200 r min. and a heating temperature inside the roller of 80 C. The resulting melt kneaded mixture was cooled and roughly pulverized the roughly pulverized product was then pulverized with a jet mill and the pulverized product was classified to give a powder having a volume median particle size D of 8.0 m.

To 100 parts by weight of the resulting powder was added 1.0 part by weight of an external additive Aerosil R 972 manufactured by Nippon Aerosil Co. LTD. hydrophobic treatment agent DMDS number average particle size 16 nm and the mixture was blended with a Henschel mixer to give a toner

A toner was loaded on a printer PAGEPRESTO N 4 manufactured by CASIO COMPUTER CO. LTD. fixing contact fixing method development method nonmagnetic monocomponent development method developer roller diameter 2.3 cm and an amount of toner adhesion was adjusted to 0.6 mg cm to give unfixed images. The obtained unfixed images were subjected to a fixing test by allowing unfixed images to fix while raising a temperature of the fixer roller from 100 to 250 C. with an increment of 10 C. using a fixing apparatus fixing speed 400 mm s modified so as to enable fixing outside the machine with a fixing apparatus of a contact fixing type copy machine AR 505 manufactured by Sharp Corporation .

 UNICEF Cellophane tape manufactured by MITSUBISHI PENCIL CO. LTD. width 18 mm JIS Z 1522 was adhered to the fixed images obtained at each fixing temperature and the resulting fixed images were allowed to pass through the fixing roller of the above fixing apparatus set at 30 C. and the tape was then removed. The optical reflective densities before and after the removal of the tape were measured using a reflective densitometer RD 915 manufactured by Macbeth Process Measurements Co. . A temperature of the fixing roller at which the ratio of both of the optical reflective densities i.e. that after removal that before removal initially exceeds 95 is defined as a lowest fixing temperature. The low temperature fixing ability was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. In addition the hot offset generating temperature was confirmed at the same time and the offset resistance was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

Four grams of a toner was placed in an open type cylindrical vessel having a diameter of 5 cm and a height of 2 cm and the toner was allowed to stand under environmental conditions of a temperature of 45 C. and a relative humidity of 65 for 72 hours. After allowing the toner to stand the vessel containing the toner was gently shaken and the presence or absence of the generation of toner aggregation was visually observed. The storage property was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

Forty grams of a toner obtained was mixed with 960 g of a resin coated ferrite carrier to give a developer. Each of the developers was allowed to stand under high temperature high humidity conditions of a temperature of 35 C. and a relative humidity of 85 for a whole day and night. The triboelectric charges before and after allowing the developer to stand were measured by blow off method. The triboelectric charges were evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

A change in triboelectric charges before and after allowing the developer to stand i.e. difference in triboelectric charges before and after standing triboelectric charges before standing 100 is 

A toner was loaded on a modifying apparatus linear speed 370 mm sec of a copy machine AR 505 manufactured by Sharp Corporation and 600 000 sheets of images having a printed ratio of 5 were continuously printed. After printing the condition of the generation of melt adhesion of the residual toner onto a surface of a photoconductive drum and the influence to print out fixed images were visually observed. The filming resistance was evaluated in accordance with the following evaluation criteria. The results are shown in Table 5.

It can be seen from the above results that the toners of Examples having favorable results in both of low temperature fixing ability and storage property are obtained and further that the toners of Examples also have triboelectric stability offset resistance and filming resistance as compared to those of the toners of Comparative Examples.

The toner obtained according to the present invention can be used in the development of a latent image formed in for example electrophotography electrostatic recording method electrostatic printing method or the like.

