---

title: Custom content compilation using digital chapter marks
abstract: Digital marks are used to define segments that are sequenced in a custom content compilation that provides a virtual program. A system is configured to receive definitions of digital marks that locate segments within program content. The segments are scenes or other portions of programs that constitute less than the entirety of the program content. A series of digital marks are associated as being within a content compilation sequence. Playback of the virtual program entails sequential output of the segments corresponding to the digital marks. Alternative content includes user photos, video clips and audio clips. The virtual program may also be automatically built through access to user profile or related information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078036&OS=08078036&RS=08078036
owner: Sony Electronics, Inc.
number: 08078036
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060823
---
This invention relates generally to digital content and more particularly to custom content compilation using digital marks.

As more and more content is stored and managed by users techniques for organizing and management the enjoyment of that content have developed.

It is known to collect user preference information and to use that information to determine whether programming should be captured and retained for later enjoyment. Programs selected in this fashion may also be arranged in a virtual channel. However these techniques treat entire programs as the smallest unit of content. Programs in the virtual channel are by default initiated at scheduled times and are regularly deleted after their scheduled viewing. Also these virtual channels are assembled from content to be recorded in the future as opposed to content already recorded. This places limitations on how the programs in the virtual channel can be scheduled. This also limits the ability of the user to truly customize the channel as he or she must choose the schedule before he or she has viewed the content. Additionally these techniques fail to recognize that more than program content may be stored on a given system. The user may also store photos and other multimedia information in addition to broadcast program content.

Other systems seek to simulate the traditional broadcast channel paradigm with recorded content creating virtual channels to which recoded content is mapped. Again these systems merely take entire programs and assemble them in a fashion thought to be desired by a user. These systems do not allow users to select and sequence particular scenes within such programs. Thus while they may offer suggestions to users they do not offer much customization or flexibility to the user.

Conventional systems also allow users to bookmark content. These bookmarks allow a user to return to a particular spot in a program. Bookmarked content is not assembled and sequenced according to user input or expectations.

It is also known to index content for abbreviated playback. However this is typically an indexing of a single program such as a sporting event. These systems do not offer the ability to compile content from various different sources of content into a customized virtual program.

While various useful content compilation and navigation techniques have been developed there is a need for better management of the various program and custom content that may be stored and managed by users.

Digital marks are used to define segments that are sequenced in a custom content compilation that provides a virtual program. A system is configured to receive definitions of digital marks that locate segments within program content. The segments are scenes or other portions of programs that constitute less than the entirety of the program content. A series of digital marks are associated as being within a content compilation sequence. Playback of the virtual program entails sequential output of the segments corresponding to the digital marks. Alternative content includes user photos video clips and audio clips. The virtual program may also be automatically built through access to user profile or related information.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including business processes computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Although a DVR system is one example of a system implementing the invention it is noted that other types of systems are equally applicable for such implementation. For example is a schematic diagram illustrating a system that implements one or more aspects of the invention as a set top box STB which is separate from a DVR type device. In this embodiment the STB is in communication with a DVR . The ensemble of the STB and the DVR collectively may be coupled to a display device such as display . In one embodiment the user may interact with the STB by means of control instructions sent by pressing buttons on the wireless remote . The user may press the display button to input a control instruction to the STB to begin displaying information in a status bar at the bottom of the screen of the TV set about the programming being displayed on display device . In another embodiment the remote control may include a power key which is used to power the STB on or off. It should equally be appreciated that a user may provide instructions to the STB using any other known user input means. Moreover wireless remote may have more or fewer input options.

These other types of systems include but are not limited to any STB having stored content whether in conjunction with a DVR or not conventional computer systems having components for storing and reproducing stored content display devices having internal facilities for storing and reproducing stored content e.g. a television with internal receiver and storage portable multimedia devices e.g. an iPod or similar device for playing content or portable communication devices e.g. cellular phones .

Still referring to the illustrated DVR system includes an input module a media switch and an output module . The input module accepts video input streams in one or more forms e.g. National Television Standards Committee NTSC PAL Digital Satellite System DSS Digital Broadcast System DBS Advanced Television Standards Committee ATSC etc. . DBS DSS and ATSC are based on standards called Moving Pictures Experts Group 2 MPEG2 and MPEG2 Transport. MPEG2 Transport is a standard for formatting the digital data stream from the source transmitter so that a receiver can disassemble the input stream to find programs in the multiplexed signal.

The input module may produce MPEG streams. An MPEG2 transport multiplex supports multiple programs in the same broadcast channel with multiple video and audio feeds and private data. The input module also accommodates tuning to particular channels extracting particular programs and feeding the same to the rest of the system. Analog video signals may be encoded into MPEG format using separate video and audio encoders. Information may be modulated into the Vertical Blanking Interval VBI of the analog video signal in a number of standard ways. For example the North American Broadcast Teletext Standard NABTS may be used to modulate information onto lines through of an NTSC signal while the FCC mandates the use of line for Closed Caption CC and Extended Data Services EDS . Such signals may be decoded by the input module and passed to the other modules as if they were delivered via a MPEG2 private data channel.

The media switch mediates between a microprocessor CPU storage device e.g. a hard disk and memory . The DVR system also implements a cache which may be found in memory . Input streams are converted to an MPEG stream and sent to the media switch . The media switch buffers the MPEG stream into memory . If the user is watching real time broadcast content the media switch may send the stream to the output module as well as simultaneously write it to the hard disk or storage device .

The output module may take the MPEG streams as input and produces an analog video signal according to a particular standard e.g. NTSC PAL or other video standard . In one embodiment the output module contains an MPEG decoder on screen display OSD generator analog video encoder and audio logic. The OSD generator may be used to supply images which will be overlaid on top of the resulting analog video signal. Additionally the output module can modulate information supplied by the program logic onto the VBI of the output signal in a number of standard formats including NABTS CC and EDS.

The user may input control instructions for displaying such programming information via button a remote control device for example. It should equally be appreciated that a user may provide instructions to the DVR system using any other known user input means.

The memory also contains instructions that are used for various functions. These instructions may originally reside in the storage device and may be uploaded during a boot up sequence or whenever the relevant functionality is a perceived requirement. For example these instructions accommodate various typical DVR related operations related to the management and reproduction of content including the insertion of programming information directly into the MPEG data stream. The instructions also may accommodate various guide management and related functions including the generation and management of digital chapter marks also referred to as digital marks in connection with aspects of the present invention and the generation of thumbnail images including those used in connection with digital marks.

The instructions include those for providing a custom content compilation module according to one or more aspects of the present invention. The custom content compilation module is preferably software but also may be provided as hardware or firmware or any combination of software firmware and hardware. According to one aspect the custom content compilation module provides interfaces and corresponding management of information to allow a user to apply digital marks to program segments to maintain an association of digital marks as being within a content compilation sequence and to facilitate a custom content reproduction e.g. video playback mode that sequentially outputs marked segments according to the content compilation sequence.

The user is thus allowed to create a virtual program by browsing through content and marking multiple pieces of such content using digital marks. For example if the user has engaged the DVR system to store multiple episodes of the program Seinfeld the user can navigate among that content and create a customized Best of Seinfeld program by creating digital chapter marks for segments within various episodes. The custom content compilation module maintains these digital chapter marks for the virtual program the content compilation sequence and plays them back in the appropriate order as specified by the user.

According to another aspect the custom content compilation module allows the management of digital chapter marks in conjunction with provision of a virtual album wherein the compilation comprises recorded content of various media types. For example the album may contain still images video clips and audio clips. It is believed that this aspect may be useful for the management of user customized content such as photographs video and audio corresponding to a family vacation that is stored on the DVR or perhaps on the storage device of a personal computer .

According to still another aspect the custom content compilation module communicates with a preference engine and or user profile information of the DVR system and uses that information to automatically generate virtual programs that contain all of the content that the identified user s would most likely watch. These virtual programs may also be categorized into general areas such as news sports etc. and may be preferentially displayed or retained as available based upon date and time information. For example a given virtual program may be perceived as more desirable at a particular time of day. Since the custom content compilation module generates these virtual programs automatically and suggests them to user s the custom content compilation module may also automatically delete stale virtual programs according to some preferred schedule. The latter feature may be engaged unilaterally by the custom content compilation module or in conjunction with other DVR system modules that manage the retention of programs.

As another alternative the digital marks are to facilitate editing out sections of recorded content. The user similarly marks the content but designates the segment as being excluded during playback. This causes the segment to be skipped during a playback of the content. According to this alternative the user may edit out only undesired segments e.g. undesired advertisements or portions of a program in a customized fashion.

The custom compilation module includes a digital mark management DMM module a sequence maintenance module a compilation reproduction module and an automatic program generation module .

Although one modular breakdown of the custom content compilation system is illustrated it should be understood that the described functionality may also be provided using greater fewer or differently named sub modules.

The DMM module allows the definition of digital marks by the user and communicates with the sequence maintenance module with regard to updates regarding the same. To the extent necessary the DMM module also communicates with other DVR system modules that provide conventional content maintenance and guide management functions. For example the DMM module may retrieve identification of previously stored content the location of that content as well as metadata related to the content. This information is variously displayed for the user to assist in the marking process. The DMM module is configured to receive indications of digital marks that locate respective segments within program content such as stored broadcast program content. Preferably these segments at least some constitute less than the entirety of the program content to which they are applicable. That is the segment may be a scene or other portion found within a stored television program. In this fashion first second third etc. digital marks respectively locate segments in various programs.

Preferably the indication of digital marks includes an identification of the respective start and end points of their respective segments. Thus a given digital mark comprises both start and end points. These points may be defined based upon respective time offsets within the corresponding program. Digital marks that define segments may also have start and end points that differ from those established by chapter marks defined by users for other purposes. The information for digital marks may also be collected while program content is being displayed or paused or otherwise manipulated using conventional commands such as rewind and fast forward .

The sequence maintenance module communicates with the DMM module and receives identification of the digital marks and related information. The sequence maintenance module maintains a current digital mark sequence for one or more content compilation sequences. These content compilation sequences as defined by the digital marks provide content that may be referred to as a virtual program or virtual album. A given virtual program may be reviewed and manipulated by the user. For example a user may decide that a particular segment would be more appealing in another location in the sequence. The sequence maintenance module provides interfaces useful for accommodating management of the sequence. Of course as a user makes changes to the sequence or as new digital marks are introduced the sequence maintenance module updates the stored sequence to reflect the same.

Updates to previously established content compilation sequences are also facilitated by the sequence maintenance module in conjunction with the DMM module . This may be done by receiving a command requesting an update to the content compilation sequence while program content is being output interrupting output of the program content and receiving an indication of a new digital mark locating a segment within the current program content. The content compilation sequence is then updated to include the new digital mark.

The compilation reproduction module provides a custom content compilation reproduction mode that sequentially outputs program content according to the content compilation sequence. A user selects a given virtual program for playback. This may be variously accomplished such as through the conventional DVR system menu or directly through the sequence maintenance module . The compilation reproduction module may invoke the playback functionality of the DVR system to sequentially play segments defined by the digital marks as dictated by the content compilation sequence of the selected virtual program.

The DMM module and or sequence maintenance module are also preferably configured to provide interfaces that ease the definition and management of digital marks. This entails graphically displaying the content compilation sequence including a visual identification of the sequence of digital marks in the content compilation sequence. For example a graphical bar type display may illustrate a sequence of digital marks.

The user may also provide customized descriptions for segments associated with digital marks. This may take many forms. For example a user may want to associate text or voice that states Here is my favorite scene in this series ever in association with a given segment. Preferably the custom description will play between segments in the sequence. This is just one example of a custom description which may be various audio video and text provided by the user. It may also be quips or scenes from another program. For example a Homer Simpson quote may precede a given set of segments for a sitcom.

As described according to another aspect the custom content compilation module manages digital chapter marks in conjunction with provision of a virtual album containing still images video clips and audio clips preferably user customized content such as photographs video and audio. The sub modules function similarly with the represented content being the user customized content in lieu of broadcast program content or the like. This allows management of personal media.

The automatic program generation module automatically generates custom virtual programs based upon perceived user preferences. The automatic generation module may communicate with a preference engine provided by the DVR system or may operate on profile information that is manually entered or managed by the user. This information is used to automatically generate virtual programs that contain all of the content that the identified user s would most likely watch. In one example the programs are virtual programs generated from content that is received and stored by the DVR system . These virtual programs may also be categorized into general areas such as news sports etc. and may be preferentially displayed or retained as available based upon date and time information. For example a given virtual program may be perceived as more desirable at a particular time of day. One or more virtual programs may be suggested for the user s along with other conventional suggestions when the DVR system is accessed. Automatic generation of the virtual programs can be based upon various techniques for determining whether a program is likely to be desirable to a user including but not limited to investigation of keywords in title and program description data analysis of viewing patterns identification of programs favored by users with similar profiles and expert based systems.

Virtual albums may also be automatically built and suggested based upon user profile information. The user may assist this process by associating metadata with entries that are loaded into the system. For example the names of subjects within photos or the particular portion of a vacation may be described. A given virtual album may comprise content perceived as belonging together based upon this metadata. Of course as described the user may manipulate sequences and add or remove content as desired.

The process initiates with receiving a command requesting custom content compilation. As described this may be through receipt of a command from a remote control either through a dedicated button or through menu selection during a prescribed mode of operation. For example a dedicated custom content button allows a user to immediately navigate to panels that allow the review and management of virtual programs. Alternatively virtual programs may be shown as available content alongside regular program content.

A virtual program comprises a series of segments respectively defined by digital marks with playback of the virtual program providing a seamless integration of those segments. The user may also establish and manage several different virtual programs. The process continues with identification of the virtual program to be processed. This may be through a selection of a row corresponding to a previously established virtual program in a program guide. Alternatively it may be a completely new virtual program.

The content in the virtual program may then be managed by adding deleting moving and describing the segments that comprise the virtual channel. The process commences with identification of current source content to be marked using digital marks which allow the segment in the source content to be identified and included in the virtual program. In one embodiment this source content is preferably a stored program such as a broadcast television program that is stored according to the DVR System functionality. In other embodiments the source content may also comprise other content including but not limited to a user s personal photographs videos and audio.

The process continues with receipt of the definition of a digital mark corresponding to the current source content. The information defining the digital mark may include the start point and end point for a segment in the source content. For example this segment may be a favorite scene in the source content. Descriptive information corresponding to the digital mark is also received. This information may include text that is entered using conventional commands audio clips or even video clips. Preferably the descriptive information relates to the segment defined by the digital mark.

The current virtual program may then be updated to include the piece of content defined by the digital mark. The digital mark may be manipulated preferably using a graphical indication of the sequence of digital marks in the virtual program. This allows the segment to be placed wherever the user desires in the sequence of segments to be played back when the virtual program is later accessed for enjoyment. The initial placement may be at the end of the sequence for the current virtual program. Conventional user interfacing may be used to accommodate editing of the sequence including selection of a digital mark and cursor based operations to move the segment within a current virtual program.

The process continues with additional identification of source content and corresponding definition of digital marks and updating of the virtual program when it is determined that the user wants to add pieces of content to the current virtual program. Of course the user may indicate a desire to create or edit more virtual programs with processing determined accordingly.

In addition to the identification of the digital marks a second row of information depicts respective identification of the source content corresponding to each digital mark in another series of cells . This source content may for example be identified according to the title of the program containing the segment defined by the digital mark. Although broadcast program content is the source content in one embodiment the source content may alternatively come from other sources including custom content that is loaded into the system by the user.

Still another row of information in the virtual program information area includes descriptive information for each segment again within cells respectively corresponding to the segments. As a shorthand the descriptive information may be referred to as notes . The descriptive information is preferably customizable by the user and may include text audio and or video information that the user wishes to associate with the segment. The text information may be entered using conventional remote control operations such as through provision of a keyboard overlay on the screen from which selection of alphanumeric characters is made. Of course in some embodiments an actual keyboard may be provided for input as well. Audio clips may be entered through a microphone or may be previously uploaded clips that are selected for association with the segment.

The virtual program information area is configured to allow user navigation among the cells for the digital marks. Selection of a given digital mark prompts display of additional information corresponding to the digital mark as well as segment editing and review.

The digital mark information area is used to both convey and receive information corresponding to the definition of the digital mark or marks . A table of information includes the virtual program identifier digital mark number source identification duration and notes identification .

The digital mark information area also contains a program bar that offers a depiction of the source content as well as the relative location of the segment within that source content. Specifically a start point and end point respectively correspond to the currently selected digital mark. A segment illustration bar repeats an identification of the digital mark such as through presentation of its identification number and may offer additional information corresponding to the segment such as duration. Presentation of the segment in this fashion allows the user to easily edit the bounds of the segment within the source content. If the segment is determined to be too long too short or in the wrong location the user may move either or both endpoints using cursor control and related inputs.

Video including that from the segment is concurrently played on the display screen . A play status bar indicates the location of the video currently played on the screen . As with conventional DVR system functionality the play status bar may be moved with the video playback updating accordingly. This allows the user to easily move to different locations within the program so that the most desirable start and end points of a given segment may be easily identified.

As described above management of digital chapter marks may also be in conjunction with provision of a virtual album wherein the compilation comprises recorded content of various media types such as still images video clips and audio clips. This allows the management of user customized content such as photographs video and audio to be stored and enjoyed in a desired program and sequence. In this alternative in lieu of program content being displayed as the source content associated with a content compilation these other forms of content are noted as the source. illustrates an example of a display device display screen and virtual program information area according to this aspect. The cells corresponding to segments indicate stored user photos video audio as the sources of content. The remaining elements of the virtual program information area namely the virtual program identification digital mark identification and descriptive information cells are analogous to the functionality described in connection with above.

The management of the digital marks and corresponding playback of content including during a virtual program editing session may be accommodated according to any number of alternatives including those described in commonly owned co pending application Ser. No. 11 081 217 entitled Method and Apparatus for Navigating Video Content. For example as described in that document thumbnail images may be depicted in association with the segments corresponding to digital marks. A panel may comprise a sequence of thumbnails that correspond to the chapter marks and a user may scroll through the thumbnails using directional navigation and related commands to manipulate the custom content compilation sequence represented by the thumbnails.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide custom content compilation. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

