---

title: System and method for facilitating targeted advertising
abstract: A method of providing an advertisement including receiving a request for an advertisement of an advertiser, determining a purchase history for a user associated with the request for the advertisement, providing an advertisement of an advertiser in response to the request for the advertisement, and generating an advertising fee to be paid by the advertiser based on the purchase history of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131594&OS=08131594&RS=08131594
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08131594
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
This Application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 813 601 entitled System and Method for Facilitating Targeted Advertising filed on Nov. 2 2005 which application was converted to a provisional patent application from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 265 768 filed on Nov. 2 2005 . This Application is further a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 201 749 entitled Ad Server System with Click Fraud Protection filed on Aug. 11 2005. Both of the above listed applications are incorporated herein by reference.

A common advertising model utilized on the Internet in particular with search engine websites involves a system of providing sponsored links. Sponsored links are advertisements that appear in addition to search results when users input keywords at search engine websites. For example if a visitor to the search engine website enters the term flowers advertisements that an advertiser believes may be relevant to someone searching for flowers are displayed with particular search results. Advertisers generally pay the provider of the search engine a fee for the display of the advertisements. The advertisements appear as a result of advertisers bidding on particular keywords such as flowers. If multiple advertisers place bids on the same keyword it is common for advertisements with the highest bids to be displayed when a visitor enters a search term that matches the keyword. Oftentimes there is no limit on the number of search terms a particular advertiser may bid on.

The bidding process is commonly managed by an intermediary such as a search engine website. Advertisers bid on keywords and submit advertisements associated with the keywords to the intermediary. The intermediary typically utilizes one or more databases for storing the advertisements associating the advertisements with bids and keywords keeping track of the highest bidders scheduling etc. and ensuring that at any given instance the advertisements corresponding to the highest bids are displayed when search terms matching the keywords are entered by the visitors to the search engine website. Whenever a visitor clicks on a displayed advertisement referred to herein as a click event the intermediary charges the advertiser a fee. The intermediary also commonly monitors the click through rate e.g. how many users actually select or click on the displayed advertisement . In some cases if the number of visitors clicking on the advertisement is too low the advertisement will no longer be displayed even if it is associated with the highest bid.

Another variation of the above described concept is to show the keyword based advertisements on websites other than search engines search result sites. For example if a website contains information about flowers then it is likely that visitors viewing the website may have an interest in advertisements related to flowers. Thus the intermediary may provide special programs to which publishers of websites can subscribe. In such a program the intermediary analyzes the publisher s website to determine a suitable keyword or set of keywords to be associated with the website such as flowers in the above example. The intermediary selects from its database the highest bidder on the determined keyword or keywords and provides the appropriate advertisements for the publisher s website. This type of advertising program is beneficial to the publisher since the publisher is not required to take action other than display the advertisements and collect monetary compensation for displaying the advertisements. The publisher may also receive monetary compensation each time a visitor of the website clicks on the displayed advertisement. This compensation model is often referred to as pay per click. 

An ongoing challenge is to ensure that advertisers receive adequate value for the money they spend on advertising. Some users may click on an advertisement but if the user has never purchased a product over the web the user is not a likely purchaser as a result of the advertisement. It would be beneficial to advertisers to be able to focus their advertising spending on users that are known to make purchases based on the advertisement displayed. It may further be beneficial to ad placement services to provide a system and method to capture the higher value of users who have previously made purchases. It should be understood that although certain advantages are described the teachings herein may be used to implement systems and methods that do not have any of these advantages but which have other advantages.

According to an exemplary embodiment a method of providing an advertisement is shown. The method includes receiving a request for an advertisement of an advertiser determining a purchase history for a user associated with the request for the advertisement providing an advertisement of an advertiser in response to the request for the advertisement and generating an advertising fee to be paid by the advertiser based on the purchase history of the user.

According to a second exemplary embodiment a method of providing an advertisement is shown. The method includes receiving a selection of an advertisement of an advertiser determining a purchase history for a user associated with the selection of the advertisement and generating an advertising fee to be paid by the advertiser based on the purchase history of the user.

According to a third exemplary embodiment a method of providing an advertisement is shown. The method includes obtaining one or more keywords associated with a user receiving a purchase history for the user and identifying one or more advertisements associated with the one or more keywords each of the one or more advertisements advertising a product or service and each of the plurality of advertisements being stored in a database. The method further includes selecting one of the one or more advertisements providing the advertisement to the user and determining an advertisement price to be charged to the advertiser for providing the advertisement to the user the advertisement price being determined based at least in part on the purchase history of the user.

According to a fourth exemplary embodiment an ad placement system for on line advertising is shown. The ad placement system is configured to receive advertisements from advertisers each advertisement having an associated bid indicative of a remuneration that an advertiser associated with the advertisement will compensate a website publisher for a specified response to the associated advertisement. The bid is generated based at least in part on a past purchase history correlating to the purchase history of a user. The system is further configured to aggregate the received advertisements in an on line ad listing database that is accessible to website publishers via the Internet receive advertisement selection information and user information from a publisher of a website the user information including the purchase history of the user select an advertisement from the ad listing database in accordance with the selection information and provide the advertisement to the website publisher for display on the website of the website publisher to the user.

This summary and the following detailed description are directed to certain specific embodiments of the invention. The invention is not limited to the particular embodiments and applications described herein. The invention is defined only by the claims.

The present application provides an ad server system that takes into consideration information about the user who clicks on an ad in determining whether to charge the advertiser for the click event and or in determining an amount of a fee to charge the advertiser. By taking such user information into consideration the system is capable of significantly reducing charges to the advertisers and payments to ad publishers for user actions that constitute click fraud. Further such user information allows advertisers to provide their advertisements to a targeted audience to increase the effectiveness of the advertisement.

In one embodiment unless a user who clicks on an ad is recognized the advertiser is not charged for the ad selection event. Thus advertisers do not have to pay the ad placement provider when the users who click on their ads are not recognized. If the user is recognized the ad server system may determine whether and or how much to charge the advertiser based on information about the recognized user. This information may include for example whether the user has set up an account whether a valid credit card is on file for the user whether the user has previously made purchases on line and or other types of user information that can be used to optimize advertising effectiveness for advertisers providing and paying for the advertisements.

The determination of whether and or how much to charge the advertiser for an ad selection event may in some embodiments be based partially or entirely on user data maintained by the ad placement provider. For example the ad placement provider or on affiliate of the ad placement provider may operate a web site such as an online shopping site or a subscription based content site which provides functionality for users to create online accounts. The user data that is collected may include past purchase information. The past purchase information may be either limited simply indicating that the user has or has not made an on line purchase or detailed including detailed information regarding past purchases. Detailed information may include the item purchases a general category for the item purchased a geographic location associated with the item purchased a vendor identification for the item purchased method of payment frequency of purchases total dollars spent on line etc. The user data collected in connection with these user accounts may in turn be used by the ad server system to identify users who click on ads and to determine whether these users meet pre specified criteria for charging the advertiser. For example the advertiser may be charged only if the ad server system receives a browser cookie from the user computer or only if this cookie is associated with a user account that satisfies particular criteria.

The determination of whether and or how much to charge the advertiser for an ad selection event may additionally or alternatively be based on user data maintained by the ad publishing site that published the ad. For example the ad publishing site may maintain its own database of user account information in connection with services provided to customers of the ad publisher. The user account information may similarly include past purchase information related to the user. Upon receiving a browser request for a web page on which an ad is to be displayed the ad publishing site may notify the ad server system of whether the user is recognized and or of whether the user meets pre selected criteria e.g. has a credit card on file has made past purchases etc. . If the user thereafter clicks on the ad the ad server system may use the information received from the ad publishing site to determine whether and or how much to charge the advertiser.

Referring to a user computer an ad publishing web site an ad server and an advertiser web site that participate in ad selection transactions are shown in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. Ad server may be a component in an ad placement system further described below with reference to that provides functionality for collecting sponsored link type ads from advertisers serving these ads for display on web pages and charging advertisers for resulting ad selection events. The primary entity that operates the ad placement system is referred to herein as the ad placement provider. 

The ad publishing site may be one of many web sites that post or publish ads served by the ad server through a business relationship with the ad placement provider. An entity that operates in ad publishing site is referred to herein as an ad publisher. In the embodiment depicted in the ad publishing site retrieves the ads from the ad server in response to page requests from user computers and incorporates these ads into the requested web pages. In another embodiment which is depicted in and discussed below the ad server transmits the ads directly to the user computers .

The advertiser web site is a web site of an entity referred to as the advertiser that advertises on one or more ad publishing site via the ad placement system . As is known in the art the advertiser may create one or more ads also referred to as sponsored links via the ad generation interface of the ad placement system and may specify one or more criteria for controlling how these ads are selected for display. For example the advertiser may associate a given ad with one or more keywords that are used by the ad server to select ads for display. Each such ad typically includes a link that can be clicked on to access the corresponding advertiser site .

The ad server ad publishing site and the advertiser site may each be implemented by one or more physical servers. The user computer may be any type of computing device PC personal digital assistant television set top box mobile phone etc. capable of retrieving and displaying web pages or other types of hypertextual content. The various communications shown in may occur over the Internet and or any other type of computer network.

As depicted in the ad server may access a repository of user data including user account data for purposes of determining whether and or how much to charge the advertiser for an ad selection event. For example if a user who clicks on an ad is not recognized by the ad server or is recognized but does not meet pre specified criteria e.g. has not set up an account has not supplied a valid credit card number has not made any past purchases etc. the ad server may direct the user to the advertiser site without charging the advertiser. User data to retrieve from this repository may additionally or alternatively be used to calculate a monetary amount to be charged to the advertiser for the ad selection event.

The user data stored in the repository may be collected as a result of other online operations of the ad placement provider and or its affiliates. For example the ad placement provider may operate one or more web sites for providing services sales rentals subscription based content etc. to web users or for conducting other types of operations that involve a collection of user data. The type of user data that is collected and stored by the ad placement provider and used to determine pay per click charges to advertisers may vary widely depending on the type or types of online transactions conducted. For example in the context of online sales and rentals of items the user data stored for a given user will typically include a user name and password an e mail address a shipping address credit card or other payment information and a history of transactions conducted.

The determination of whether and or how much to charge the advertiser may additionally or alternatively be made based on user data stored in a data repository of the ad publisher. For example the ad publishing site and or another web site of the ad publisher may collect user data in the course of providing services sales rentals subscriptions etc. to its customers. This data may be used alone or in combination with user data maintained by the ad placement provider to determine pay per click charges to the advertisers. Thus although the ad server and the ad publishing site are both shown in as accessing a respective repository of user data one of these two repositories may be omitted.

In embodiments in which user data maintained by the ad publisher is used to determine pay per click charges to advertisers the ad publishing site may be configured to send cookie files cookies to the computers of some or all users that access the ad publishing site. When a user browser submits a request to the ad publisher site with a valid cookie the user is said to be recognized by the ad publisher site. In some cases a recognized user may be unknown meaning generally that the cookie is valid but is not associated with a valid user account. The users may additionally or alternatively be recognized via other types of automatically transmitted identifiers that are now in use or which may be used in the future including unique browser identifiers and unique CPU identifiers.

In embodiments in which user data maintained by the ad placement provider is used to determine pay per click charges to advertisers one or more web sites of the ad placement provider may similarly store cookies on the computers of users. These one or more web sites may operate in the same Internet domain as the ad server so that the ad server can access these cookies. As with the ad publishing site a user may in some cases be recognized by but unknown to the ad server .

The numbered events shown in represent an exemplary embodiment in which the ad publishing site retrieves the ads from the ad server and incorporates these ads into web pages. A second embodiment in which the ads are retrieved by the user computer is depicted in and described in section IV below. Although the events shown in are numbered sequentially for purposes of explanation the events do not necessarily need to be performed in the listed order. Further the method may include additional different and or fewer events than those shown in the exemplary embodiment.

In event the web browser running on the user computer sends a page request to the ad publishing site . The page request may for example be an HTTP GET URL request or may be an HTTP POST request used to submit a search query or other information supplied by the user. If a cookie corresponding to an ad publishing site is stored on the computer this cookie will ordinarily be transmitted with the page request.

As depicted by Event in if the page request is accompanied by a cookie the ad publishing site optionally determines whether the page request is associated with a user or user account that satisfies pre selected criteria such as a history of past purchases. This step may involve using the received cookie to look up associated user data from the ad publisher s data repository and determining whether this user data satisfies one or more conditions. For example the ad publishing site may determine whether the received cookie is associated with a valid credit card or bank account or whether the cookie is associated with an account that is otherwise in good standing.

In Event in the ad publishing site sends a request to the ad server for one or more ads to be displayed on the requested web page. This request may be accompanied with information about the outcome of the determination if any made by the ad publishing site in Event . For example the ad publishing site may notify the ad server of whether the user meets one or more pre specified criteria for charging advertisers for ad selection events or may pass to the ad server user information typically in anonymous form for making this determination. Information about whether the user meets the pre specified criteria may alternatively be communicated to the ad server or ad placement provider at some later point in time such as when the user clicks on the ad or as part of a periodic batch transmission.

The request for the ad in Event may also include information about the page request received from the user computer such as the URL of the requested page or if applicable the search string supplied by the user. This information may be used by the ad server to select one or more appropriate ads to return. The request in Event may also include a unique transaction ID that can be used by both the ad publisher and the ad placement provider for tracking purposes.

In Event of the ad server selects one or more appropriate ads and returns the selected ads typically in the form of HTML content to the ad publishing site for incorporation into the requested web page. In some embodiments the ad server and or the ad publishing site may alternatively choose not to display any ads if the user is unrecognized . In selecting the ad or ads to be displayed the ad server may optionally take into consideration the outcome of the determination made in Event . For example if the user was not recognized by the ad publishing site the ad server may in some embodiments only select ads for which the advertiser is charged for ad selections by unrecognized users. Thus for example the system of may but need not be implemented such that the only users who are directed to a particular advertiser site are those who meet the criteria for charging the advertiser.

The ad server may at the time of returning the ad in Event determine and record the amount which may be zero that will be charged to the advertiser if the user subsequently clicks on the ad. Alternatively this determination may be made at a later point in time such as after the user clicks on the ad.

The ad or ads selected and returned in Event may also depend upon the page request information if any passed to the ad server . For example if the page request is in the form of a search query submission the ad server may select one or more ads associated with any keywords included in the search query. If the page request is a request for a relatively static web page of the ad publishing web site the ad or ads may be selected based on the content of this web page as previously analyzed by a crawling program.

In Event of the ad publishing site incorporates the ad or ads into the requested web page and returns the web page to the user computer for display. For purposes of illustration it is assumed in this example that only a single ad is included in the web page and that this ad corresponds to the advertiser web site .

In Event of the user selects the ad such as by clicking on a link included in the ad causing the web browser user computer to send a request to the ad server . This request may include an identifier of the advertisement which may be used to look up the corresponding target URL of the advertiser web site . The target URL may alternatively be included in the request message itself. If the user computer has previously accessed the web site of the ad placement provider the request transmitted in Event may also include a cookie associated with this web site.

In Event the ad server logs a request including any cookie received with the request and responds by redirecting the user s web browser to the advertisers site . In Events and the browser responds to the redirect command by retrieving a web page from the advertisers site . In other embodiments the ad may point directly to the advertiser site such that a redirect is not necessary in such embodiments the web page may for example include JavaScript code that causes the browser to notify the ad server of the ad selection event.

In Event which may alternatively occur before the web browser is redirected to the advertiser site the ad server records the charge if any to the advertiser for the ad selection event. As mentioned above the determination of whether how much the advertiser will be charged for the ad selection event may be made either before or after the ad selection event occurs. This determination may be based solely on the outcome of Event as reported by the ad publishing site . Additionally or alternatively the ad server may use a browser cookie received from the user computer in Event together with its own repository of user data to determine the amount the advertiser is to be charged. This may be accomplished by determining whether the user data associated with the cookie satisfies one or more pre selected criteria which may but need not be the same criteria used in Event .

The charge to the advertiser may be recorded in an accounting database that is ultimately used to collect money from the advertisers and to pay the corresponding ad publisher for qualifying pay per click events. Although Event is shown as being performed by the ad server the determination of how much to charge the advertiser and pay the ad publisher may be made by a separate computer system using information collected by the ad server .

The process depicted in may be implemented in a number of different ways so as to maximize advertising effectiveness and or inhibit click fraud. For example in one embodiment the advertisers are only charged for ad selections made by users who are recognized and or are recognized as having previously made on line purchases by the ad publishing site and or the ad server . Because users that engage in click fraud are generally less likely to be recognized e.g. because they commonly disable cookies when engaging click fraud advertisers are less likely to be charged for fraudulent ad selection events. Because users that have previously made on line purchases are more likely to do so in the future the advertiser has increased their advertising effectiveness.

To further reduce click fraud and or maximize advertising effectiveness the process of may be implemented such that the advertiser is charged only in accordance with the stored user data if any associated with the cookie that satisfies one or more selected criteria. For example the advertiser may be charged only if user data stored by the ad publishing website and or the ad server satisfies one or more of the following conditions a a valid credit card is on file for the user b the user has set up an account and has linked this account to a bank account c the user has supplied an e mail address or telephone number that has been verified d the user has engaged in a threshold number of financial transactions purchases rentals etc. in a selected period of time e the domain name portion of the user s e mail address reveals likely employment by an established organization. The foregoing are merely examples of the types of criteria that may be applied other criteria that may be used will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

If multiple different types of user data are taken into consideration such as those listed above an identity score may be generated to quantify the degree to which the user is known or trusted. The identity score may be generated based on user data maintained by the ad publisher user data maintained by the ad placement provider other user data gathered independently etc. The identity data may further be gathered based on some combination of the sources described above. Once generated the identity score for user computer may be compared to one or more thresholds to determine whether or how much the advertiser is to be charged.

Even if the user user computer satisfies the criteria for charging the advertiser the charge to the advertiser may be blocked where the user has previously engaged in certain conduct such as conduct reflective of click fraud. For example the charge the advertiser may be blocked if either 1 the user has clicked on ads of this advertiser more than a threshold number of times e.g. 10 within a selected time period e.g. one hour or 2 the user has clicked on ads displayed on pages of this ad publishing web site more than a threshold number of times during the selected time period. To implement this feature the ad server may keep track of the number of times each recognized user clicks on an ad of a particular advertiser and the number of times each recognized user clicks on an ad on a particular ad publishing site . As another example the advertiser may not be charged if the user has clicked on any ad of this advertiser in the preceding 24 hours.

The process of may also be implemented such that the amount charged to the advertiser is generally proportional to the level or content of the information available about the recognized user. For example the advertiser may be charged the full amount if the user has a valid credit card on file may be charged a lesser amount e.g. 50 of the full amount if the user has set up an account that does not have a valid credit card on file and may be discharged and even lesser amount e.g. 10 of the full amount if the recognized user has not set up an account. Although three user identification tiers are used in this example any number of tiers may be used. For example a number of tiers may be provided based on the total number or the total dollar amount of transactions in a users past purchase history.

Referring again to in some cases the advertiser may not actually operate its own web site but may instead offer goods or services on a web site operated by the ad placement provider. In such a scenario the user s web page may instead of being redirected to an advertiser site be redirected to an advertiser specific web page hosted by the ad placement provider. The process may otherwise be the same as in .

The following examples illustrate some of the ways the system of can be implemented. As a first example suppose that the ad publishing site is a subscription based news site associated with a newspaper. Users wishing to access full text news articles on this news site must set up an account with a user name and password and must supply either credit card information or bank account information for payment of a monthly subscription fee. A user account is treated as being in good standing if monthly subscription fees have been successfully charged to the user s credit card or withdrawn from the user s bank account for at least the preceding two months.

In this first example the ad placement provider could offer advertisers an ad placement program in which their ads are contextually displayed on the story pages of the news site on a pay per click basis but in which the advertiser is charged only when the user computer is recognized as being associated with an account that is in good standing. To implement this ad placement program the news site may be configured with software which determines and notifies the ad server of whether a user computer to which an ad is being served is associated with an account that is in good standing. The ad placement program could alternatively be implemented such that the advertiser pays a reduced fee e.g. 75 off if the good standing criteria is not met.

As a second example suppose that the ad placement provider operates one or more e commerce web sites for selling products hosting online auctions conducting other types of financial transactions etc. In this example a user user account may be treated as being in good standing if for example the user has conducted a financial transaction in the last three months or if the user has conducted some threshold number or dollar amount of transactions since the inception of the account. As with the first example the ad placement provider may refrain from charging the advertiser or may give the advertiser a discount if the user computer that generates an ad selection event is not recognized as being associated with an account that is in good standing.

The system of may also be used in connection with ads displayed on a web site operated by the ad placement provider. For example suppose that the ad placement provider operates a web search engine site and also offers various subscription based services that require users to supply credit card information. In this third example the ad service provider could display keyword based ads in its web search results pages in addition to or as an alternative to syndicating these ads for display on the sites of third party publishers. When a user clicks on an ad displayed on a web search results page the charge to the advertiser may be contingent on whether the user is recognized by and has a credit card on file with the ad placement provider.

In the particular example shown in the determination of the pay per click charge to the advertiser is based solely on user data maintained by the ad placement provider. As discussed below the method of can be augmented or modified to take user data maintained by the ad publisher or some other source into consideration.

Referring to the user computer initially requests a web page from the ad publishing site Event . Instead of retrieving an ad from the ad server as in the embodiment of the ad publishing site responds with a web page Event that directs the browser running on user computer to request one or more ads Event . For example the web page may include a code element such as a URL a JavaScript sequence and or an HTML sequence which causes the browser to send an ad request message to the ad server . The ad publisher may add this code element to those web pages that are to display ads. The ad request message in Event may include information such as one or more keywords or an identifier of the retrieved web page that are used by the ad server to select one or more ads to be displayed. The ad server may also use a cookie retrieved with the ad request to personalize a selection of the ad s for this particular user. The selected ad or ads are returned in Event and displayed in a designated area of the web page. For purposes of illustration it is assumed in this example that only a single ad is displayed.

Events in are generally identical to Events of . Specifically upon clicking on the ad the ad server records the ad selection event including the received cookie if any and redirects the browser to the advertiser web site or alternatively to a web site associated with the advertiser but hosted on another entity s web site . Finally in Event which may be identical to Event of the ad server determines whether the advertiser should be charged for the ad selection event and or determines the amount of the charge. This step may involve using a cookie received in Event or Event to retrieve user data stored in the repository and determining whether this user data satisfies one or more criteria. As in the process flow of the determination of whether how much the advertiser will be charged for the ad selection event may be made when the ad is served Event but may be contingent upon the user subsequently clicking on the ad.

As mentioned above the method shown in may be modified to take into consideration user data maintained by the ad publisher site . This may be accomplished by having the ad publishing site encode information in the ad request coding of the web page delivered in Event . This encoded information may for example indicate whether the user was recognized whether ad publishing site has a credit card on file for this user etc. When the web browser requests the ad in Event this encoded information would be passed to the ad server such that this information may be taken into consideration in determining the pay per click fee to the advertiser.

In embodiments which rely on user data maintained by the ad publisher the ad publishing site can potentially be fraudulently configured to pass erroneous information to the ad server to the benefit of the ad publisher. For example the ad publisher could potentially set up its site to treat unrecognized users as recognized or to treat users who failed to satisfy certain criteria as satisfying such criteria. To protect against this form of fraud the ad placement provider can conduct periodic ad selection transactions or test clicks that do not satisfy the criteria for charging the advertiser. As these transactions are conducted the user information reported by the ad publishing site to the ad server can be monitored to ensure that the transaction is not mischaracterized.

For instance suppose that the pay per click arrangement specifies that the advertiser will not be charged and the ad publisher will not be paid for a transaction in which the user does not have a valid credit card on file with at least one of the ad publisher and the ad placement provider. To test for fraudulent ad publisher activity the ad placement provider can create any number of dummy user accounts on the ad publishing site without supplying any credit card information and can use these accounts to select ads on pages of the ad publishing site . If the ad publishing site erroneously reports that these transactions qualify for pay per click payments the ad placement provider can infer that the ad publisher is engaging in fraudulent activity.

This process of verifying that the ad publishing site is reporting accurate information can be automated via software. For example a set of agent computers can be programmed to set up accounts on various ad publisher sites to periodically click on ads of these sites and to report these ad selection events to the ad server for purposes of verification.

In some cases a user may not satisfy the criteria for charging the advertiser at the time the ad is selected but may satisfy the criteria shortly thereafter. For instance the user may at the time of selecting an ad not yet have an account with either the ad publisher or the ad placement provider. Shortly thereafter the user may set up an account on the ad publisher site and or a web site of the ad placement provider and thus meet the criteria for charging the advertiser. Because the user very likely is not engaging in click fraud in this scenario the advertiser may in some embodiments be charged for the ad selection event even though the user user computer did not satisfy the criteria at the time of the ad selection event.

To implement this feature the ad publishing site and or the ad server may be programmed to write a cookie to the unrecognized user computer during the sequence of interactions shown in such that the user can thereafter be identified by one or both sites as a returning user. If the user returns within a specified time period e.g. within 24 hours of the ad selection event and sets up an account the prior ad selection transaction may be treated as satisfying the criteria for charging the advertiser.

The ad generation interface provides functionality for advertisers to create sponsored link type ad listings and to specify parameters for controlling the placement of such listings. The parameters specified for particular ad listings may for example include one or more keywords keyword phrases topics URLs and or other types of elements used to match ads to web pages. The ad listings are maintained in an ad listing database that is accessed by the ad server . Advertisers may access the ad generation interface over a network such as the Internet via computers that run web browser software.

The ad generation interface may in some embodiments provide an option for the advertiser to specify different bid amounts for different classes of users e.g. recognized unrecognized account holder customer with credit card etc. . With this approach when a user falling in one of the designated user classes clicks on the ad the fee charged to the advertiser may be equal to or determined based on the corresponding bid amount. The bid amounts may also be used to rank ads for display relative to ads from other advertisers.

Rather than specifying multiple bid amounts as in the advertiser may be prompted to specify a single bid amount per ad or per ad keyword combination. This bid amount may control the fee charged to the advertiser for ad selections by users meeting one or more published criteria. Additionally the advertisers may be informed that higher bids will automatically be allocated to users having the past purchase history. Accordingly those advertisers that bid the higher amounts will be provided access to those users that are more likely to make purchases based on the advertisement. The advertiser may also be informed that ad selections by all other users are free to the advertiser.

Referring now to is an illustration of a web based interface that allows an advertiser to place different bids for different classes of users where the user classes are differentiated by parameters associated with the users past purchasing history. Interface includes a product type selection input field configured to allow an advertiser to select from a predetermined listing of possible product categories. Each product type may be associated with a set of parameter listings associated with the product type. For example where an advertiser has selected a product type of MP3 players as shown in interface includes a first parameter listing which includes a field to enter a bid for a user that has previously purchased an MP3 player a second parameter listing which includes a field to enter a bid for a user that has previously purchased an electronic device a third parameter listing which includes a field to enter a bid for a user that has made previously made a purchase from a specific manufacturer of MP3 players a fourth parameter listing which includes a field to enter a bid for a user that has made more than 1000.00 in online purchases and a fifth parameter listing which includes a field to enter a bid for a user that has made more than 100 total purchases on line.

Each of the parameter listings may be configured to allow advertisers to make their bids based on a parameter that is associated with users that are particularly valuable to an advertiser. For example an indication that a user has previously made an online purchase may be a significant indicator of whether the purchaser is more likely to make an online purchase in the future. Accordingly an advertiser may bid a larger amount for a user that has previous made an online purchase. Similarly a user who has previously purchased an item from a specific category would be more likely to purchase from an advertiser offering accessories for items within that category. For example a user that had recently purchased an MP3 player would be more likely to make a subsequent purchase from an advertiser offering MP3 player accessories such as headphones carrying cases memory cards etc. Advantageously submitting bids based on the parameter of interest allows an advertiser to implement more targeted advertising. Providing multiple input fields allows an advertiser to enter multiple bid amounts according to the differing value an advertiser associates with each parameter listing.

Although exemplary parameter listings are shown and described above with reference to interface it should be understood that other parameter listings may be provided which include fields for bidding on other types of parameters. The parameters may include different parameter listing types different amounts associated with each parameter listing etc. Exemplary additional parameters may relate to a geographic location associated with past purchases for the user the frequency of past purchases for the user the timing of past purchases for the user etc.

According to an alternative embodiment each of the parameter listings shown in may include additional input fields configured to receive parameter detail or threshold information associated with the listing. For example third parameter listing may further include an input field configured to receive an identification of the specific manufacturer of MP3 players and fourth parameter listing may further include an input field configured to receive the dollar amount threshold associated with the online purchases.

Referring now to an illustration of a web based bidding interface that is configured to allow an advertiser to bid on different tiers of past purchasing scores is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A past purchasing score may be a numeric value indicative of a likelihood that the user will complete an online purchase based at least in part on the user s historical purchasing behavior. Permitting the advertiser to submit a bid based on a past purchasing score provides a convenient way for the advertiser to submit a bid based on many potential parameters at once rather than submitting a bid based on each of the parameters individually.

Ad placement system may be configured to generate the past purchasing score. The past purchasing score may be generated based on any of a variety of factors such as those associated with parameter listings describe above with reference to .

The past purchasing score may be enhanced with information that is not necessarily associated with past purchasing behavior but may be an indicator of future purchasing behavior. Exemplary enhancing factors may include information associated with the user such as a user s employer a user s home ZIP code a user s age a user s sex etc. The enhancement factors may be any type of information indicative of the likelihood that a user will execute a particular online purchase at present or in the future.

A past purchasing score may also be enhanced by tailoring the score to the identity of the advertiser that is currently accessing the bidding interface . For example a past purchasing score i.e. the likelihood that a purchaser will complete an online purchase may change depending on the type of goods or services offered for sale by the advertiser. For example a user who has previously purchased an MP3 player may have a higher past purchasing score when the user is displayed an advertisement from an advertiser of MP3 player accessories compared to when the user is displayed an advertisement from an advertiser of insurance products.

The past purchasing score may be further enhanced based on a projected value to an advertiser. The projected value may be determined based on the identity of the advertiser the nature of the advertisement the nature of the ad publishing site etc. The projected value may be calculated to indicate a likely value to the advertiser of a winning bid for users having a particular past purchasing score. The projected value may for example be dependent on the type of business of the advertiser. For example a projected value for a high end jeweler may be different from the projected value for an advertiser of novelty goods. The high end jeweler may have a higher incidence of purchases where user is a past purchaser or may be able to generate more revenue from every completed online transaction.

Bidding interface may be configured to include a plurality of input fields which are each associated with a different tier of past purchasing score. Although only four tiers are shown according to this exemplary embodiment alternative embodiments may include as many tiers as desired.

According to an alternative embodiment a past purchasing score may be bid upon in the form of a range instead of discrete threshold values. For example a past purchasing score may be a value between 1 to 100. An advertiser may provide a base bid amount and indicate a past purchasing premium range that the advertiser is willing to pay based on the past purchasing score. For example an advertiser may provide a base bid amount of 10 cents and a past purchasing premium of up to an additional 10 cents based on the past purchasing score. The past purchasing score may be multiplied by the past purchasing premium to determine the fee that is due based on the user s past purchasing history. Accordingly if an advertisement for the advertiser providing the bid and range described above is displayed to a user having a past purchasing score of 50 out of 100 the advertiser pays the 10 cent base fee and a 5 cent premium fee based on the user s purchasing history.

According to an exemplary embodiment past purchasing premium selection may also be provided as an option in connection with a standard keyword bidding interface. That is an advertiser submitting a standard keyword bid may further be presented with an option to provide a past purchasing premium range. Accordingly a single bidding interface can be used to implement keyword bidding with or without past purchasing premium ranges making the bidding process easier for the advertiser.

Bidding interface may further include a suggested bid button in a column that will automatically populate input fields associated with the various past purchasing scores in column . A suggested bid may be calculated based on a combination of the past purchasing score and historical data indicating the amount of bids that have previously been required for a given past purchasing score. Alternatively a suggested bid may be displayed automatically upon access of bidding interface . According to further alternative embodiments the suggested bid button in column may be replaced with a data field which conveys to the advertiser the premium value of a user having a past purchasing history. For example column may include a value indicating a premium that an advertiser should expect to pay for a user having a past purchasing history at each particular tier.

Bidding interface may further be configured to include a detailed information button for each past purchasing score in a column . Each detailed information button when clicked may cause a pop up window to appear showing attributes statistics or other information associated with any particular past purchasing score. For example a pop up window may display the type of users that will be presented with the advertisement if the advertiser submits a winning bid.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a method of providing an advertisement based on an advertiser bid that was submitted based at least in part on a past purchasing score is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The method may be implemented by ad placement system .

In a step actual user information is received by ad placement system . The user information includes information about an actual user visiting an ad publishing site . Accordingly the user information may be associated with a request for an advertisement to be displayed to the user by ad publishing site . The user information may be received from an ad publishing site in conjunction with the request for an advertisement to be displayed to the user. Alternatively the user information may be received internally from user accounts repository or web server system . Further the user information may be gathered and or augmented from any other source such as identification of the user s IP address identification of the user s computer identification of the user s email address publicly available information etc.

After receiving the information ad placement system may be configured to generate a past purchasing score for the particular user in a step . The past purchasing score may be generated based on any one or more of the factors described above. Where the user s past purchasing history cannot be determined the user may be treated as unrecognized or as having no past purchasing history. The past purchasing history may be further augmented by any available additional information regarding the user s past purchasing history. The additional information may include any of a wide variety of information similar to the information used to calculate the past purchasing scores as described above with reference to .

The user s past purchasing score may be compared to the past purchasing score tiers in a step . In comparing the user s past purchasing score or to the past purchasing score tiers ad placement system can determine the advertisers that have placed a bid for a user matching the user s information and the advertiser s corresponding bid amounts.

Ad placement system may be configured to select the advertisement of the advertiser that will produce the best result e.g. maximum revenue in a step . The advertiser that made the highest bid may not be the advertiser will produce the best result. The best result may be determined based on the bid amount as well as additional factors such as the likelihood that the user will actually click on the ad the quality of the advertisement etc.

Following display of the advertisement ad placement system may be configured to determine an advertising fee that is payable by the advertiser where the advertising fee is based in part on the advertiser s bid amount in a step . Given that the fee is based on the bid amount and the bid amount is based on the past purchase history of the user the fee charged to the advertiser is based on the past purchase history of the user. The fee may be further based on any of a variety of factors such as whether the user actually clicked on the ad whether a transaction occurred etc.

Although the above described steps are described as being performed in a certain order by a single entity it should be understood that the method may include more less and or a different ordering of the steps and be performed by any number of entities. Further although the above method describes using the received user information in the context of the past purchasing scores of it should be understood that the received information may also be used in the context of the parameter listings of and or the input fields of . Further the system may be configured to determine the past purchasing score using any of a variety of factors and or methods.

Although three types of bidding interface are shown the bidding interface may be varied in any of a variety of ways such as by allowing an advertiser to distinguish between user data maintained by the ad publisher and user data maintained by the ad placement provider. Other alternative embodiments may include allowing an advertiser to bid according to the specific keywords bid according to the user s location etc.

Referring again to the ad hosting interface provides functionality for a web site operator to enroll as an ad hosting entity or publisher and to configure one or more of its web pages to enable ads to be displayed thereon. The publisher can generate revenue by publishing ads together with content such as news product reviews tutorials educational information or message boards. If the publisher operates an Internet search engine site the ads may be displayed on search results pages and may be selected based on search criteria entered by users. The ad hosting interface may provide various options for the publishers to control the types of ads that are displayed on their respective web sites . An application programming interface API for communicating with the ad server may be made available to the ad publishers for purposes of implementing the method of .

The reporting interface provides functionality for reporting the results of ad campaigns. Advertisers may access this interface to evaluate the respective ad campaigns and ad publishers may use the interface to evaluate the respective ad publishing strategies. For example reporting interface may be configured to display the number of users that clicked on the advertiser s advertisements that actually made a purchase. The current purchase information for users that clicked on an advertiser s advertisements may be compared to the past purchase information associated with the users to illustrate advantages associated with users having past purchase information. For example such information may be used to perform a cost benefit analysis of submitting higher bids of users with certain past purchase history characteristics versus submitting lower bids for all users with or without past purchase histories . Advantageously reporting interface may be used to illustrate the benefit derived by the advertisers of targeting users having a past purchasing history.

The data used by the reporting interface may be maintained in a performance accounting database . This information may be obtained based on purchases made from web publishers advertisers public information gathered information etc.

The ad server shown in may operate according to the method of and or the method of . The ad server includes an ad selection program module which dynamically selects ads to display on the web pages of ad publishing sites as described above. In addition the ad server includes a click through tracking accounting program module that is responsible for processing ad selection events and for recording resulting charges in the performance accounting database .

The ad server also includes a user data assessment program module that is responsible for analyzing user data retrieved from the ad placement provider s user accounts repository . As illustrated this repository is populated with account data collected by one or more user enrollment web sites such as an online sales site a DVD rental site a subscription based news site or a social networking site. These user enrollment sites may be operated by the ad placement provider or by a partner or affiliate of the ad placement provider. The criteria applied by user data assessment module to determine whether and or how much to charge advertisers for ad selection events can vary from one advertiser to another and or from one ad publisher to another.

The web server system and the ad server may each be implemented using one or more and typically many physical servers. The repository in and depicted in can be implemented using relational databases flat files and or other types of data repositories.

Here and throughout terms such as user advertiser publisher and so forth are to be understood in the broadest possible sense. By way of illustration and not of limitation an advertiser may be an individual or a commercial government or non profit entity may be directly responsible for placing an advertisement announcement message or the like or may be a broker reseller or intermediary for another s advertisements announcements messages or the like may be advertising for its own products and services or may be advertising on behalf of another may be represented by a human agent or by a web service software agent or other programmatic construct etc. Likewise a publisher is not restricted to persons or entities who purport to be in the on line publishing business or any other kind of publishing business nor to entities who have complete or even primary control over the content of particular websites but rather is used in a more general sense. In the context of Internet based advertising for example publisher includes any person or entity responsible directly or indirectly for putting content on the Internet whether by hosting or sponsoring websites posting pages frames graphics applets blogs audiovisual content etc. on their own or others websites providing web services that can source content for websites or in any other manner. Still further a user may be an individual who visits and views or otherwise perceives the content of a web site and pages therein via a web browser or other client software program running on a personal computer wireless handheld device or the like but may also be for example a corporate or other entity whose servers access published web content and advertisements by invoking web services through appropriate application programming interfaces APIs a user may or may not be the intended or actual end consumer of a product or service that is the subject of an advertisement etc. In sum persons of skill in the art will appreciate that a wide variety of actors more than can be conveniently set forth here can play the roles of advertiser publisher and user for purposes of the present invention. It will be further appreciated that the selfsame person or entity may be both publisher and advertiser or both publisher and user or both advertiser and user or even all three depending on the context. In a similar vein and as will be apparent from the foregoing terms such as web page website and so forth are used to give specific illustrative examples of settings in which on line content and advertisements can be presented to and perceived by users. Such examples are not intended to be limiting and persons of skill in the art will appreciate that many other such settings now known or yet to be developed may be suitable to the practice of the present invention in specific embodiments.

It should be noted that although flow charts may be provided herein to show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs. It is to be understood that any method steps as recited herein e.g. in the claims may be performed by a configuration utility e.g. Java based executed by a computing device based on input by a user. Of course according to various alternative embodiments any suitable configuration utility application system computing device etc. may be used to execute implement and or perform method steps as recited in this disclosure including the claims .

The invention is described above with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the present invention. However describing the invention with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations associated with features shown in the drawings. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated machine readable media provide nonvolatile storage of machine executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

