---

title: Systems and methods for automated employee resource delivery
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for automated employee resource delivery in a variety of situations that may commonly arise in modern large company settings. Employee identification data may be identified, and a subset of such data that is required for release of a particular resource may be identified. An automatic notification may be generated for the resource owner, where the automatic notification comprises the required subset of employee identification data. This approach is combined with one or more techniques for ascertaining the resources an employee will require and updating information regarding the resources employees are using.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069180&OS=08069180&RS=08069180
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08069180
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060829
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 512 979 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 512 808 both filed on Aug. 29 2006 and also entitled Systems and Methods for Automated Employee Resource Delivery. 

Most companies provide resources to employees to maximize their productive potential. For example in a modern office environment an employee may be provided with a workstation and a computer that is equipped with a variety of hardware and software. The employee may also have network access to additional hardware and software. The employee may be provided with access permissions as necessary to utilize resources such as email accounts fax machines printers and network drive space. The employee may be further equipped with resources such as a telephone building access badge keys cell phones and so forth.

Although a variety of software products are available for assigning and scheduling human resources i.e. employee time and expertise that is needed to accomplish a complex project such products neglect the tools employees may need to extend their productivity. Instead such products simply assume that a company has provided its employees with the tools they need to be as effective as possible.

Meanwhile the resources provided to employees are typically controlled by a diverse set of resource owners. For example a workstation building access badge may be owned by a building maintenance department while a computer is owned by an Information Technology IT department. A telephone may be owned by a human resources department while access permissions to various computing resources may be owned by the business units that maintain and manage such resources. It may fall on a new employee the employee s manager or a person with appropriate knowledge of company practices to equip employees with the resources they need.

In a large company resource owners become spread out and develop their own unique protocols for accepting and reviewing resource requests. Some require an approval from a manager or other person of appropriate authority. Some require information from the requesting employee such as the employee s employee ID number username and password social security number and so forth. Satisfying the demands of the various resource owners in order to acquire all the resources an employee needs becomes a difficult and time consuming task that presents an efficiency drag on the business.

In light of the above mentioned difficulties systems and methods are needed for fast identification of the resources employees should have and for providing resources from a disparate group of resource owners. This would increase efficiency as employees enter leave and transform within a company.

In consideration of the above identified shortcomings of the art the present disclosure provides systems and methods for automated employee resource delivery in a variety of situations that may commonly arise in modern large company settings for example when a new employee joins a workforce when an employee request a new resource and when an employee changes functions such as by promotion or lateral transfer within a company. In general employee identification data may be identified and a subset of such data that is required for release of a particular resource may be identified. An automatic notification may be generated for the resource owner where the automatic notification comprises the required subset of employee identification data. This approach is combined with one or more techniques for ascertaining the resources an employee will require and updating information regarding the resources employees are using as described in greater detail below.

Certain specific details are set forth in the following description and figures to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the invention. Certain well known details often associated with computing and software technology are not set forth in the following disclosure however to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the various embodiments of the invention. Further those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that they can practice other embodiments of the invention without one or more of the details described below. Finally while various methods are described with reference to steps and sequences in the following disclosure the description as such is for providing a clear implementation of embodiments of the invention and the steps and sequences of steps should not be taken as required to practice this invention.

In general the below description begins with exemplary methods that may be implemented in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Thereafter computer hardware software and networking components are described that may be used to implement such methods or to provide system and computer readable media embodiments the invention.

The act of receiving the new employee identification data according to step may be accomplished in one embodiment by a computer. For example a company employee in a human resource department may collect the data from a new employee and subsequently enter such data into a terminal. The terminal in such an embodiment receives the new employee identification data as may a central company database that is updated from the terminal.

The method of may further comprise receiving a resource list . A resource list is a list of resources that the employee will need to perform his or her function in the company. A huge variety of resources are utilized by modern employees depending on the work they do and the resources available to their employer. In an office environment as mentioned above common resources include a workstation location a computer equipped with a variety of hardware and software as necessary network access to additional hardware and software access permissions as necessary to utilize resources such as email accounts fax machines printers and network drive space a telephone a building access badge keys cell phones and so forth. In a construction environment an employee may receive tool belt tape measure hammer drill hard hat safety goggles work gloves specialized clothing and the like. The resources that are necessary in a particular setting cannot be exhaustively described herein and such considerations are left to the particular needs of an implementing organization.

Different employees serve different functions and will accordingly need different resources. Thus a resource list is not an exhaustive list of all resources any employee may need but rather a list that is tailored to the particular needs of the employee in question. Embodiments may provide a variety of approaches for selecting an appropriate resource list and for keeping resource lists that remain up to date for continued use within a company as new employees join leave and transform within the company. provide a variety of exemplary approaches for organizing resource lists and for assigning resource lists to employees in a disciplined fashion. See below for a detailed description of these figures.

An appropriately configured resource list according to this disclosure comprises entries with at least four fields a resource description a resource owner an electronic communications address for requesting the resource and a specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource. Additional fields may be included as desired to meet additional needs and requirements in particular settings.

The act of receiving a resource list according to step may be accomplished in one embodiment by a computer. For example a company employee in a human resource department may select an appropriate resource list for a new employee for example by selecting a resource list from a collection of different resource lists. The act of selecting an appropriate resource list causes the computer in question to receive the resource list or at least an identification of the resource list which also satisfies step . A central company database may also receive the resource list or an identification thereof when such database is updated from an individual terminal.

The method of may further comprise automatically sending a resource request to the electronic communications address that is provided in a corresponding entry in the resource list. For example a computer that received employee identification data and also a resource list may perform this step. Such computer may use an appropriate algorithm to walk through the entries in a received resource list and request each resource for the new employee.

An exemplary algorithm for doing so may include for example appropriate logic and subsystems to identify an entry in the resource list identify the specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource identify the electronic communications address for requesting the resource extract the subject employee s identification data from the employee identification data and generate an electronic notification directed to such electronic communications address where in one embodiment the notification includes only the employee identification data that is required for release of the resource. The algorithm may also execute the sending of the notification.

The electronic notification may be in one embodiment an email. In this case the electronic communications address would preferably be an email address or email alias. It need not however be the email address of the resource owner. In many situations the resource owner may delegate satisfaction of resource requests to another while the owner may remain behind the scenes for approval of the request and management of the resource. In additional embodiments the electronic notification may be a post to a resource owner s web page a call to an Application Programming Interface API provided by the resource owner a file that is saved to a location accessible by the resource owner and the like.

A next step in may comprise identifying employee identification data associated with said existing employee . This is similar to step in except that the employee identification data presumably already exists in the company s data stores and so need only be identified or retrieved. The employee identification data may be identified for example by an automated process that receives the existing employee request or by a human operator that reads the existing employee request after it is received.

A next step in may comprise identifying a specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource . Here the resource may be associated with one or more existing resource lists in which case the specification of a subset of employee identification data may be usefully pulled from an existing resource list. In another embodiment the specification of a subset of employee identification data may be recovered from the resource owner. For example resource owners may publish on a company intranet a specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for requesting their resource. In this case an automated process that may have identified employee identification data may also retrieve the specification of a subset of employee identification data from the published location. Resource owners may also save their specifications of a subset of employee identification data to a centrally accessible file or such information may be otherwise kept within a centralized information clearinghouse.

Step comprises identifying an electronic communications address for requesting the resource and may optionally be performed according to the same approaches available for step . In short the electronic communications address may be pulled from an existing resource list or may be recovered from information that is published by the resource owner.

The method of may further comprise automatically sending a resource request to the electronic communications address that is identified in step . Similar to step in a computer that has identified employee identification data the required subset of employee information to request the resource and the appropriate electronic communications address may perform this step. Such computer may use an appropriate algorithm to request the requested resource for the existing employee.

Having requested the resource it may remain unknown in this scenario whether approval will be granted by the resource owner. If approval is granted an appropriate corresponding resource list must be updated so that the resource lists remain useful in determining appropriate resources for other employees. Thus step comprises receiving an approval from a resource owner. In fully automated embodiments an automated process that sent the resource request pursuant to step may also receive an appropriately formatted approval in step . The approval can operate as implicit agreement to also deliver the requested resource to the existing employee as well as any other existing employees who may also be deemed to be entitled to the resource in view of the newly granted approval.

A resource list may be automatically updated with a new entry for the newly approved resource . The resource list that is updated depends on how the resource lists are configured e.g. in an embodiment such as illustrated in described further below an employee role resource list may be updated. In an embodiment such as illustrated in described further below an employee resource list may be updated. In an embodiment such as illustrated in described further below a manager resource list may be updated. In an embodiment such as illustrated in described further below a workstation location resource list may be updated.

An exemplary algorithm for updating a resource list according to step may comprise for example appropriate logic and subsystems to identify a resource list that is associated with the requesting employee and to update that resource list with a new entry comprising the resource description resource owner electronic communications address for requesting the resource and specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource.

The exemplary method of may first comprise receiving a request for existing employee resource modification . Such a request may be sent by the employee themselves or by the department or new manager to which the employee has transferred. The request may be received by a computer for example a computer that is operated by a human resources department or employee who is otherwise responsible for centralized resource tracking.

This request may comprise information that identifies the new position of the employee in a variety of ways. In one embodiment the request may identify a new employee role. In another embodiment the request may identify another existing employee who performs a function that is most closely similar to the function that the transferred employee will provide. In another embodiment the request may identify a new manager of the transferred employee. In another embodiment the request may identify a new workstation location for the transferred employee. The request may but need not identify the former role of the subject employee because presumably the former role is data that is known and may be easily accessed.

Step comprises identifying employee identification data and may be performed in an identical fashion as step from .

Step comprises identifying a first resource list associated with the existing employee. This first resource list is the list of resources to which the employee was entitled in his or her previous position. The resource list comprises entries comprising resource descriptions resource owners electronic communications addresses and specifications of subset of employee identification data as described above. In one embodiment the first resource list may be identified by determining a resource list associated with a previous employee role associated with the employee. In another embodiment the resource list may be identified by determining a resource list that is directly associated with the employee. In another embodiment the first resource list may be identified by determining a resource list associated with a previous manager associated with the employee. In another embodiment the first resource list may be identified by determining a resource list associated with a previous workstation associated with the employee.

Step comprises automatically sending a resource recovery request to a first electronic communications address i.e. to an electronic communications address listed on said first resource list. Resource recovery requests may be sent to each of the electronic communications addresses on the first resource list so that the resource owners may recall their resources from the transferred employee.

The issue of overlapping resources i.e. resources that the transferred employee needed in their previous position and will also need in their new position can be dealt with in a variety of ways. In one embodiment a computer may compare the first resource list with a second resource list and send resource recovery requests to only those electronic communications addresses associated with resources that the employee will no longer need. Similarly resource requests may be sent to only those electronic communications addresses associated with resources that the employee will need in their new position.

In another embodiment resource recovery requests may be sent to all electronic communications address on a first resource list and resource requests may be sent to all electronic communications addresses on a second resource list. The owners of the resources can determine on their own whether to recall a previous resource and send a new one or to simply allow the employee to keep the previous resource.

An appropriately configured algorithm can send resource recovery requests in either of the embodiments above by identifying the electronic communications addresses in the first resource list and sending a recovery request to such electronic communications addresses.

Step comprises receiving a second resource list. As with step in this may comprise selecting an appropriate resource list for the transferred employee for example by selecting a resource list from a collection of different resource lists. A drop down listing of available resource lists may be presented for easy selection within a user interface. The act of selecting an appropriate resource list causes the computer in question to receive the resource list or at least an identification of the resource list which also satisfies step . A central company database may also receive the resource list or an identification thereof when such database is updated from an individual terminal.

The exemplary method of may finally comprise automatically sending a resource request to a second electronic communications address i.e. an electronic communications address on the new second resource list associated with the transferred employee. Here resource requests are sent to the various electronic communications addresses associated with the resources to which the transferred employee is newly entitled.

As with step in a computer that received employee identification data and also the second resource list may perform this step. Such computer may use an appropriate algorithm to walk through the entries in the second resource list and request each resource for the transferred employee.

An exemplary algorithm for doing so may include for example appropriate logic and subsystems to identify an entry in the resource list identify the specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource identify the electronic communications address for requesting the resource extract the subject employee s identification data from the employee identification data and generate an electronic notification directed to such electronic communications address where in one embodiment the notification includes only the employee identification data that is required for release of the resource. The algorithm may also execute the sending of the notification.

All roles can be compiled into a digitized drop down list of selectable roles that is accessible for example to a human resource department when a new employee is hired. For example consider a scenario in which a new employee is hired as represented by the dotted box in . It may be determined that the new employee will have role . A resource list may be associated with role such that upon determining the appropriate role the new employee may be assigned resources according to the associated resource list using the method of . Similarly an employee that is transferred to the position associated with the dotted box may be assigned resources according to role by applying the method of . If any employee in role requests a new resource all employees in role may receive the resource if approved.

An exemplary resource list associated with role is illustrated at the bottom of . the resource list comprises four fields a resource description a resource owner an electronic communications address for requesting the resource and a specification of a subset of employee identification data that is required for release of the resource. The resource list may comprise any number of entries with these fields. The entries correspond to all of the various resources to which the employee of that role is entitled.

Similarly if an employee is transferred to a new function a different employee whose current function is now most similar to the transferred employee s new function may be selected and the transferred employee may be assigned the same resources thereof. Any employee that wishes to modify their set of resources may do so according to the method of . An updated resource list is thus kept for each employee allowing any new or transferred employee to immediately be assigned appropriate resources for their new position by selecting an appropriate most similar existing employee.

A new employee may be assigned a resource list by selected e.g. from a drop down menu of all managers in a company the manager that the new employee will work under. A resource list such as that provided at the bottom of the figure may be associated with manager and may provide entries for each and every resource that employees may need. Similarly an employee who is transferred to a position under manager may be assigned resources from a resource list associated with manager . If any employee requests a new resource the resource list associated with may be updated according to the method of and all employees may receive the requested resource if approved.

A resource list may be associated with an entire company headquarters with whole buildings as well as with areas in a building and individual workstations . In one embodiment resource lists at a more specific location such as may inherit any items on a resource list associated with a more general location such as area as well as building and headquarters . In this way some uniformity in resources given to employees may be achieved on a location oriented basis while specific tailoring of resources is also an option.

Note that workstation location may also be included in employee identification data for example as in entry . Including workstation location in employee identification data is considered a useful embodiment because it allows resource owners to deliver resources directly to the employee s location. Employee identification number is also a useful item to include as it may be used to configure a variety of the resources assigned to an employee.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with an aspect of the invention each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework of provided in and the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

