---

title: Serial correlator architecture
abstract: An apparatus for correlating multibit first and second words includes a multiplexer for selecting one bit at a time of the second word, and applying the bit to a multiplier which receives the first word, for generating a product by inverting or noninverting the first word. The product is applied to an adder and is added to a delayed parallel signal to produce a sum signal. The sum signal is delayed in an amount related to the number of bits in the first word to produce the delayed parallel signal. A plurality of such apparatuses are cascaded, with the bits of the second word applied in subsets to the apparatuses, and the partial correlations applied as input words to the next apparatus in the cascade.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941472&OS=07941472&RS=07941472
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07941472
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060424
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant ltn492cdvt00 under program COTS DV. The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

A correlator architecture performs correlation between digital signals using a particular architecture including multiplexers and multipliers.

Correlation is widely used in signal processing to help to identify the presence of particular signal sequences. One form of correlation is described in the context of a radar system in U.S. Pat. No. 5 376 939 issued Dec. 27 1994 in the name of Urkowitz.

Correlation processing is described generally by the equation 1 and discrete correlation can be represented by

Structure of illustrates a portion of a prior art correlator structure which is well adapted to being fabricated on or in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . ASICs are advantageous in that the desired structure can be selected and optimized in a relatively small integrated circuit. However ASICs have long design and fabrication cycles and can be expensive especially if the number of units to be fabricated is small.

Structure of illustrates a portion of a correlator structure which is well adapted for fabrication on an ASIC. In a source of first signal produces parallel signal designated Y and applies it by way of a path to an input port of a correlator illustrated as a block . A source of second signal produces parallel signal on a path for application to a second input port of correlator block . Correlator correlates the first signals Y with the second signals X and produces at its output port a signal Rxy representing the correlation.

In operation of the arrangement of a new Y digital word is applied from register to bus at each clock cycle. At each clock cycle the bits of a new X digital word are applied to the various bit input ports of multibit port or path and a multiplication occurs in the multipliers of set . The product is applied to the adders of set and is added during the same clock cycle. This produces a sum at the output of each adder or summer of set of adders. At the next clock cycle the registers of set each transfer the sum from its associated lower numbered summer to the augend input port of the next higher numbered adder. All registers are clocked at the same time. Parallel data Y changes on a clock to clock basis but the X value does not change unless or until a different correlation is to be processed. All multiplications and additions occur on a clock to clock basis and the intermediate results are stored in registers on a clock to clock basis. Hence the resultant output Roccurs on a clock to clock basis in a continuous stream until all Y values have been processed. On each clock cycle the resultant output is the correlated output of Y to X after the first initial N clocks. As an example if N is 8 it will take 8 clock cycles for valid correlated output to propagate to the resultant output. That is correlated output appears at port only after the first N clock cycles have passed.

In some computation intensive applications the words being processed may contain thousands of bits. Such large numbers of processing steps can be accommodated in a reasonable number of ASICs. However in some contexts it may be desirable to use Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs gate programmable arrays instead of ASICs. Field Programmable Gate Arrays are advantageous in that they are commercially made in large numbers and are both inexpensive and reliable. A disadvantage of Field Programmable Gate Arrays is that by nature each integrated circuit contains elements which are useful for the desired function and also contains elements which may be less useful or not at all useful. Consequently more Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs may be required in order to perform correlations with words containing large numbers of bits than is desirable for reasons of bulk and interconnection complexity.

An apparatus for correlating multibit first and second signals includes a multiplexer including a multibit input port coupled to receive the second signal and also including a single bit output port for selectively coupling to its output port one bit at a time of the multibit second signal. A multiplier includes an output port a first multibit input port and second single bit input port. The single bit input port is coupled to the output port of the multiplexer. The multiplier is coupled for receiving the first digital signals in parallel form for controllably coupling to its output port a multibit product signal in response to the one bit of a second signal applied to its second input port. The multiplier in another embodiment multiplies the words of the first signal by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal applied to its second input port has a logical value of 1 and by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal applied to its second input port has a logical value of 0. The multiplier in one embodiment multiplies the words of the first signal by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal applied to its second input port has a logical value of 1 and by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal applied to its second input port has a logical value of 0. The apparatus further includes summing means including an input port coupled to the output port of the multiplier for summing the multibit product signals received from the multiplier with delayed parallel signals to thereby produce summed parallel signals representing the correlated output. A delay means or arrangement is coupled to receive the summed parallel signals for delaying the summed parallel signals for a number of clock cycles equal to the number of bits in the digital first signals for thereby producing the delayed parallel signals.

In a particular embodiment of the arrangement means are provided for coupling the words of the second signal to the first input port of the multiplier. The means may comprise a register clocked rate Clk N lower than that of the multiplexer.

A particular embodiment of the arrangement further comprises a register having an input port coupled to receive the summed parallel signals representing the correlated output.

In another embodiment the means for coupling the words of the first signal to the first input port of the multiplier comprises a first register clocked at a rate lower than that of the first multiplexer. This embodiment further comprises a clocked second register having an input port coupled to receive the summed parallel signals representing the correlated output with the second register being clocked at the same rate as the first register. Initialization or cascading of the correlation apparatus may be provided by an embodiment which further comprises second multiplexing means coupled to the summing means for applying an initialization value to the summing means.

A method for correlating first and second multibit signals includes the step of applying the first signals to a first input port of a multiplier where the multiplier includes a single bit second input port and an output port for a period of at least N clock cycles. The bits of the multibit second signal are gated to the single bit second input port of the multiplier for sequentially multiplying the first input signal by the individual bits of the second input signal for thereby producing multiplied multibit signals. The multiplied multibit signals are applied to a first input port of an adder which adder includes a second input port for receiving delayed signals and also includes an output port at which added signals are generated. The added signals are delayed by a number of clock cycles at least equal to the number of bits in the first multibit signal to thereby produce delayed signals. The delayed signals are applied to the second input port of the adder whereby the added signals include the result of the correlation. The results of the correlation are extracted from the added signals.

An apparatus according to an aspect of the invention is for correlating M bit first and second signals. The apparatus comprises a plurality of N bit correlators where N is less than M. Each of the N bit correlators of the plurality comprises

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for correlating first and second multibit signals. The method comprises the step of applying the multibit first signals to a first input port of a multiplier which includes a single bit second input port and an output port. The method further includes the step of while the multibit first signals are applied to the first input port of the multiplier sequentially gating the bits of the multibit second signal to the single bit second input port of the multiplier for sequentially multiplying the first input signal by the individual bits of the second input signal for thereby producing multiplied multibit signals. The multiplied multibit signals are applied to a first input port of an adder which adder includes a second input port for receiving delayed signals and an output port at which added signals are generated representing the sum of the multiplied multibit signals with the delayed signals. The added signals are delayed by a number of clock cycles at least equal to the number of bits in the first multibit signal to thereby produce the delayed signals. The delayed signals are applied to the second input port of the adder whereby the added signals include the result of the correlation. A particular mode of this method comprises the step of extracting the result of the correlation from the added signals.

The arrangement of accepts the multibit Y words from a path at a register R which is clocked or gated by a clock signal CLK N which occurs once every N CLK cycles as illustrated in and . At each gating cycle the multibit Y word is gated onto a multibit bus and applied to a multiplier . Multiplier is similar to a multiplier of set of in that it includes a multibit input port and a single bit input port and it either inverts or noninverts passes unchanged the multibit Y signal applied to the multibit input port depending upon the state of the single bit signal applied to its single bit input port . The multiplied multibit signal produced by multiplier of is applied over a multibit path to a first or addend input port of an adder or summer designated . Adder adds the addend applied to its first input port to the augend applied by way of a multibit path to its second input port and produces a summed signal at its output port . The summed signal produced by adder includes the correlation signal which is applied to a clocked output register R which clocks the correlation signal Rfrom an output port to a user apparatus not illustrated by way of a path .

The summed signal produced by adder of is also applied to a delay circuit designated generally as which includes a plurality of N clocked registers . . . . The delay circuit delays the summed signal produced by adder by N clock cycles and applies the summed signal multibit bus by way of a multibit multiplexer . Multiplexer is used for two different purposes. The first purpose is to initialize one section the illustrated section of the correlator by applying a zero to bus at the beginning of each correlation. The second purpose is to initialize the illustrated section of the correlator when it is used in a cascade with other such sections for handling multibit words having numbers of bits greater than N.

Correlator of also includes a further multiplexer designated . Multiplexer is clocked at the CLK rate for applying one bit at a time of the multibit X signal to second input port of multiplier . Thus multiplier sequentially multiplies the same N bit Y word by each bit of the X word to produce a product for application to adder . After the first N CLK cycles of operation the delayed sum signal applied by way of bus to second input port of adder in general has a nonzero value.

The step by step operation can be understood by reference to in conjunction with the CLK and CLK N clock signals of and respectively. illustrates the system clock CLK and illustrates the reduced rate clock CLK N. The CLK pulses are numbered in two different ways a by absolute number of cycles starting from zero value that is starting at 0 and proceeding monotonically to some number MN where M is large and b modulus N that is a repeating cycle of 0 1 2 3 . . . N 1 N . Initially that is at CLK 0 all registers are cleared in the arrangement of . During Clock Cycle of and corresponding to the 0occurrence of CLK of and the 0occurrence of CLK N of the value at the output port of adder is stored in register . Also during the 0CLK N clock cycle a new multibit value of Y is stored in register and becomes available on bus multiplexer is set to output the single bit X and multiplexer is set to output a value of 0 from path . Multiplier multiplies the multibit word Y with by bit X which is the first bit of the X word. The inverted or noninverted product produced by multiplier is applied to adder which adds zero from bus with the product produced by multiplier at port

During the next CLK cycle the second occurrence of CLK of or CLK cycle the output from port of adder is stored in shift register and the contents of the registers of delay shift toward the output of the delay toward the left in . Also multiplexer is set to output the signal on path and multiplexer is set to output X the second bit of the X word. Multiplier multiplies multibit word Y with bit X to produce the inverted or noninverted product at port . Adder adds together the output of multiplexer with product at the output port of multiplier .

During the third clock cycle of corresponding to CLK pulse the output from port of adder is transferred into shift register and the words stored in the other registers of delay shift one register to the left. Multiplexer is set to output bit X which is the third bit of the X word. Multiplexer is set to couple the output of register onto bus . Multiplier multiplies Y with X to produce the inverted or noninverted product signal at its output port . Adder adds the output from of multiplexer with the product from multiplier output port . This procedure continues until the Nclock cycle the last or N 1clock cycle of the first set of .

At the Nclock cycle the last or N 1clock cycle of the first set of the sum then at the output port of adder is stored in shift register and the contents of the shift registers of delay are not shifted to the left the output from register is the last zero value. Multiplexer is set to output X n the last bit of the X word and multiplexer is set to output the zero value word available on bus . Multiplier multiplies Y with X n to produce a product. Adder adds the product from output port of multiplier with output of multiplexer . This completes the correlation of the X word with the current Y word Y . It should be noted that in the arrangement of corresponding to the first correlator of a cascade of correlators the value coupled by multiplexer onto bus is always zero. In other correlators of a cascade the value coupled onto bus may in general be nonzero.

At the next or N 1clock cycle which is the 0clock cycle of the second set of CLK pulses of and which corresponds to the second CLK N pulse pulse of the next value or multibit word Y of input signal Y is stored in register and becomes available on bus . This second Y value or word will be correlated bit by bit with the same X word previously applied to the input of multiplexer . At the N 1clock cycle the 1CLK N pulse multiplexer is set to output X . The sum signal then at the output port of adder is stored in register . Multiplier multiplies Y with X to produce an inverted or noninverted product depending upon the value of X . It will be noted that multiplexer is again set to output the zero value from bus the value of zero is applied to bus at the beginning of each set of N clock cycles or at each CLK N clock cycle when the structure of processes the N least significant digits 0 through N of the large X and Y words being processed. However when the structure of is used to process digits of significance greater than the least multiplexer is handled differently as described below. Since arrangement of represents the lowest significant digit processing adder receives zero from multiplexer and adds zero with output of multiplier

During CLK Cycle n 2 CLK pulse N 1 the signal at output of adder is transferred into shift register . Multiplexer set to output X . Multiplexer is set to couple onto bus the output from register . Multiplier multiplies Y with X . Adder adds the output from the output port of multiplexer with output of multiplier .

The operation continues in like fashion. At CLK pulse or cycle corresponding once again to the 0cycle of the modulo N clock the signal at the output port of adder is transferred into shift register . Multiplexer set to output X N . Multiplexer set to couple to bus the output of register . Multiplier multiplies Y with X n . Adder adds the output of multiplexer with output of multiplier

During CLK cycle corresponding to the third CLK N pulse designated in the output from adder output port is stored in register . The next value of Y is stored in register and multiplexer is set to output X . Multiplexer is set to couple onto bus the output from register . Multiplier multiplies Y with X and adder adds zero with the output of multiplier . This process continues until all Y values have been processed against all the bits of X.

While the multiplier of has been described as multiplying the Y word by 1 if the current bit of the X word is a logic 1 and by 1 if the current bit of the X word is a logic 0 it can instead multiply the Y word by 1 if the current bit of the X word is logic 1 and by 1 if the current bit of the X word is logic 0.

In general an apparatus for correlating multibit first and second words according to an aspect of the invention includes a multiplexer for selecting one bit at a time of the second word and applying the bit to a multiplier which receives the first word for generating a product by inverting or noninverting the first word. The product is applied to an adder and is added to a delayed parallel signal to produce a sum signal. The sum signal is delayed in an amount related to the number of bits in the first word to produce the delayed parallel signal. A plurality of such apparatuses are cascaded with the bits of the second word applied in subsets to the apparatuses and the partial correlations applied as input words to the next apparatus in the cascade.

An apparatus according to an aspect of the invention is for correlating multibit first Y and second X signals. The apparatus includes a multiplexer with a multibit input port coupled to receive the second signal X and also includes a single bit output port for selectively coupling to its output port one bit at a time of the multibit second signal X . A multiplier includes an output port a first multibit input port and second single bit input port coupled to the output port of the multiplexer . The multiplier is coupled for receiving the first signals Y in parallel form at its first input port for controllably coupling to its output port a multibit product signal in response to the one bit of the second signal X applied to its second input port . The multiplier in one embodiment multiplies the words of the first signal Y by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal X applied to its second input port has a logical value of 1 and by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal X applied to its second input port has a logical value of 0. The multiplier in another embodiment multiplies the words of the first signal Y by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal X applied to its second input port has a logical value of 1 and by 1 if the one bit of the second digital signal X applied to its second input port has a logical value of 0. The apparatus further includes summing means including an input port coupled to the output port of the multiplier for summing the multibit product signals received from the multiplier with delayed parallel signals applied over path to thereby produce at port summed parallel signals representing the correlated output. A delay means or arrangement is coupled to receive the summed parallel signals for delaying the summed parallel signals for a number of clock cycles N equal to the number of bits N in the digital first signals X for thereby producing the delayed parallel signals.

A particular embodiment of the arrangement includes means for coupling the words of the second signal Y to the first input port of the multiplier . The means for coupling may comprise a register clocked at a rate Clk N lower than that of the multiplexer .

A particular embodiment of the arrangement further comprises a clocked register having an input port coupled to receive the summed parallel signals representing the correlated output.

In another embodiment the means for coupling the words of the first signal Y to the first input port of the multiplier comprises a first register clocked at a rate lower than that of the first multiplexer . This embodiment further comprises a clocked second register having an input port coupled to receive the summed parallel signals representing the correlated output with the second register being clocked at the same rate as the first register .

Initialization or cascading of the correlation apparatus may be provided by an embodiment which further comprises second multiplexing means coupled to the summing means for applying an initialization value to the summing means .

A method for correlating first and second multibit signals includes the step of applying the first signals Y to a first input port of a multiplier where the multiplier includes a single bit second input port and an output port . The application of the first signal is for a period of at least N clock cycles. The bits of the multibit second signal X are gated to the single bit second input port of the multiplier for sequentially multiplying the first input signal Y by the individual bits of the second input signal X for thereby producing multiplied multibit signals at port . The multiplied multibit signals are applied to a first input port of an adder which adder includes a second input port and an output port at which added signals are generated. The added signals are delayed by a number of clock cycles at least equal to the number of bits N in the first multibit signal X to thereby produce delayed signals. The delayed signals are applied to the second input port of the adder whereby the added signals at port include the result Rxy of the correlation. The results of the correlation are extracted from the added signals.

An apparatus according to an aspect of the invention is for correlating M bit first Y and second X signals. The apparatus comprises a plurality of N bit correlators . . . where N is less than M. Each of the N bit correlators . . . of the plurality comprises

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for correlating first Y and second X multibit signals. The method comprises the step of applying the multibit first Y signals to a first input port of a multiplier which includes a single bit second input port and an output port . The method further includes the step of while the multibit first signals Y are applied to the first input port of the multiplier sequentially gating by the bits of the multibit second signal X to the single bit second input port of the multiplier for sequentially multiplying the first input signal Y by the individual bits of the second X input signal for thereby producing on path multiplied multibit signals. The multiplied multibit signals are applied to a first input port of an adder which adder includes a second input port for receiving delayed signals from path and an output port at which added signals are generated representing the sum of the multiplied multibit signals with the delayed signals. The added signals are delayed by a number of clock cycles at least equal to the number of bits in the first multibit signal Y to thereby produce the delayed signals. The delayed signals are applied to the second input port of the adder whereby the added signals include the result of the correlation. A particular mode of this method comprises the step of extracting the result of the correlation from the added signals.

