---

title: Reactor for removing ammonia
abstract: Disclosed is a device for removing trace amounts of ammonia from a stream of gas, particularly hydrogen gas, prepared by a reformation apparatus. The apparatus is used to prevent PEM “poisoning” in a fuel cell receiving the incoming hydrogen stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07618600&OS=07618600&RS=07618600
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07618600
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060713
---
This invention was made with Government support under government contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention including a paid up license and the right in limited circumstances to require the owner of any patent issuing in this invention to license others on reasonable terms.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to a method and device for treating a source of hydrogen gas such as from a reformer in order to remove potentially deleterious contaminating species particularly ammonia which may be co formed during the reformation process or inadvertently introduced by contaminated feedstocks.

The growth in the world s energy needs brought about by population growth has place a severe strain on the increasing declining stocks of proven reserves of traditional energy resources such as coal petroleum and natural gas. Moreover geo political issues such as global warming said to be the result of fossil fuel combustion in the developed world as well as a drive toward energy independence in this country are themselves driving an increasing emphasis on the use of environmentally friendly energy sources. Sources such as solar wind and geothermal are beginning to replace other energy sources to produce is electricity. However an alternative to the use of gasoline or similar hydrocarbons to fuel personal automobiles remains elusive.

The conversion of liquid hydrocarbon fuel into hydrogen and carbon dioxide to feed polymer electrolyte membrane PEM fuel cells in a compact and energy efficient unit has numerous potential applications. Several examples of these applications include the replacement of batteries in remote sensors laptop computers and automobiles wherein power demands can range from several milliwatts to hundreds of kilowatts. Research groups developing mini and micro reforming prototypes are considering a number of approaches. Most approaches have focused on designing miniaturized hydrogen plants that involve a number of individual unit operations see Pettersson et al. 2001 26 p. 243 264 Joensen et al. 2002 105 p. 195 201 de Wild et al. 2000 60 p. 3 10 and Amphlett et al. 1996 21 p. 673 678 . Two examples of known processes for producing an optimized hydrogen stream are 1 partial oxidation at 800 1100 C. and ambient pressure or 2 direct catalytic steam reforming over Cu Zn AlObased catalysts at 250 C. and pressure in the range of 0.1 3.5 MPa. Experiments on Cu Zn AlOcatalysts have established that the direct steam reforming of methanol in a high steam environment can be rapid and under certain conditions can lead to a favorable product yield with negligible methane formation Peppley et al. 1999 79 p. 21 29 Agrell et al. 2002 106 p. 249 257 .

Fuel cells are well known and commonly used to produce electricity by an oxidation reducing redox reaction to power electrical apparatus such as apparatus on board space vehicles. In such fuel cells a plurality of planar fuel cells are typically arranged in a stack surrounded by an electrically insulating frame structure that defines manifolds for directing flow of reducing oxidant coolant and product fluids. Each individual cell generally includes an anode electrode and a cathode electrode separated by an electrolyte. A reactant or reducing fluid such as hydrogen is supplied to the anode electrode and an oxidant such as oxygen or air is supplied to the cathode electrode. In a cell utilizing a proton exchange membrane PEM as the electrolyte the hydrogen electrochemically reacts at a surface of the anode electrode to produce protons and electrons. The electrons are conducted to an external load circuit and then returned to the cathode electrode while the protons transfer through the electrolyte to the cathode electrode where they react with the oxidant and electrons to produce water and release thermal energy.

Additionally it is known that some fuel cells operate on pure hydrogen gas while others utilize a reformate fuel wherein a hydrogen enriched reducing fluid is formed from any of a variety of hydrocarbon fuels by fuel processing components including for example use of known autothermal steam or partial oxidation reformers. Unfortunately such reformation of hydrocarbon fuels generates ammonia that moves with the reformate fuel gas reactant stream into the fuel cell where the ammonia dissolves in the water in the electrolyte to become ammonium ions. The ammonia is formed in the reformer by a reaction between hydrogen and nitrogen present in the air that is used in the reforming process or nitrogen added to a peak shaved natural gas. The ammonium ions are then adsorbed by the PEM electrolyte to displace protons within the PEM thereby decreasing conductivity of the PEM and hence having a significant negative effect on performance of the fuel cell. Depending upon the temperature of the reformer composition of any catalyst in the reformer and nitrogen concentration within the reformer ammonia formed in the reforming process may range from 1 100 parts per million ppm . To efficiently operate a fuel cell power plant on such reformate fuel the ammonia must be effectively removed from the fuel prior to entry of the fuel into the fuel cells of the plant.

Accordingly there is a need to develop a fuel treatment system for removing ammonia from hydrogen generating reactors including reformate produced fuels.

Accordingly it is an object of the embodiments disclosed herein to provide an improved system for removing ammonia from a hydrogen fuel stream.

It is another object to provide a device through which a hydrogen fuel stream is passed which will chemically react with ammonia.

It is yet another object to provide a device for reducing ammonia contamination in a reformate fuel to an acceptable level on a continuous basis.

Still another object is to provide a process to be applied to a source of hydrogen feedstock to reduce ammonia contamination to an acceptably low level for use in a fuel cell.

These and other objects and advantages of the ammonia reduction system will become more readily apparent when the following description is read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

With reference to the accompanying figures a gas purification apparatus of an embodiment of this invention comprises a getter media for removing trace amounts of ammonia from hydrogen gas generally contained within a gas purification chamber that is in fluid communication with both a gas inlet and a gas outlet. Many configurations of such an apparatus will be known to those with skill in the art of gas purification. One example of a first embodiment of a present invention device could be deployed as is illustrated in . The gas purification device illustrated at and could comprise this or any suitable alternative configuration. The present device would be comprised of gas inlet and gas outlet on opposite ends of container made of any number of materials but typically a hydrogen resistant stainless steel such as AISI 316L or 321L austenitic steel. Gas inlet and gas outlet are provided with standard connections not shown known to those of skill in the gas purification arts for connection to gas lines leading to and away from gas purification device . A getter media would be contained inside container and held in place by a porous mechanical barrier in this case a wire mesh in a central zone within container . Lastly the gas purification device would include a means for heating getter media in order to improve the kinetics of the process. The present embodiment is shown with a spiral wound heat tape surrounding the zone containing getter media and is used for maintaining the temperature of the contained getter media between about room temperature 25 C. to about 300 C.

In one embodiment getter media could comprise a loosely packed powder. In another embodiment getter media could be compressed into a plurality of small pellets as shown in . It is noted however that although a cylindrical geometry is shown to comprise the pellets any effective pellet geometry would find equal utility. However due to the reduced surface area available for reacting with the transiting gas the size of the pellets would need to be small and the pellets packed tightly together. Moreover the interior of container should be broken up by a series of baffles to increase the path length over which the gas traverses through device .

Finally for some applications it may be necessary to provide multiple zones containing the same or different gettering materials to remove larger amounts of ammonia. For this application modified ammonia reactor such as is illustrated in cross section at is provided. Here hydrogen gas indicated by an arrow entering through inlet comes into contact with a first gettering material contained in zone a second gettering material contained in zone and finally a third getter material contained in zone . As before device is comprised of a container gas inlet and outlet and gas permeable mechanical barriers shown as a wire screen or gauze for physically separating the getter materials such that each is contained within one of three separate but connected zones. Note that while three zones are shown it is not known how many would be optimal. Moreover the length and number of zones used is likely dictated by the restriction to flow placed on the gas stream by getter material itself.

The compounds used as the gettering media for the above embodiments can comprise any material or group of materials having a physical or chemical affinity for ammonia. In particular the preferred ammonia gettering material especially for small or trace quantities of ammonia is lithium hydride LiH as this material is known to react very rapidly with ammonia to form lithium amide LiNH and free hydrogen see for instance Hu Y H et al. Ultrafast Reaction between LiH and HNduring HStorage in LiN 2003 vol. 107 46 pp. 9737 9739 herein incorporated by reference. In another embodiment various chlorides sulfates or nitrates of transition metals may be used to getter somewhat larger quantities of ammonia since these species are known to be acidic and therefore should react with ammonia a basic species. In particular transition metals are known to form strong acids and dissociate to nearly 100 in presence of water. Furthermore the hydroxides of transition metals are weak bases. The salts of transition metals therefore e.g. the nitrate sulfate chloride of transition metals are generally acidic and because ammonia is basic it will readily react with these acidic salts.

An example of a transition metal nitrate is cobalt nitrate obtained from Sigma Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. as the hexahydrate Co NO .6HO. To demonstrate the efficacy of the approach an experiment was performed in which hydrogen gas was desorbed from a lithium amide imide hydride storage bed and passed through powdered cobalt nitrate. Prior to exposure to cobalt nitrate the ammonia level in the stream of desorbed hydrogen was measured to be about 200 ppm using a Draeger Tube ammonia gas detector tube available from Draeger Safety Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. which exhibits a color change as the detection material within the tube is exposed to a contaminating species such as ammonia. Because the detection test is irreversible and cumulative the sensitivity of the test is increased by pumping multiple tube volumes through the detection material. In the present test after the contaminated gas stream passed through the powdered nitrate no color change could be detected even after pumping tube volumes through the most sensitive of the Draeger ammonia detector tubes i.e. 0 3 ppm. It is estimated therefore that ammonia levels in the gas stream after passing through the powdered nitrate were less than 1 ppm.

In still another embodiment finely powdered carbon may be used to physically absorb ammonia due to the very high surface areas available with this form of carbon. Ammonia is a polar molecule and easily attaches to many solid surfaces. Experiments similar to those conducted with cobalt nitrate were also conducted with powdered graphite obtained as natural graphite with 85 98 carbon from Asbury Graphite Mill Inc Asbury N.J. . As before the ammonia level in the stream of desorbed hydrogen was measured to be about 200 ppm using a Draeger Tube ammonia gas detector tube. Again after passing through the powdered graphite the ammonia level could not be detected when using the most sensitive of the ammonia gas detector tube. Because the mechanism for ammonia removal by carbon is physical adsorption other forms of carbon besides graphite e.g. carbon black and activated carbon are thought to be equally effective.

Lastly the present process is sensitive to moisture since the materials used to getter ammonia are highly deliquescent. Thus in some embodiments such as those in which the incoming stream comprises a wet hydrogen stream the gas could be first dried to remove residual moisture by contacting it with one or more of the oxides of various alkaline earth metals such as barium calcium or strontium known to react with water. In other embodiments hydrogen gas may be contacted with a material such as zeolites porous alumina and or silica and molecular sieves that physically adsorb water. In general the drying agent and the getter material are intended to be physically separated particularly because the ammonia gettering agent is separately heated. Such an embodiment might be prepared as is illustrated in .

Again hydrogen gas indicated by an arrow entering through inlet comes into contact first with drying material and then with getter material . As before device is comprised of container gas inlet and gas outlet . Drying material is placed in the chamber at a location adjacent to gas inlet while getter material is located at the opposite side of device adjacent to gas outlet . Gas permeable mechanical barrier again shown as a wire screen or gauze physically separates the getter material and drying agent and both are contained within two separate but connected zones and . In addition device is further comprised of thermal barrier separating zones and thereby allowing zone to be separately heated not shown if necessary.

Finally to the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

Therefore while the particular compositions described herein are fully capable of attaining the objects of the invention it is to be understood that 1 these compositions are the embodiments of the invention and are thus representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention 2 the scope of the present invention is intended to encompass these and other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art and 3 the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims. Furthermore no element component or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for . Lastly all material quantities and amounts are in parts by weight or by weight percentages unless otherwise indicated.

