---

title: Viewable and actionable search results
abstract: Search results can be viewed and acted upon. Searches may be conducted using a search input in conjunction with a selected category. The search results may be produced from such a search. One or more of the produced search results may be highlighted for previewing. Along with the preview, available actions are presented that are based on the selected category. A user can initiate an action of the available actions. The initiated action is then performed with respect to the highlighted search result(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07669142&OS=07669142&RS=07669142
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07669142
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060228
---
The internet contains a wealth of information. In fact the types of information are so varied and the amount of information is so great that it is difficult to find information without using some kind of search tool. Search tools are powered by search engines that may operate differently. For example searches may be based on key word search targets. The returned search results often differ from one search engine to another depending on the mechanism employed to crawl the internet and to index the information that is encountered during the crawling.

Regardless of the underlying search engine that is used search results are usually returned by search engines in a listing format. To peruse the search results a user clicks on each individual search result that appears to be promising. If the user determines that the search result is ultimately not relevant the user returns e.g. backs up to the search results and clicks on another promising individual search result. The process continues until a helpful search result is actually discovered.

Search results can be viewed and acted upon. Searches may be conducted using a search input in conjunction with a selected category. The search results may be produced from such a search. One or more of the produced search results may be highlighted for previewing. Along with the preview available actions are presented that are based on the selected category. A user can initiate an action of the available actions. The initiated action is then performed with respect to the highlighted search result s .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover other method system scheme apparatus device media procedure API arrangement etc. implementations are described herein.

As described above search results are usually returned by search engines in a listing format. To peruse the search results a user clicks on each individual search result that appears to be promising. The search result is then displayed in a different browser window or in place of the search result listing. If the user determines that the search result is actually not relevant the user returns e.g. backs up to the browser window with the search results listing and clicks on another promising individual search result. The process continues until a helpful search result is discovered.

Once a helpful search result is discovered the user must open another window of a browser and or of another application in order to perform some action on or with the helpful search result. For example a messenger program or an email program must be launched to send or mail the search result to a buddy or other contact. At least another window must be opened to blog the search result. Furthermore to search emails an email program that is separate from a browser program must be launched. In short the conventional search experience is separate from other services that may be utilized on a computer.

In contrast certain described implementations for viewable and actionable search results integrate different services and a search function. For example search results for the web for emails for shopping for news etc. may be displayed for the same search input merely be changing category. To view a given search result item the corresponding search result may be highlighted in a search results listing. The given search result is then previewed. To facilitate performing some action with respect to the previewed search result available actions that depend on a selected category are presented for the previewed search result. Thus actions that pertain to web search results are presented for a previewed web search result item actions that pertain to a mail search results are presented for a previewed mail search result item and so forth.

Although only a single server and service provider are explicitly illustrated in environment multiple service providers may exist each with multiple servers . Similarly although only a single client and user are shown there may be multiple such clients and or users that are being served by one or more servers . Server and client include processing and media resources that are sufficient to perform their respect functions as described herein. Example device hardware software etc. for a server and or a client are described herein below with particular reference to .

Server and client communicate over network . Network may be any given network or combination of networks. Examples include but are not limited to the Internet a telephone network a cable network a local or wide area network LAN or WAN a wireless or wired network some combination thereof and so forth. However in a described implementation network comprises at least the internet and more specifically the world wide web WWW portion of the internet.

Service provider module is capable of providing one or more services over network . Examples of such services include but are not limited to web search email instant messaging IM news shopping web log productivity authentication . . . other services s and so forth. Web log services may include those services that enable a user to create a web log or blog . Productivity services may include applications such as word processing spread sheets financial planning and analysis audio visual presentation development some combination thereof and so forth.

Authentication services may include services relating to proving that a person has certain access rights through e.g. identification ID and password regimes. Other examples may include providing cryptographic services and or evaluation of login ID and other identifying data e.g. a finger print an iris scan etc. . Other services s represents other possible web based services such as those for entertainment art and so forth.

In a described implementation service provider module which executes on server stores the data and performs the processing in order to provide services . Accordingly client can optionally be a relatively light weight device with minimal processing and storage capabilities. UI module executes on client and presents a UI to user on behalf of service provider module in order to provide one or more services . The basics of an example UI are described below with particular reference to .

Although example implementations of viewable and actionable search results are described herein primarily in terms of a paradigm in which the server is responsible for the majority of the computing viewable and actionable search results may be realized in alternative implementations. For example client may have significant processing storage and communications capabilities such that a server is not involved at least for services that may be fully or partially self hosted at client . For instance client may search stored emails and blogs without interaction across network . Cooperation interaction and division of computing responsibilities between server and client may also be realized anywhere along a continuum having one end in which server is primarily responsible for the computing and having another end in which client is primarily responsible for the computing.

As illustrated program window includes a top level menu bar a location indicator bar a category area a search input area an information depth selector and a search results area . The illustrated example menu components of the top level menu bar are File Edit View Favorites Tools and Help. However more fewer or different menu components may alternatively be present on the top level menu bar especially depending on the underlying program. The location indicator bar if included has a dual purpose. First it can be used to input a desired target location that is local or across a network. Second it presents the location with which communication is currently established.

Category area includes multiple categories . The illustrated example categories are web images news feeds mail local shopping spaces and sample category. Respective categories may correspond to one or more services of . For example web may correspond to web search mail may correspond to email shopping may correspond to shopping spaces may correspond to web log and so forth. Categories may also be separate from services that are provided by service provider module . For instance category local may be directed to information stored locally at client .

Categories may be displayed as part of UI in any of a variety of manners. They may simply be listed like the text of a menu bar. They may be represented as press able buttons. They may be realized as tabs. Other manners may alternatively be implemented. Also although categories are illustrated as being represented by text they may alternatively be represented by an icon e.g. an envelope for mail a bag for shopping etc. or by both text and an icon.

A category of category area may be selected as indicated by selection highlighting indicator . Although selection highlighting indicator is shown as a ring formed from a dashed line selection can be indicated in alternative manners. Example alternative selection highlighting indication manners include but are not limited to visual brightening inverse video changing a background color or hue having a button look depressed having a tab be moved to the top adding a check mark some combination thereof and so forth.

Desired selection may be indicated by a user in any of a variety of manners. First selection may be indicated with keyboard commands e.g. key presses and then . Second selection may be indicated with letters representing particular categories e.g. by pressing the underlined letter along with the key . Third selection may be indicated with a pointer device e.g. by moving a cursor icon in proximity to a desired category and clicking . These selection indication mechanisms may be combined and or other alternatives may also be implemented.

Search input area enables the input of search terms. As illustrated it includes a box for search term input and a button to activate the search. The example search term input is Terms XYZ . Search results area includes the search results of the search term input. Generally search results area includes r search results r with r being some integer. Specifically as illustrated it includes search result search result search result search result search result . . . search result r r . Although search results are displayed vertically in UI they may be displayed in an alternative arrangement. Examples of such alternative arrangements include but are not limited to multiple columns one or more rows a grid and so forth.

Information depth selector enables a user to select the amount or depth of information that is displayed for each search result . As illustrated information depth selector is a slider bar . Slider bar includes a pointer arrow that may be slid by a user to a number of different positions. Sliding the pointer arrow completely leftward causes search results to be displayed in a relatively minimal format. Sliding the pointer arrow completely rightward causes search results to be displayed in a relatively maximal format. There are intermediate positions in between the two. In an example implementation the displayed search results may be changed in response to sliding the pointer arrow without re running the search i.e. all of the data that would be displayed in a maximal format is initially retrieved but may not be initially displayed .

An example relatively minimal format may include the title of a corresponding search result item and an identifier e.g. a network location thereof. An example of a relatively maximal format may include for the corresponding search result item the title the network location some initial text of the item text around the words of the search terms an image and statistical information about the item. However the maximal the minimal and the intermediate formats may include more less and or different information.

Although information depth selector is specifically illustrated as a slider bar it may be realized with a different mechanism. For example information depth selector may be realized as a set of radio style buttons. Also a slider bar a set of buttons or another information depth selector mechanism may include detailed icons or text that describe or otherwise indicate the amount of information provided for each setting.

As illustrated UI presents category area between search input area and search results area e.g. below the former and above the latter . In a described implementation category area is presented after an input search term is entered and a search is activated on the search term at search input area . However category area may alternatively also be presented prior to a search activation. Although category area may be presented in a different location presenting it proximate to search results area facilitates user access and interactivity when switching the selected category .

In a described implementation the selected category as visually represented by selection highlighter indicator determines the context for a requested search. If the images category is selected the input search term Terms XYZ is applied to for example a database or index of data that pertains to images. If the mail category is selected then the input search term Terms XYZ is applied to information pertaining to mail.

When a category selection is changed in category area search results that are displayed in search results area are likewise changed. In other words the output search results for a search input of Terms XYZ are changed. For example search results from the images category are replaced by search results from the mail category when selection highlighter indicator is moved from Images to Mail .

Selection of a search result in search results area may be effected in the same manners as or in similar manners to those described above with particular reference to for selecting a category from category area . Likewise the highlighting of selection highlighted indicator for a search result may be realized in the same manners as or in similar manners to those described above for the highlighting of selection highlighted indicator for a category .

In a described implementation pane enables selected search result s to be previewed. Because search result has been selected as represented by selection highlighted indicator the item corresponding to the selected search result is displayed at . The displayed item may include text images video some combination thereof and so forth depending on the selected category as well as the content of the particular item .

Although less than all of the material of item may be displayed UI displays as much of a full version of item as is capable of being displayed in pane as governed by space limitations. Pane may be capable of being sized and or scrolled. Sizing and or scrolling the overall program window may also change the amount of item that is displayed within pane .

Pane also includes an available actions area A. Available actions area A includes actions that are available to be initiated with respect to the previewed item that corresponds to the selected search result . Available actions area A may be part of or merely proximate to pane . They may be present at all times when search functions are being utilized or when a particular search result has been selected. Available actions area A may also be presented anywhere within program window including anywhere on a computing desktop but proximity to pane tends to provide context and user convenience.

In a described implementation the actions that are made available in available actions area A are category sensitive. In other words the actions that a user may initiate for a displayed preview item depend on the category that is selected as represented by selection highlighted indicator in category area . Thus a UI module possibly in conjunction with a service provider module presents available actions area A based on a selected category of category area .

The available actions are actions that relate to items that would be found in a search with regard to the selected category. For example available actions presented in available actions area A when the mail category is selected relate to mail items actions such as reply forward and so forth. Other example available actions for example categories are described further herein below with particular reference to .

In UI a user has selected search result as represented by selection highlighted indicator . Although other mechanisms such as keyboarding and pointing and clicking may be employed in his example selection of a search result has been effectuated based on proximity with pointer icon . More specifically selection may be effected merely by roll over of a search result by pointer icon . Roll over by pointer icon may also be used to select a category . 

When previewing search results with a pop up overlay pop up overlay is displayed as part of UI upon selection of a search result . In UI pop up overlay is displayed as touching or at least proximate to the selected search result but another location within program window may alternatively be chosen.

In a described implementation pop up overlay includes a displayed preview of the item corresponding to the selected search result . Pop up overlay also includes an available actions area B that presents actions that may be initiated by a user for performance with respect to the displayed item . The actions of available actions area B are based on the category that is selected in category area as represented by selection highlighted indicator . In other words the actions in available actions area A for pane may be the same as the actions in available actions area B for pop up overlay if the selected category is the same.

These four selected search results are reflected in pane . The four items and that correspond to the four selected search results and respectively are displayed in pane . In this example when multiple items are previewed in pane each item is displayed in a thumbnail format. However other display formats may alternatively be used.

An available actions area C is also presented. The actions of available actions area C are based on the selected category . Hence in the example of UI the actions of available actions area C depend on which actions are relevant for items that are found from a search of the selected Sample Category .

The available actions in available actions area C may be adjusted as compared to those of available actions area A or B because certain actions may not be simultaneously applicable to the multiple items that are previewed in pane . However for those actions that are simultaneously applicable to the multiple items that are previewed in pane initiation of an action from available actions area C by a user causes the initiated action to be performed with respect to each of the multiple items . For example for four web page items that are displayed in pane the initiation of a bookmarking action causes all four web page items to be added to a favorites folder.

Accordingly the illustrated actions of available. actions area A are specifically related to items pertaining to the web. The illustrated example actions include send bookmark highlight and blog this. As represented in UI by the downward pointing triangular symbol additional options can be made available to user that relate to sending the previewed item . In this case the additional options may relate to a destination and or a mode for sending the previewed item .

The presented actions of the available actions areas may be presented visually as a drop down menu as press able buttons as some combination thereof and so forth. Each action may be represented with text and or an icon.

Table stores associations for one or more categories . Table specifically includes examples for a web category a mail category and a shopping category. The associated available actions for a selected web category are send to contact bookmark highlight blog it and so forth. The associated available actions for a selected mail category are reply delete move to forward to instant message buddy and so forth. The associated available actions for a selected shopping category are send to friend purchase add to wish list and so forth.

At block a UI is presented. For example a UI may be presented to a user . At block a category selection is received. The initial category selection may be from user or a programmatically based on a default initial selection. For example a category may be selected as represented by selection highlighted indicator .

At block a search input is received. For example search terms may be received at a search input area . At block the search is performed using the search input in conjunction with the selected category. For example the input search terms may be applied to a database and or index of data that is directed to the selected category. At block the search results are displayed. For example search results in accordance with the selected category may be displayed in a search results area .

At block it is detected if a search result is highlighted. For example it may be detected if at least one search result is highlighted by user as represented by selection highlighted indicator . If not then at block the operational module can determine if the search input is changed or if the selected category is changed. Either change can cause a different set of search results to be displayed. Otherwise the operational module continues to await detection of highlighting of a search result at block .

If on the other hand it is detected that a search result is highlighted at block then at block a preview of the highlighted search result is displayed. For example a preview of an item corresponding to a highlighted search result may be displayed in a pane or in a pop up overlay or in another display format.

At block available actions are presented in association with the previewed search result with the available actions being based on the selected category. For example category dependent actions may be presented in available actions area for a pane or a pop up overlay and so forth.

At block it is detected if user input initiates an action of the presented available actions. If not then at block the operational module continues monitoring for changes to the search input the selected category the highlighted search result s and so forth. Possible detection of action initiation at block is also continued.

If on the other hand user initiation of an action is detected at block then at block the initiated action is performed with respect to the previewed search result. For example the initiated action may be performed with respect to the previewed item without forcing the user to leave the search experience.

Generally device may represent a server or a client device a storage device a workstation or other general computer device a set top box or other television device a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone or other mobile appliance some combination thereof and so forth. As illustrated device includes one or more input output I O interfaces at least one processor and one or more media . Media includes processor executable instructions . Although not specifically illustrated device may also include other components.

In a described implementation of device I O interfaces may include i a network interface for communicating across network s ii a display device interface for displaying information on a display screen iii one or more man machine device interfaces and so forth. Examples of i network interfaces include a network card a modem one or more ports and so forth. Examples of ii display device interfaces include a graphics driver a graphics card a hardware or software driver for a screen television or printer etc. to create a UI. Examples of iii man machine device interfaces include those that communicate by wire or wirelessly to man machine interface devices e.g. a keyboard or keypad a mouse or other graphical pointing device a remote control etc. to manipulate and interact with a UI.

Generally processor is capable of executing performing and or otherwise effectuating processor executable instructions such as processor executable instructions . Media is comprised of one or more processor accessible media. In other words media may include processor executable instructions that are executable by processor to effectuate the performance of functions by device .

Thus realizations for viewable and actionable search results may be described in the general context of processor executable instructions. Generally processor executable instructions include routines programs applications coding modules protocols objects interfaces components metadata and definitions thereof data structures application programming interfaces APIs etc. that perform and or enable particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Processor executable instructions may be located in separate storage media executed by different processors and or propagated over or extant on various transmission media.

Processor s may be implemented using any applicable processing capable technology. Media may be any available media that is included as part of and or accessible by device . It includes volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media and storage and transmission media e.g. wireless or wired communication channels . For example media may include an array of disks for longer term mass storage of processor executable instructions random access memory RAM for shorter term storage of instructions that are currently being executed flash memory for medium to longer term storage optical disks for portable storage and or link s on network for transmitting code or other communications and so forth.

As specifically illustrated media comprises at least processor executable instructions . Generally processor executable instructions when executed by processor enable device to perform the various functions described herein. Examples include but are not limited to those functions of a service provider module and or a UI module of those enabled by a category to available actions association table of those exhibited by UIs and of and respectively some combination thereof and so forth.

The devices actions aspects features functions procedures modules data structures schemes approaches UIs architectures components etc. of are illustrated in diagrams that are divided into multiple blocks. However the order interconnections interrelationships layout etc. in which are described and or shown are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the blocks can be modified combined rearranged augmented omitted etc. in any manner to implement one or more systems methods devices procedures media apparatuses APIs arrangements etc. for viewable and actionable search results.

Although systems media devices methods procedures apparatuses techniques schemes approaches arrangements and other implementations have been described in language specific to structural logical algorithmic and functional features and or diagrams it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

