---

title: Process of making a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus
abstract: A lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus, including a core section and a laminate composite section. The core section is substantially similar to a diamond shape. The laminate composite section has a plurality of thermally conductive fibers, which are disposed around the core section and oriented at a configuration similar to the core section.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07284600&OS=07284600&RS=07284600
owner: United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07284600
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061109
---
This application is a division of application Ser. No. 10 056 812 filed Jan. 24 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 156 161 entitled Lightweight Thermal Heat Transfer Apparatus.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus which provides an efficient thermal conduction path from a thermal source. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that can function either as a heatsink and or a heat dissipative fin that can be used in conjunction with electronic equipment.

A heatsink a heat dissipative fin and or a thermal heat transfer apparatus is typically but without limitation an apparatus which has high thermal conductivity and lowers the temperature as well as draws heat from a thermal source. Typically a heat sink a heat dissipative fin and or a thermal heat transfer apparatus dissipates scatters disperses heat or even makes heat disappear. A heatsink a heat dissipative fin and or a thermal heat transfer apparatus also provides a thermal conductive path away from a thermal source.

Heat sinks heat dissipative fins and or thermal heat transfer apparatuses are widely used in the electronics industry to provide passive thermal control of electronic components. Aluminum copper and other metals or metal alloys have been used for these applications. However as electronic components have decreased in size power density has increased. These factors have resulted in higher heat dissipation requirements in electronic components than conventional materials and designs can provide. The power levels and power densities of many current electronic designs are limited by the heat dissipative capabilities of their heatsinks heat dissipative fins and or thermal heat transfer apparatuses.

For a variety of electronic applications such as aircraft or aerospace applications it is highly desirable to minimize the weight of the heatsink the heat dissipative fin and or the thermal heat transfer apparatus and maximize its heat dissipative capabilities.

Laminated composites have been used to manufacture heatsinks heat dissipative fins and or thermal heat transfer apparatuses. The use of laminated composites composed of fibers and a matrix material as heat sinks heat dissipative fins and or thermal heat transfer apparatuses has not resulted in as much thermal conductivity as was originally anticipated because the transverse thermal conductivity of these fibers is an order of magnitude less than axial thermal conductivity. Thus there is a requirement for a new thermal heat transfer apparatus that provides a direct thermal path along the fiber axis from the surface of the thermal heat transfer apparatus to its edge. This requirement would provide more thermal conductivity and minimize weight and size of the heatsink heat dissipative fin and or thermal heat transfer apparatus.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus. Information relevant to attempts to address these problems can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 609 586 4 849 858 4 867 235 4 888 247 5 002 715 5 111 359 5 287 248 5 255 738 5 224 030 and 5 316 080. None of these patents are admitted to be prior art with respect to the present invention. However each of these references suffers from one of the above listed disadvantages.

The present invention is directed to a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that satisfies the needs listed above and below.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that includes a core section and a laminate composite section. The core section may be substantially diamond shaped. The laminate composite section has a plurality of thermally conductive fibers. The thermally conductive fibers are disposed around the core section and are oriented at a configuration similar to the core section.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that transfers heat multidirectionally away from an apparatus that generates heat.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that is lightweight and an effective thermal conductor.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that can be used as either a heatsink a heat dissipative fin or as a cooling fin or in other applications where thermal conduction is required of a plate shaped conduit.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that provides a configuration in which heat flux is relatively constant along paths through the lightweight heat transfer apparatus.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus that provides a direct thermal path along the fiber axis from the surface of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus to its edges.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrated by way of example in and . As shown in and the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus includes a core section and a laminate composite section .

A laminate composite typically contains two or more interconnected thin layers stratum lamella membranes plates folds wafers or the like. The laminate composite section may have a plurality of thermally conductive fibers . Fibers are typically but without limitation threadlike structures ropelike structures or slender filaments that combine with others to form a substance and or very fine continuous strands. Thermally conductive fibers are fibers that have the ability to transmit conduct transport carry to or take from one place to another transfer or convey heat. The plurality of thermally conductive fibers may be imbedded in a matrix. The matrix material may be a polymer or a polymer with metallic and or thermally conductive chopped fiber additions. A polymer is typically defined but without limitation as a compound of high molecular weight derived either by the addition of many smaller molecules or by condensation of many smaller molecules with the elimination of water alcohol or the like. The matrix material may also be of a metallic or ceramic composition. The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus may also include off axis thermally conductive fibers that are both continuous and discontinuous to aid heat flow across the principal fiber directions.

The thermally conductive fibers may be isotropic having similar properties in every direction or anisotropic having different properties in different directions . Thermally conductive fibers that are anisotropic and made from mesophase pitch material are preferred. A mesophase pitch material is defined as but without limitation a material created from a form of tar or pitch a heavy liquid or dark residue obtained by the distillation of tar followed by repeated stretching and exposure to elevated temperatures to convert the material to graphite fibers that are in an intermediate nematic being in a phase characterized by arrangement of long axes in parallel lines but not layers or smectic being in a phase characterized by arrangement of molecules in layers with long molecular axes stage. Exposure temperatures could be as high as about 3500 degrees Celsius in an inert atmosphere. Thermally conductive fibers made from mesophase pitch material typically assume a two dimensional graphitic crystalline structure along the fiber axis and posses thermal conductivities ranging from about 100 to about 1100 W m degrees Kelvin and have a density of about 2 to about 2.5 g cc. The thermal conductivities of thermally conductive fibers manufactured from mesophase pitch material are typically 2 3 times greater then the thermal conductivities of copper a material often used in applications where high thermal conductivities are required. The thermally conductive fibers manufactured from mesophase pitch material also posses extremely high moduli about 100 10 to the 6power psi modulus is typically defined as the measure of a force or properties of mass or their effects and also posses high strength about 300 ksi .

The thermally conductive fibers may also be made from carbon fiber. A thermally conductive fiber made from carbon fiber is produced from polyacrylonitrile PAN and is stretched and exposed to elevated temperatures as high as about 2500 degrees Celsius. Thermally conductive fibers made from carbon fiber have thermal conductivities ranging from about 10 to about 70 W m degrees Kelvin. They also posses high strength about 400 to about 500 ksi and high moduli about 40 to about 50 10 to the 6power psi . The thermally conductive fibers made from carbon fiber typically have a density of about 1.8 g cc.

Metallic additions to the thermally conductive fibers may be added and also may be in the form of coatings. Metallic additions may be dispersed in the matrix and may be in the form of flakes chopped fibers lenticular shapes and the like. Thermally conductive fibers may also be added in the translaminar through thickness direction to further aid in heat dissipation. These fibers could be discontinuous and dispersed in the matrix or continuous and inserted through the thickness of the laminate.

The laminate composite section may be produced using compression molding oven or autoclave operations resin transfer molding or any other method compatible with fabrication of such a polymeric matrix configuration.

The thermally conductive fibers may be supported by pitched based fibrous reinforcements. The pitched based fibrous reinforcements are typically an added piece a support a material or an apparatus device or system that strengthens the thermally conductive fibers . The pitched based fibrous reinforcements can be made from material similar to the thermally conductive fibers however the pitched based fibrous reinforcements are shaped in a manner to effectively reinforce the thermally conductive fibers . An example would be a triangle shape in apex regions of the core section or a variety of shapes used for similar purposes dependent on the interior or core section space geometry. The volume occupied in these core section regions would be further dependent on the degree of reinforcement required.

A core section is typically the central part of a heat transfer apparatus. The thermally conductive fibers may be disposed around the core section . The core section may be a variety of shapes. The preferred shape of the cross sectional area of the core section is substantially similar to a diamond shape. A diamond shape can include but without limitation a lozenge or a rhombus shape. A rhombus is typically an equilateral parallelogram especially one with oblique or slanting angles. A lozenge is typically a four sided equilateral figure whose opposing angles are equal. The core section may contain core edges or a core interface . The core edges or core interface is the surface regarded as the common boundary of the core section and the laminate composite section or the thermally conductive fibers . The core edges or core interface may be straight lines curved or arced lines. The curvature of the core edges or core interface may be hyperbolic parabolic or any type of curvature. The curvature of the core edges or core interface may be changed to optimize the volume of the thermally conductive fibers to suit the needs of the application. In the preferred embodiment the thermally conductive fibers are orientated at a configuration similar to the core section . The core section may have four core section sides and four core section apexes pointed ends or tips . The four core section sides make up the core edges or core interface . As shown in each core section side may have a plurality of thermally conductive fibers parallel to it. In another embodiment of the invention as shown in the thermally conductive fibers may have an increased fiber intersect angle. In this embodiment the thermally conductive fibers may be curved rounded hyperbolic parabolic ellipsoidal arced or be shaped as a part of a circle and not aligned as a straight line. In another embodiment the curvature of the core section sides can be substantially varied to correspond to functions such as X X X e etc.

The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus can be substantially similar to the shape of a parallelogram while the cross sectional area may also be substantially similar to the shape of a parallelogram. A parallelogram is typically defined as a four sided plane figure having the opposite side parallel and equal. A parallelogram may include but is not limited to a square a rectangle and a rhomboid. A rectangle is typically a four sided plane figure with four right angles while a square typically has four equal sides and four right angles. The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus has edges borders or margins as defined by its shape. These edges may be straight arced curved or rounded. The edges may also be the exterior or external laminate or exterior or external thermally conductive fibers or laminate composite section .

In one of the many possible embodiments the edges of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus are coated with a conductive coating . A coating is defined but without limitation as a layer of any substance spread over a surface. The conductive coating may be a coating of pure metal or an alloy. A metal is typically but without limitation defined as an electropositive chemical element characterized by ductility malleability luster conductivity of heat and electricity. An alloy is typically defined but without limitation as a mixture of two or more metallic elements or non metals which has a metallic appearance and or some metallic properties. Copper nickel silver gold aluminum alloys of these metals as well as various combinations such as copper molybdenum boron nitride and beryllium aluminum can be used as conductive coatings. Diamond coatings may also be used as a conductive coating because of their super high conductivity. A diamond coating may be defined but without limitation as a coating made from a crystalline carbon which typically contains colorless or tinted isometric crystals. The diamond coating may be made from a naturally occurring industrial or synthetic crystalline carbon. The conductive coating should posses good thermal conductivity and have reasonable adherence to the edges of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus . Coating an edge of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus provides a conductive path for off axis fibers from the side wedge any surface of the interior to the cold wall edge those surfaces where the ends of the thermal conducting fibers terminate . A coated cold wall edge will insure intimate contact with all the conductive fiber ends at the edge of the laminate. This will prevent localized degradation in thermal performance.

The thermally conductive fibers may be disposed at non zero non right angles or oblique neither perpendicular nor parallel to a given line or surface angles to the edges of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus . In the preferred embodiment the thermally conductive fibers are disposed at an angle to the edges and none of the thermally conducted fibers are parallel or perpendicularly orthogonal at a right angle to any of the edges .

The core section may be hollow. The core section may be a material selected from the group of air foam fluid and or honeycomb. The foam or honeycomb may be polymeric or metallic in nature with additions of the opposite material in the case of the foam to enhance desired properties. Such an approach allows for significant weight savings approximately 33 over a conventionally configured without a lightweight core composite. The core section may also be made from a solid polymeric based system of materials which is a group of materials whereby the primary material is a polymer mixed in with other materials. Both thermoset rendered hard by heat and thermoplastic rendered soft and moldable by heat polymeric materials could be used to make the core section . The polymeric based core section may be manufactured using injection molding compression molding extrusion oven or autoclave curing operations resin transfer molding vacuum assisted resin transfer molding or any other type of manufacturing process that lends itself to producing a polymeric based system of materials. The polymeric based foam or solid core options could also employ continuous as well as discontinuous thermally conductive fibers. Metallic additions to the polymers may be used to further improve thermal conductivity. The metallic additions to the polymer based core section may be in the form of flakes chopped fibers lenticular shapes or coatings or graphite fibers and the like. Metallic additions irrespective of form would enhance transverse fiber conductivity.

If a hollow configuration is used additional thermal dissipation may be achieved by fluid convection. Convection is typically defined but not limited to a movement of parts of a fluid within the fluid because of differences in heat and heat transference by such movement. Fluids are typically either liquid or gas. By forcing air or other fluids through a hollow core section additional heat flow may be realized. A number of fluids can be used to effect thermal transport. Aqueous based liquids with additives such as ethylene glycol petroleum based fluids and silicone based fluids are a few examples of the many types of different fluids that may be used to realize additional heat flow. Additives are also effective in retarding oxidation and degradation as well as enhancing thermal efficiency. The selection of a particular fluid would be dependent on the thermal service conditions among other factors.

Stiffening an apex of the core section may be required to meet the structural requirements of some applications. The apexes may be stiffened by adding a plurality of plies . The plurality of plies may be added to a pair of opposite or across from each other apexes of the core section . A ply is typically but without limitation a thickness or layers of material in a particular area. The plies can be additional layers of thermally conductive fibers that give the local area support. The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus may contain several groups of plurality of plies . The groups may be placed at each individual apex . As shown in the preferred embodiment includes two groups of a plurality of plies one group of the plurality of plies is attached at one apex and the other group of plurality of plies is attached at an opposite apex .

The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus may also include a stiffener to allow support for the thermally conductive fibers and to maintain the shape of the core section . The stiffener may include a stiffener shaft portion and two stiffener supports on opposite ends of the stiffener shaft portion . As shown in the two stiffener supports may be disposed at opposite apexes . The stiffener may be substantially I shaped with a top line and a bottom line . The top line and the bottom line may be the two stiffener supports . The two stiffener supports may slope or angle downward or upward at the stiffener shaft portion . The stiffener top line and bottom line each respective stiffener support correspond to the thermally conductive fibers . The stiffener may be manufactured from any metal metal alloy plastic ceramic rubber or any type of material. The stiffener may be produced from the thermally conductive fibers . This type of configuration would promote what is known to one skilled in the art as Z direction heat transfer. The stiffener may be manufactured from carbon fiber reinforced polymeric composites graphite fiber reinforced polymeric composites or a composite of fiber with metal or plastic or both. Metallic additions may be used in the stiffener to improve thermal conductivity properties.

The geometry shown in the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus uses more conductive material where in a conventional heatsink the heat flux is large. Similarly it uses less material when the heat flux is normally small. Heat flux is typically an indication of the thermal transport for specific configurations and their boundary conditions. Heat flux is proportional to the change in temperature with respect to distance. In a steady state condition heat flux of a conventional heat sink is greatest at its edge and a minimum at its center. The geometry of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus provides a configuration in which heat flux is relatively constant along an axis through the lightweight heat transfer apparatus . The geometry also provides a direct thermal path along the fiber axis from the surface of the lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus to its edge .

The lightweight thermal heat transfer apparatus may be constructed using many various fabrication techniques. One such technique is by fabricating an oval with the thermally conductive fibers . The oval is then cut into quadrants. The quadrants are aligned around a substantially diamond shaped core section such that the diamond shape is maintained. Another possibility is by building the laminate ply by ply or fiber by fiber and staggering the ply lengths to permit outer skin laminate to exhibit a half diamond like shape. A core section could then be bonded to the two such laminates resulting in the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The core section may be manufactured using any method that provides the designed core geometry. One method is to fabricate the core section from low density foam which collapses when pressure is applied during processing yet still maintains its diamond shape. Another method is to machine a core section from a larger piece of foam or material.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 34 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6.

