---

title: Pharmaceutical compounds
abstract: 

Compounds of Formula Ia are useful as anti-atherosclerotic, anti-asthmatic, anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective agents.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07553973&OS=07553973&RS=07553973
owner: Merck Frosst Canada Ltd.
number: 07553973
owner_city: Quebec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20060321
---
The instant invention involves novel compounds which are useful as inhibitors of leukotriene biosynthesis.

Inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis has been an active area of pharmaceutical research for many years. The leukotrienes constitute a group of locally acting hormones produced in living systems from arachidonic acid. Leukotrienes are potent contractile and inflammatory mediators derived by enzymatic oxygenation of arachidonic acid by 5 lipoxygenase. One class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors are those known to act through inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO .

The major leukotrienes are Leukotriene B abbreviated as LTB LTC LTDand LTE. The biosynthesis of these leukotrienes begins with the action of the enzyme 5 lipoxygenases on arachidonic acid to produce the epoxide known as Leukotriene A LTA which is converted to the other leukotrienes by subsequent enzymatic steps. Further details of the biosynthesis as well as the metabolism of the leukotrienes are to be found in the book Leukotrienes and Lipoxygenases ed. J. Rokach Elsevier Amsterdam 1989 . The actions of the leukotrienes in living systems and their contribution to various diseases states are also discussed in the book by Rokach.

In general 5 LO inhibitors have been sought for the treatment of allergic rhinitis asthma and inflammatory conditions including arthritis. One example of a 5 LO inhibitor is the marketed drug zileuton ZYLOFT which is indicated for the treatment of asthma. More recently it has been reported that 5 LO may be an important contributor to the atherogenic process see Mehrabian M. et al. Circulation Research 2002 Jul. 26 91 2 120 126.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment and prevention of conditions affected by 5 LO inhibition further treatment options are needed. The instant invention addresses that need by providing novel 5 LO inhibitors which are useful for inhibiting leukotriene biosynthesis.

The instant invention relates to compounds of Formula Ia which are leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors methods for their preparation and methods and pharmaceutical formulations for using these compounds in mammals especially humans.

The compounds of Formula Ia are useful as pharmaceutical agents to slow or halt atherogenesis. Therefore the instant invention provides a method for treating atherosclerosis which includes halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically evident comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia to a patient in need of such treatment. The instant invention also provides methods for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease events comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia to a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis or having an atherosclerotic disease event.

Additionally the instant invention involves the use of compounds of Formula Ia as anti asthmatic anti allergic anti inflammatory and cytoprotective agents. They are also useful in treating angina cerebral spasm glomerular nephritis hepatitis endotoxemia uveitis and allograft rejection. The instant invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

The instant invention further provides the use of a compound of Formula Ia in combination with other therapeutically effective agents. Additional embodiments will be evident from the following detailed description.

The novel leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors of the instant invention are compounds of structural Formula Ia

In one embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula Ia having structural Formula Ib 

In another class of this embodiment are compounds within the scope of Formula Ib having the following structural Formula I 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds within the scope of Formula Ia having structural Formula Ic 

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula Ia wherein A is selected from the group consisting of 

a a 5 membered aromatic ring containing i one or more carbon atoms ii one heteroatom selected from oxygen and sulfur and iii zero one two or three nitrogen atoms 

b a 5 membered aromatic ring containing one or more carbon atoms and from one to four nitrogen atoms 

and wherein A is unsubstituted mono or di substituted as described in Formula Ia. In a class of this embodiment A is unsubstituted mono or di substituted as described in Formula Ia and is selected from the group consisting of thienyl furanyl oxazolyl thiazolyl tetrazolyl pyridinyl and phenyl and particularly thiazolyl pyridinyl and phenyl. In a sub class of this embodiment A is selected from phenyl optionally substituted at the 3 or 4 position with a substituent selected from F OCF OCHF CN CHand OCH and optionally substituted at the 2 position with F. More particularly A is 4 fluoro phenyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula Ia Ib Ic and I wherein X is S . In another embodiment are compounds of Formula Ia Ib Ic and I wherein X is O .

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula Ia wherein Y is selected from NR CHRand NR C O . In a class of this embodiment Y is NR CHR and in a sub class Y is NR CH . In another embodiment are compounds of Formula Ia wherein Y is selected from S and O .

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formula Ia wherein Ris selected from H and Calkyl. In a class of this embodiment Ris selected from H and CH and in a further sub class Ris H.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H OH F Calkyl OCH and OC O CH. In a class of this embodiment Ris selected from H and OH and more particularly it is OH.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro Ccycloalkyl and phenyl. In a class of this embodiment Ris selected from CH CH Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF and cyclopropyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl Calkyl substituted with one or more of fluoro Calkyl substituted with R and Ccycloalkyl. In a class of this embodiment Ris selected from CH CH Calkyl substituted with fluoro particularly CFand CFCF cyclopropyl and CHCOOCalkyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Rand Rtogether represent oxo or Rand Rtogether with the carbon to which they are attached represent a Ccycloalkyl ring.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib and Ic wherein Ris selected from H CH F and Cl. In a class of this embodiment Ris selected from H and CH.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib and I wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H CHand COCH. In a class of this embodiment Ris H.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia and Ib wherein Ris selected from the group consisting of H and Calkyl. In a subclass of this embodiment Ris H.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris COOR and particularly COOCalkyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris selected from H and Calkyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Ris selected from H and Calkyl.

In another embodiment of this invention are compounds of Formulas Ia Ib Ic and I wherein Z is unsubstituted mono or di substituted as described in Formula Ia and is selected from the group consisting of phenyl benzyl pyridinyl thiazolyl dioxolanyl and tetrazolyl. In a class of this embodiment Z is unsubstituted mono or di substituted and is selected from the group consisting of phenyl pyridinyl and thiazolyl.

The compounds of this invention including compounds referenced as those of Formula I Formula Ia Formula Ib Formula Ic or any other generic structural formulas used herein to describe the compounds of this invention are intended to encompass compounds falling within the scope of each of these structural formulas including pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters and solvates thereof where such salts esters and solvates are possible. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases such as for example a sodium salt which could be prepared using NaOH. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters of available hydroxy or carboxylic acid groups can optionally be formed as well. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters include but are not limited to Calkyl and Calkyl substituted with phenyl dimethylamino and acetylamino.

Some of the compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric chiral centers and may thus exist as racemic mixtures and optical isomers including enantio enriched mixtures single enantiomers diastereomers and mixtures of diastereomers. The present invention is meant to comprehend all such possible enantiomers and diastereomers as well as their racemic and resolved enantiomerically pure and substantially pure forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of compounds of the present invention may exist as polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention. Some of the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds. The invention includes both E and Z geometric isomers.

Compounds of this invention may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by e.g. fractional crystallization from suitable solvents e.g. methylene chloride hexanes or EtOAc hexanes or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Alternatively any stereoisomer of a compound of this invention may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

As used herein alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms e.g. methyl Me ethyl Et n propyl Pr n butyl Bu n pentyl n hexyl and the isomers thereof such as isopropyl i Pr isobutyl i Bu secbutyl s Bu tertbutyl t Bu isopentyl isohexyl and the like. Cycloalkyl means a monocyclic saturated carbocyclic ring having the specified number of carbon atoms e.g. 3 4 5 or 6 carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

The term Calkenyl as used herein refers to a straight or branched 2 6 carbon chain with at least one carbon carbon double bond. Examples of alkenyl include but are not limited to vinyl CH CH allyl isopropenyl pentenyl hexenyl heptenyl 1 propenyl 2 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl and the like. The term Ccycloalkenyl as used herein means a non aromatic monocyclic ring having from 5 to 7 carbon atoms in the ring with at least one carbon carbon double bond.

Within the definition of variables above Rand Rcan be joined together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a Ccycloalkenyl ring wherein there is no double bond at the C 1 position in the ring. The C 1 position is intended to be the ring carbon in the cycloalkenyl ring that is bonded to the core oxadiazolyl or thiadiazolyl ring in the generic structural formulas depicted herein. In this situation C 1 is also bonded to R. This is illustrated below using the example where Rand Rare joined together with the carbon to which they are attached to form a 3 4 cyclopentenyl ring see a 

The term optionally substituted means unsubstituted or substituted and therefore the generic structural formulas described herein encompasses compounds containing the specified optional substituent as well as compounds that do not contain the optional substituent. For example the phrase C O phenyl optionally substituted with Calkyl encompasses unsubstituted C O phenyl and C O phenyl substituted with Calkyl. Each variable is independently defined each time it occurs within the generic structural formula definitions. For example when Ris CRROH Ris independently selected at each occurrence and each Rcan be the same or different.

Use of the term substituted is intended to encompass mono and poly substitution on the specified moiety unless otherwise specified. A mono substituted moiety has one substituent while a poly substituted moiety has more than one substituent wherein each carbon atom as well as heteroatom such as nitrogen if present that is available for substitution in the moiety may independently be unsubstituted mono or poly substituted and which results in the creation of a stable structure. For example Calkyl optionally substituted with fluoro includes CH CHF CHFand CF.

The terms halo or halogen are meant to include fluoro chloro bromo and iodo unless otherwise noted. Fluoro and chloro are preferred and fluoro is most preferred.

Examples of 5 membered aromatic rings within the definitions of A and Z include but are not limited to thienyl furanyl oxazolyl thiazolyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl and tetrazolyl represented by the structural formulas below 

Examples of 6 membered aromatic rings comprised of carbon and one two or three of N within the definition of A and Z include but are not limited to pyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl and triazinyl represented by the structural formulas below 

The ability of the compounds of this invention to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. This inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to treat prevent or ameliorate atherosclerosis in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore the compounds of this invention can be used for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. A further aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A compound of the instant invention may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists.

Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient at risk for such an event. The patient may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

The method of this invention serves to prevent or slow new atherosclerotic lesion or plaque formation and to prevent or slow progression of existing lesions or plaques as well as to cause regression of existing lesions or plaques. Accordingly one aspect of this invention involves a method for halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis including halting or slowing atherosclerotic plaque progression comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. This method also includes halting or slowing progression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun i.e. existing atherosclerotic plaques as well as halting or slowing formation of new atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerosis.

Another aspect of this invention involves a method for regression of atherosclerosis including regression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Another aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment. Another aspect of this invention involves a method for treating preventing or ameliorating angina and or myocardial ischemia comprising administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount as appropriate of a compound of this invention to a patient in need of such treatment.

Additionally the activity of the instant compounds as leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors makes them useful for treating preventing or ameliorating 1 pulmonary disorders including diseases such as asthma chronic bronchitis and related obstructive airway diseases 2 allergies and allergic reactions such as allergic rhinitis contact dermatitis allergic conjunctivitis and the like 3 inflammation such as arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease 4 pain 5 skin disorders such as atopic eczema and the like 6 cardiovascular disorders such hypertension platelet aggregation and the like 7 renal insufficiency arising from ischaemia induced by immunological or chemical cyclosporin etiology and 8 migraine or cluster headache 9 ocular conditions such as uveitis 10 hepatitis resulting from chemical immunological or infectious stimuli 11 trauma or shock states such as burn injuries endotoxemia and the like 12 allograft rejection 13 prevention of side effects associated with therapeutic administration of cytokines such as Interleukin II and tumor necrosis factor 14 chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis bronchitis and other small and large airway diseases 15 cholecystitis 16 multiple sclerosis 17 proliferation of myoblastic leukemia cells and 18 acne.

Thus the compounds of the present invention may also be used to treat or prevent mammalian especially human disease states such as erosive gastritis erosive esophagitis diarrhea cerebral spasm premature labor spontaneous abortion dysmenorrhea ischemia noxious agent induced damage or necrosis of hepatic pancreatic renal or myocardial tissue liver parenchymal damage caused by hepatoxic agents such as CCland D galactosamine ischemic renal failure disease induced hepatic damage bile salt induced pancreatic or gastric damage trauma or stress induced cell damage and glycerol induced renal failure. Leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors also act as inhibitors of tumor metastasis and exhibit cytoprotective action.

The cytoprotective activity of a compound may be observed in both animals and man by noting the increased resistance of the gastrointestinal mucosa to the noxious effects of strong irritants for example the ulcerogenic effects of aspirin or indomethacin. In addition to lessening the effect of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs on the gastrointestinal tract animal studies show that cytoprotective compounds will prevent gastric lesions induced by oral administration of strong acids strong bases ethanol hypertonic saline solutions and the like. Two assays can be used to measure cytoprotective ability. These assays are A an ethanol induced lesion assay and B an indomethacin induced ulcer assay and are described in EP 140 684. In particular the compounds of the invention would be useful to reduce the gastric erosion caused by co administration of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor such as rofecoxib VIOXX etoricoxib ARCOXIA celecoxib CELEBREX and valdecoxib BEXTRA and low dose aspirin.

In addition the compounds of this invention can also be used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . As described in S. Kilfeather Chest 2002 vol 121 197 airway neutrophilia in COPD patients is believed to be a contributing source of inflammation and is associated with airway remodeling. The presence of neutrophils is mediated in part by LTB and treatment with the instant compounds could be used to reduce neutrophilic inflammation in patients with COPD.

Furthermore the compounds of this invention could be used for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease see Manev H. and Manev R. 5 5 5 Medical Hypotheses 2006 66 p. 501 503.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk for diseases and medical conditions affected by inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The magnitude of prophylactic or therapeutic dose of a compound of this invention will of course vary with the nature of the severity of the condition to be treated and with the particular compound and its route of administration. It will also vary according to the age weight and response of the individual patient. In general the daily dose range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti allergic or anti atherosclerotic use and generally uses other than cytoprotection lie within the range of from about 0.001 mg to about 100 mg per kg body weight of a mammal preferably 0.01 mg to about 10 mg per kg and most preferably 0.1 to 1 mg per kg in single or divided doses. On the other hand it may be necessary to use dosages outside these limits in some cases. As examples the total daily dosage amount may be selected from but not limited to 1 mg 5 mg 10 mg 15 mg 20 mg 25 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 200 mg and 250 mg in single or divided daily doses.

In the case where an oral composition is employed a suitable dosage range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti allergic or anti atherosclerotic use is e.g. from about 0.01 mg to about 100 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day preferably from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg per kg and for cytoprotective use from 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 10 mg to about 100 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day.

For use where a composition for intravenous administration is employed a suitable dosage range for anti asthmatic anti inflammatory anti atherosclerotic or anti allergic use is from about 0.001 mg to about 25 mg preferably from 0.01 mg to about 1 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day and for cytoprotective use from about 0.1 mg to about 100 mg preferably from about 1 mg to about 100 mg and more preferably from about 1 mg to about 10 mg of a compound of this invention per kg of body weight per day.

For the treatment of diseases of the eye ophthalmic preparations for ocular administration comprising 0.001 1 by weight solutions or suspensions of the compounds of this invention in an acceptable ophthalmic formulation may be used.

The exact amount of a compound of this invention to be used as a cytoprotective agent will depend on inter alia whether it is being administered to heal damaged cells or to avoid future damage on the nature of the damaged cells e.g. gastrointestinal ulcerations vs. nephrotic necrosis and on the nature of the causative agent. An example of the use of a compound of this invention in avoiding future damage would be co administration of a compound of this invention with an NSAID that might otherwise cause such damage for example indomethacin . For such use the compound of this invention is administered from 30 minutes prior up to 30 minutes after administration of the NSAID. Preferably it is administered prior to or simultaneously with the NSAID for example in a combination dosage form .

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a compound of this invention as an active ingredient and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients. Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing a mammal especially a human with an effective dosage of a compound of the present invention. For example oral rectal topical parenteral ocular pulmonary nasal and the like may be employed. Dosage forms include tablets troches dispersions suspensions solutions capsules creams ointments aerosols and the like. For use in treating or preventing atherosclerosis and related disease events oral formulation is preferred.

The compositions include compositions suitable for oral rectal topical parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous ocular ophthalmic pulmonary nasal or buccal inhalation or nasal administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the nature and severity of the conditions being treated and on the nature of the active ingredient. They may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy.

For administration by inhalation the compounds of the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or nebulisers. The compounds may also be delivered as powders which may be formulated and the powder composition may be inhaled with the aid of an insufflation powder inhaler device. The preferred delivery system for inhalation is a metered dose inhalation MDI aerosol which may be formulated as a suspension or solution of a compound of this invention in suitable propellants such as fluorocarbons or hydrocarbons.

Suitable topical formulations of a compound of this invention include transdermal devices aerosols creams ointments lotions dusting powders and the like.

In practical use the compounds of this invention can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed such as for example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like in the case of oral liquid preparations such as for example suspensions elixirs and solutions or carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like in the case of oral solid preparations such as for example powders capsules and tablets with the solid oral preparations being preferred over the liquid preparations. Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit form in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers are obviously employed. If desired tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.

In addition to the common dosage forms set out above the compounds of this invention may also be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 845 770 3 916 899 3 536 809 3 598 123 3 630 200 4 008 719 and 5 366 738 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as a powder or granules or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous liquid a non aqueous liquid an oil in water emulsion or a water in oil liquid emulsion. Such compositions may be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy but all methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more necessary ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product into the desired presentation. For example a tablet may be prepared by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Desirably each tablet cachet or capsule contains from about 1 mg to about 500 mg of the active ingredient. The following are examples of representative pharmaceutical dosage forms for the compounds of this invention 

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of this invention with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for the treatment of asthma allergies and allergic conditions inflammation COPD or erosive gastritis. Additionally the medicament may be useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. The medicament comprised of a compound of this invention may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described below.

One or more additional active agents may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention in a single dosage formulation or the active agents of the combination may be administered to the patient in separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents.

In addition to the compounds of this invention the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can also contain other active agents i.e. ingredients such as cyclooxygenase inhibitors non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs peripheral analgesic agents such as zomepirac diflunisal and the like. The weight ratio of the compound of this invention to the second active ingredient may be varied and will depend upon the effective dose of each ingredient. Generally an effective dose of each will be used. Thus for example when a compound of this invention is combined with an NSAID the weight ratio of the compound of said compound to the NSAID will generally range from about 1000 1 to about 1 1000 preferably about 200 1 to about 1 200. Combinations of a compound of this invention and other active ingredients will generally also be within the aforementioned range but in each case an effective dose of each active ingredient should be used.

NSAIDs can be characterized into five groups 1 propionic acid derivatives 2 acetic acid derivatives 3 fenamic acid derivatives 4 oxicams and 5 biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The propionic acid derivatives which may be used comprise alminoprofen benoxaprofen bucloxic acid carprofen fenbufen fenoprofen fluprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen indoprofen ketoprofen miroprofen naproxen oxaprozin pirprofen prano profen suprofen tiaprofenic acid and tioxaprofen. Structurally related propionic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be included in this group. Thus propionic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs having a free CH CH COOH or CHCHCOOH group which optionally can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt group e.g. CH CH COONa or CHCHCOONa typically attached directly or via a carbonyl function to a ring system preferably to an aromatic ring system.

The acetic acid derivatives which may be used comprise indomethacin which is a preferred NSAID acemetacin alclofenac clidanac diclofenac fenclofenac fenclozic acid fentiazac furofenac ibufenac isoxepac oxpinac sulindac tiopinac tolmetin zidometacin and zomepirac. Structurally related acetic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus acetic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs having a free CHCOOH group which optionally can be in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt group e.g. CHCOONa typically attached directly to a ring system preferably to an aromatic or heteroaromatic ring system.

The fenamic acid derivatives which may be used comprise flufenamic acid meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid niflumic acid and tolfenamic acid. Structurally related fenamic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus fenamic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which contain the basic structure 

The biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives which can be used comprise diflunisal and flufenisal. Structurally related biphenyl carboxylic acid derivatives having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus biphenylcarboxylic acid derivatives as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which contain the basic structure 

The oxicams which can be used in the present invention comprise isoxicam piroxicam sudoxicam and tenoxican. Structurally related oxicams having similar analgesic and anti inflammatory properties are also intended to be encompassed by this group. Thus oxicams as defined herein are non narcotic analgesics non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs which have the general formula 

The following NSAIDs may also be used amfenac sodium aminoprofen anitrazafen antrafenine auranofin bendazac lysinate benzydanine beprozin broperamole bufezolac cinmetacin ciproquazone cloximate dazidamine deboxamet delmetacin detomidine dexindoprofen diacerein di fisalamine difenpyramide emorfazone enfenamic acid enolicam epirizole etersalate etodolac etofenamate fanetizole mesylate fenclorac fendosal fenflumizole feprazone floctafenine flunixin flunoxaprofen fluproquazone fopirtoline fosfosal furcloprofen glucametacin guaimesal ibuproxam isofezolac isonixim isoprofen isoxicam lefetamine HCl leflunomide lofemizole lonazolac calcium lotifazole loxoprofen lysin clonixinate meclofenamate sodium meseclazone nabumetone nictindole nimesulide orpanoxin oxametacin oxapadol perisoxal citrate pimeprofen pimetacin piproxen pirazolac pirfenidone proglumetacin maleate proquazone pyridoxiprofen sudoxicam talmetacin talniflumate tenoxicam thiazolinobutazone thielavin B tiaramide HCl tiflamizole timegadine tolpadol tryptamid and ufenamate. The following NSAIDs designated by company code number see e.g. Pharmaprojects may also be used 480156S AA861 AD1590 AFP802 AFP860 AI77B AP504 AU8001 BPPC BW540C CHINOIN 127 CN100 EB382 EL508 F1044 GV3658 ITF182 KCNTEI6090 KME4 LA2851 MR714 MR897 MY309 ONO3144 PR823 PV102 PV108 R830 RS2131 SCR152 SH440 SIR133 SPAS510 SQ27239 ST281 SY6001 TA60 TAI 901 4 benzoyl 1 indancarboxylic acid TVX2706 U60257 UR2301 and WY41770.

Finally NSAIDs which may also be used include the salicylates specifically acetyl salicylic acid and the phenylbutazones and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In addition to indomethacin other preferred NSAIDs are acetyl salicylic acid diclofenac fenbufen fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen ketoprofen naproxen phenylbutazone piroxicam sulindac and tolmetin. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds of this invention may also contain inhibitors of the biosynthesis of the leukotrienes such as are disclosed in EP 138 481 Apr. 24 1985 EP 115 394 Aug. 8 1984 EP 136 893 Apr. 10 1985 and EP 140 709 May 8 1985 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The compounds of this invention may also be used in combination with leukotriene antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 106 565 Apr. 25 1984 and EP 104 885 Apr. 4 1984 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference and others known in the art such as those disclosed in EP Application Nos. 56 172 Jul. 21 1982 and 61 800 Jun. 10 1982 and in U.K. Patent Specification No. 2 058 785 Apr. 15 1981 which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising compounds of this invention may also contain as the second active ingredient prostaglandin antagonists such as those disclosed in EP 11 067 May 28 1980 or thromboxane antagonists such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 237 160. They may also contain histidine decarboxylase inhibitors such as fluoromethylhistidine described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 325 961. The compounds of this invention may also be advantageously combined with an Hor H receptor antagonist such as for instance acetamazole aminothiadiazoles disclosed in EP 40 696 Dec. 2 1981 benadryl cimetidine famotidine framamine histadyl phenergan ranitidine terfenadine and like compounds such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 283 408 4 362 736 and 4 394 508. The pharmaceutical compositions may also contain a K H ATPase inhibitor such as omeprazole disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 255 431 and the like. Compounds of this invention may also be usefully combined with most cell stabilizing agents such as 1 3 bis 2 carboxychromon 5 yloxy 2 hydroxypropane and related compounds described in British Patent Specifications 1 144 905 and 1 144 906. Another useful pharmaceutical composition comprises compounds of this invention in combination with serotonin antagonists such as methysergide the serotonin antagonists described in 316 126 131 1985 and the like. Each of the references referred to in this paragraph is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Other advantageous pharmaceutical compositions comprise the compounds of this invention in combination with anti cholinergics such as ipratropium bromide bronchodilators such as the beta agonist salbutamol metaproterenol terbutaline fenoterol and the like and the anti asthmatic drugs theophylline choline theophyllinate and enprofylline the calcium antagonists nifedipine diltiazem nitrendipine verapamil nimodipine felodipine etc. and the corticosteroids hydrocortisone methylprednisolone betamethasone dexamethasone beclomethasone and the like.

Furthermore additional active agents such as anti atherosclerotic agents may be used in combination with the compounds of this invention. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid altering compounds such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid altering effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitors useful for this purpose include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin MEVACOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin ZOCOR see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 dihydroxy open acid simvastatin particularly the ammonium or calcium salts thereof pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof PRAVACHOL see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof LESCOL see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof LIPITOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 nisvastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 . Additional active agents which may be employed in combination with a compound of this invention include but are not limited to HMG CoA synthase inhibitors cholesterol absorption inhibitors such as ezetimibe ZETIA which is 1 4 fluorophenyl 3 R 3 S 4 fluorophenyl 3 hydroxypropyl 4 S 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 azetidinone described in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 37721 and 5 846 966 cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example JTT 705 Japan Tobacco Company and torcetrapib Pfizer squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors probucol niacin bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example troglitazone pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists such as muraglitazar vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyancobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABC1 gene expression FXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium and cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as rofecoxib and celecoxib.

Compounds of this invention can be tested using the following assays to determine their mammalian leukotriene biosynthesis inhibiting activity. Representative tested compounds of this invention were shown to be inhibitors of leukotriene biosynthesis with most having an ICless than or equal to 4 M in the Human 5 Lipoxygenase Enzyme Assay described below with preferred compounds tested in this assay having an ICless than or equal to 0.100 M. The representative tested compounds were also shown to have activity as 5 LO inhibitors in the 5 Lipoxygenase Human Whole Blood Assay described below with most having an ICless than or equal to 4 M and preferred compounds having an ICof less than or equal to 0.500 M.

The activity of 5 lipoxygenase was measured using a spectrophotometric assay and recombinant human 5 lipoxygenase as a source of enzyme. Human 5 lipoxygenase was purified from Sf9 cells infected with the recombinant baculovirus rvH5LO 8 1 containing the coding sequence for human 5 lipoxygenase as described by Percival et al. Eur. J. Biochem 210 109 117 1992 . The enzymatic activity was measured using a spectrophotometric assay from the optimal rate of conjugated diene formation absorbance at 238 nm using the procedure described in Riendeau et al. Biochem. Pharmacol. 38 2313 2321 1989 with minor modifications. The incubation mixture contained 25 mM potassium phosphate pH 7.5 0.1 mM EDTA 0.3 mM CaCl 24 g ml phosphatidylcholine 0.1 mM ATP 0.5 mM DTT 20 M arachidonic acid 2 l from a 100 fold solution in ethanol inhibitor 2 l aliquot from a 100 fold solution in DMSO and an aliquot of purified 5 lipoxygenase. Reactions were initiated by the addition of the purified 5 lipoxygenase and the rate of conjugated diene production was followed for 5 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was performed in a Costar UV plate Cat. 3635 and the absorbance changes at 238 nm were recorded with a Molecular Devices UV VIS 96 well spectrophotometer Spectra Max 190 using SOFTmax PRO software. Enzymatic activity was calculated from the optimal rate of the reaction by a linear fit of the increase in absorbance at 238 nm over 36 seconds. When the rate of diene formation is low 

Fresh blood was collected in heparinized tubes by venipuncture from consenting volunteers. These volunteers have no apparent inflammatory conditions and have not taken any nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs for at least 4 days prior to blood collection. Plasma was separated from the blood of each individual volunteer by centrifuging approximately 10 mls of blood. A 50 mM stock solution of the calcium ionophore A23187 Sigma St Louis Mo. USA in DMSO was diluted 40 fold with each volunteer s plasma to obtain a 1.25 mM working solution. A 250 l aliquot of each blood was pre incubated with either 0.5 l of vehicle DMSO or test compounds in DMSO at 37 C. for 15 minutes. This was followed with the addition of 5 l of either plasma or the 1.25 mM working solution for each experiment the blood and plasma was from the same volunteer resulting in a final concentration of 25 M of A23187. The blood mixture was incubated at 37 C. for 30 minutes then centrifuged at 1500 g at 4 C. for 10 minutes. The supernatant plasma was collected from all samples and stored at 4 C. All supernatant plasma samples were tested for the production of leukotriene B LTB using the LTBenzyme immunosorbent assay EIA kit from Assay Designs Ann Arbor Mich. USA according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Compounds of this invention may be prepared employing general synthetic procedures known in the art including methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 and PCT publication WO2004 108720 published Dec. 16 2004 both publications herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. The synthetic routes outlined in the following methods reaction schemes and Examples are provided for illustrative purposes. Groups designated R in the general schemes as well as solvents temperatures and others reaction conditions may be selected or modified by one of ordinary skill in the art. Functional groups can be either protected or converted to other functional groups. For example amino groups can be acylated with an acyl chloride or and anhydride with a mild base such as KCOor nitrogen base. Esters can be converted to tertiary alcohols with a Grignard reagent or an alkyl lithium reagents.

Some abbreviations used herein include Ac acyl AIBN 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile BuLI is n butyllithium CAN cerium ammonium nitrate DAST diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DBU 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DCC 1 3 dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCM dichloromethane DME ethylene glycol dimethyl ether DMF N N dimethylformamide DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide EtOH ethanol EtO diethyl ether EtN triethylamine EtOAc ethyl acetate h hours HOAc acetic acid KHMDS potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide LAH lithium aluminum hydride LDA lithium diisopropylamide m CPBA 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid MeOH methanol NBS N bromosuccinimide NMO 4 methylmorpholine N oxide NMP 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone OTf trifluoromethanesulfonate triflate O THP O tetrahydropyran 2 yl PPTS pyridinium p toluenesulfonate rt room temperature TBAF tetrabutylammonium fluoride TfO triflic anhydride TFA trifluoro acetic acid THF tetrahydrofuran TMSCN trimethylsilyl cyanide.

Oxadiazoles can be prepared for example according to literature procedures and references cited therein with the appropriate starting material as follows White A. D. et. al. . 1996 39 4382 Futaki K. Tosa S. . 1960 8 908. 1966 64 3558a.

Thiadiazoles can be prepared for example according to literature procedures and references cited therein with the appropriate starting material as follows Werber G. Buccheri F. Marino M. L. . 1975 12 581 Pandey V. K. et. al. . Sect. B 2003 42 2583 Shaban M. A. E. Mostafa M. A. Nasr A. Z. 2003 58 6 Miyamoto K. et al. 1985 33 5126 Yokohama S. et. al. . 1992 40 2391 White A. D. et al. . 1996 39 4382 Bartels Keith J. R. Burgess M. T. Stevenson J. M. . 1977 42 3725.

METHOD A see scheme below Compound 1 is prepared according to procedures described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 and WO2004 108720. The methyl group is converted to the mono or dibromo 2 with NBS and heating in an inert solvent such as CClin the presence of a radical initiator such as benzoyl peroxide AIBN or light. The monobromo compound 2 is treated with an excess of NMO at ca. 100 C. in a solvent like dioxane until complete conversion to the aldehyde 8. Alternatively the dibromo analog of 2 treated with AgNOin dioxane water at reflux for a short time gave the aldehyde 8. The aldehyde 8 is also obtained from the dibromo analog of 2 with a hot solution of NHOAc in HOAc water can be added .

Compound 4 is prepared at rt from a mixture of 2 monobromo and 3 in an inert solvent such as DMF in the presence of a weak base such as KCO. The acetyl is removed with a base such as NHOH in THF water to yield compound 5. The free NH is converted to N alkyls N alkyloyls or N arylolys with alkyl halides aliphatic acyl halides or aromatic acyl halides through a mild base in an inert solvent such as DCM.

The double bond of coumarin 5 is reduced to the single bond with hydrogen under pressure 40 60 psi and heating 40 60 C. with a catalyst such as palladium on charcoal in a suitable solvent for hydrogenation like ethanol. The hydrogenation can be accomplished at any point of any sequence.

METHOD B see scheme below The aldehyde 8 and the amine 9 are refluxed together with or without an acid catalyst such as PPTS in a solvent that forms an azeotrope such as toluene to yield the imine 10. This imine is reduced with NaBHor the like to the free NH 5 in ethanol or methanol. If R OH the imine 10 is treated with DAST in DCM at 78 C. brought to rt and then poured into a solution of NaBHin ethanol to afford the fluorinated analogue 11.

Alternatively imine 10 is reacted with Grignard reagents between 95 and 78 C. in THF or ether. The mixture is brought to 0 C. and quenched with NHCl to yield 12.

METHOD C see scheme below The coumarin 13 is treated with thiol 14 and an inorganic base such as KCOin DMF or NMP between 80 120 C. to afford compound 15. Alternatively the thiol 14 is treated with KOH in methanol for a few minutes and the solvent is removed to dryness. To this potassium salt is added the coumarin 13 in NMP and the mixture is heated to 80 120 C. to yield 15. The coumarin 16 is prepared from the palladium catalyzed reaction of compound 13 in MeOH DMSO ca. 1 2 under an atmosphere of CO at 60 C. with a base such as triethylamine until completion.

METHOD D see scheme below To a 78 C. THF solution of 17 is added BuLi followed by chlorotrimethylsilane. The temperature is raised to 20 C. cooled back to 78 C. and BuLi is added followed by a reagent having a carbonyl group to furnish 18.

METHOD E see scheme below A solution of R methylthio thioxo acetate 20 where R is alkyl see 1977 vol. 17 366 and hydrazinecarbodithioic acid potassium salt 19 see 1983 105 2287 in EtOH is heated to reflux overnight. After cooling the reaction mixture is extracted with EtO and the solvent removed. The residue is purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel to give compound 21.

7 Bromo 4 trifluoromethanesulfonyloxycoumarin 25 can be prepared as shown below in Method F. Description of how to make 25 is also found in the procedures described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437 in Scheme I at columns 17 18 see structure V therein and in the section titled Preparation Of Coumarins starting at column 58 therein. Bromophenol 22 can be acetylated by treating a mixture of 22 and acetyl chloride in the presence of a base such as pyridine in a solvent such as dichloromethane to yield the corresponding acetate which upon heating neat with a Lewis acid such as aluminum chloride gives the acyl derivative 23. Reaction of 23 with first an inorganic base such as sodium hydride in an organic solvent such as benzene followed by addition of a carbonate such as diethylcarbonate furnishes the intermediate 24. The intermediate 24 is then transformed using trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride in the presence of an amine such as triethylamine in a neutral solvent such as dichloromethane to the corresponding triflate 25.

To a 80 C. suspension of NaH 60 g 1500 mmol 60 in toluene was added 1 2 hydroxy 4 methylphenyl ethanone 100 g 666 mmol also known as 2 hydroxy 4 methylacetophenone in 800 mL of toluene over 1 h. This was followed by the dropwise addition of diethyl carbonate 157 g 1.3 mol in 1000 ml of toluene over 1 h. The reaction mixture was left at 80 C. overnight. After cooling to rt the solution was poured into 1.6 L of HCl 2N . The precipitate formed was filtered collected and stirred in MeOH minimum amount . After filtration the title compound was dried overnight at 55 C. under high vacuum to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 12.45 1H s 7.58 1H d 7.13 2H m 6.53 1H s and 2.39 3H s .

To a 30 C. solution of 4 hydroxy 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 50 g 284 mmol and triethylamine 48.8 g 482 mmol was added TfO 128.1 g 454 mmol in 120 ml of CHClvery slowly internal Temp. 

A mixture of the triflate 40 g 130 mmol p fluorophenylboronic acid 21.8 g 156 mmol Pd OAc 0.87 g 3.9 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 1.31 g 4.7 mmol and potassium fluoride 24.9 g 428 mmol in 500 mL of THF was stirred at rt overnight. The mixture was filtered over celite and the solvent removed. The crude product was then purified over a small pad of silica gel using CHCl. The solvent was removed and the resulting solid stirred with CHCl hexane 1 9 . After filtration the product was dried to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.62 2H m 7.39 3H m 7.25 1H s 7.15 1H d 6.29 1H s and 2.45 3H s .

A mixture of 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 24.0 94.3 mmol NBS 18.5 g 103.8 mmol and benzoyl peroxide 1.14 g 4.72 mmol in 470 mL of CClwas brought to reflux. The solution was left overnight at reflux and then filtered hot. Once cooled to rt the solvent was removed the compound was dissolved in CHCland a purification was done with a small pad of silica gel using hexane EtOAc 8 2 to 1 1 . The solvent was removed and the solid triturated with hexane EtOAc and filtered to give the title compound. The remaining solvent was removed to give additional compound contaminated with some starting material and dibromo compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.67 2H m 7.55 1H s 7.50 1H d 7.40 3H m 6.40 1H s and 4.75 2H s .

To a solution of S 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropionic acid 3.0 g 17.4 mmol in 60 ml of ether was added a solution of diazomethane in ether until a yellow coloration remained. The reaction mixture was then stirred 30 min at room temperature and concentrated to dryness to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 5.67 s 1H 3.85 s 3H 1.57 s 3H .

To a solution of methyl 2S 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanoate 3.26 g 19.0 mmol was added hydrazine monohydrate 2.1 ml . The mixture was heated at 130 C. for 90 min and cooled down to room temperature. After evaporation to dryness the residue was purified on a small bed of silica gel 100 EtOAc to afford the title compound.

To a solution of 2S 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropanohydrazide 3.0 g 17.5 mmol in water 17 ml was added cyanogen bromide 1.87 g 17.7 mmol and potassium bicarbonate 1.82 g 18.1 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred 30 min at rt until a white precipitate was formed. The precipitate was filtered and washed with water followed by a mixture of ether hexanes 1 1 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d6 6.57 bs 2H 6.20 bs 1H 1.80 s 3H .

7 Bromomethyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one can be prepared as described in Example 1A its preparation is also described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 437. 7 Bromomethyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 2H chromen 2 one 11.42 g 34.3 mmol and NMO 13.9 g 102.8 mmol in 110 mL of dioxane were heated to reflux for 6 h. The solution was cooled to rt and the solvent removed. The crude compound was diluted in EtOAc and washed with NHCl water brine and dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 10.20 1H s 7.95 1H s 7.85 1H m 7.68 3H m 7.38 2H m and 6.51 1H s .

A solution of the previous aldehyde 210 mg 0.78 mmol 2S 2 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluoropropan 2 ol 200 mg 1.02 mmol and PPTS 20 mg 0.08 mmol in 2 ml of toluene was heated under reflux with a Dean Stark trap for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled down and concentrated to dryness. Dry ethanol 2 ml was then added and the mixture cooled to 0 C. Sodium borohydride 30 mg 0.78 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction mixture was partitioned between aqueous NHCl and EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over anhydrous MgSO concentrated and purified on silica gel column chloroform ethanol 95 5 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.65 m 2H 7.5 m 3H 7.39 m 3H 6.35 s 1H 6.22 s 1H 4.70 d 2H J 6 Hz 1.81 s 3H .

To a suspension of 5 methoxy 2 methylaniline 5.00 g 36.4 mmol in water 144 mL at 10 C. was added conc. HSO 56 mL while maintaining internal temperature below 25 C. After 1 h at rt the mixture was cooled to 3 C. and a solution of sodium nitrite 3.77 g 54.7 mmol in water 20 mL was added dropwise over 30 min keeping the internal temperature below 5 C. After 1 h at 3 C. the yellow heterogeneous mixture was poured into a 5 C. solution of CuBr 52.0 g 364 mmol in 48 aqueous HBr 260 mL . The dark mixture was heated at 60 C. for 2 h allowed to cool to rt and extracted with EtO 3 solid NaSOwas added in the extraction process for partial decoloration . The combined organics were washed with 1 N NaOH 3 10 aq. NaSOand brine dried NaSO and concentrated affording the title compound as an orange liquid which was used without further purification in the next Step. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 7.24 d 1H 7.14 d 1H 6.87 dd 1H 3.80 s 3H 2.31 s 3H .

4 Fluorobenzoyl chloride 1.40 mL 11.9 mmol was added dropwise to a suspension of AlCl 1.73 g 13.0 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 30 mL at room temperature. After 15 min a solution of 3 bromo 4 methylanisole 2.17 g 10.8 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 3 mL was added dropwise. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 h poured into 200 mL of ice water stirred for 20 min and extracted with CHCl 3 . The combined organics were washed with 5 aq. NaHCO brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to chromatography on silica gel EtOAc hexane 5 95 affording the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 7.86 m 2H 7.38 s 1H 7.31 7.26 m 3H 3.76 s 3H 2.39 s 3H .

A solution of 4 bromo 2 methoxy 5 methylphenyl 4 fluorophenyl methanone 1.80 g 5.57 mmol in CHCl 6 mL was added over 10 min to a 0 C. solution of BBr 1.05 mL 11.1 mmol in the same solvent 14 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. After 1.5 h the reaction mixture was poured into 200 mL of ice water vigorously stirred for 10 min and extracted with CHCl 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried NaSO and concentrated affording the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 11.46 s 1H 7.88 m 2H 7.58 s 1H 7.37 m 2H 7.32 s 1H 2.34 s 3H .

 4 Bromo 2 hydroxy 5 methylphenyl 4 fluorophenyl methanone 1.61 g 5.21 mmol and methyl triphenylphosphoranylidene acetate 2.26 g 6.77 mmol were heated in refluxing toluene 15 mL for 24 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to rt and concentrated. The yellow solid obtained was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc toluene 0 to 2 to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 7.70 s 1H 7.66 m 2H 7.46 s 1H 7.39 m 2H 6.39 s 1H 2.40 s 3H .

DMSO 17 mL and EtN 0.828 mL 5.94 mmol were successively added to a suspension of 7 bromo 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 0.990 g 2.97 mmol and Pd dppf Cl.CHCl 0.485 g 0.594 mmol in MeOH 10 mL . The mixture was heated at 65 C. under an atmosphere of carbon monoxide for 18 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to rt poured into water 200 mL and extracted with CHCl 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc toluene 3 to 5 to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 7.85 s 1H 7.69 m 2H 7.44 s 1H 7.40 m 2H 6.47 s 1H 3.94 s 3H 2.54 s 3H .

To a solution of methyl 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 methyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylate 0.722 g 2.31 mmol in THF 23 mL was added a 1 N solution of LiOH 11.6 mL 11.6 mmol and the mixture was heated at 65 C. for 16 h. At room temperature the mixture was neutralized with 1 N HCl and concentrated. The residue was stirred with THF 25 mL and 2 N HCl 50 mL for 16 h. The precipitate produced was collected by filtration rinsed with water and dried affording the title compound that was used without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 13.40 br s 1H 7.80 s 1H 7.64 m 2H 7.44 m 2H 7.32 s 1H 6.54 s 1H 2.48 s 3H .

Isobutyl chloroformate 0.775 mL 5.97 mmol was added dropwise to 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 methyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylic acid 0.594 g 1.99 mmol and EtN 1.11 mL 7.96 mmol in THF 13 mL at 0 C. After 1 h a freshly prepared solution of NaBH0.377 g 9.96 mmol in water 10 mL was added rapidly. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h quenched using saturated. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with 1 N HCl 5 NaHCOand brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel EtOAc CHCl 30 70 then 35 65 then 40 60 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.65 m 2H 7.53 s 1H 7.38 m 2H 7.26 s 1H 6.30 s 1H 4.76 d 2H 4.55 t 1H 2.26 s 3H .

4 4 Fluorophenyl 7 hydroxymethyl 6 methyl 2H chromen 2 one 0.487 g 1.71 mmol in CHCl 350 mL was stirred with activated MnO 2.23 g 25.7 mmol for 65 h at rt. The reaction mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and the filtrate was concentrated to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 10.40 s 1H 7.86 s 1H 7.70 m 2H 7.46 s 1H 7.42 m 2H 6.53 s 1H 2.66 s 3H .

In a round bottom flask fitted with a condenser and a Dean Stark trap 4 4 fluorophenyl 6 methyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carbaldehyde 0.357 g 1.26 mmol and 2 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 0.32 g 1.52 mmol were heated in refluxing toluene 8 mL for 2 h in the presence of pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 32 mg 0.126 mmol . The mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and concentrated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in EtOH 6 mL cooled to 0 C. and NaBH 48.0 mg 1.26 mmol was added. After 15 min. at 0 C. the reaction was quenched with sat. NHCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic extracts were washed with water and brine dried NaSO and concentrated. The residue was subjected to column chromatography on silica gel EtOH CHCl 3 to 4 to afford the title compound. H NMR 500 MHz acetone d 7.66 m 2H 7.46 br s 2H 7.39 m 2H 7.33 s 1H 6.32 s 1H 6.09 br s 1H 4.68 d 2H 2.41 s 3H 2.24 m 1H 2.10 m 1H 1.00 t 3H .

To a 78 C. solution of 2 amino 1 3 4 thiadiazole commercially available 2.5 g 24.72 mmol in THF 200 mL 0.1M was added first n butyllithium 1.6M hexanes 30.9 mL 49.4 mmol followed 15 min later by chlorotrimethylsilane 6.27 mL 49.4 mmol . The temperature raised to 20 C. for 15 min and cooled back to 78 C. More n butyllithium 1.6M hexanes 15.45 mL 24.72 mmol was added followed 15 min later by 3 pentanone 2.62 mL 24.72 mmol . The solution was then warmed to rt overnight . The reaction mixture was quenched with a saturated NHCl solution and THF was removed under vacuum. The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography 100 EtOAc to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 6.3 bs 2H 4.4 bs 1H 2.0 1.7 m 4H 0.9 t 6H .

A mixture of 3 5 amino 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl pentan 3 ol 0.129 g 0.689 mmol 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carbaldehyde 0.200 g 0.746 mmol and acetic acid 7.94 L 0.138 mmol in benzene 2.5 mL was stirred overnight at reflux with a Dean Stark trap. After cooling the mixture was diluted in THF 5 mL and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 0.731 g 3.45 mmol was added. The mixture was then stirred at 45 C. for 3 h. The reaction was quenched with a saturated NaHCOsolution and portioned between EtOAc and water. The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude residue obtained was purified by column chromatography Hexane EtOAc MeOH 50 50 0 to 0 98 2 to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.7 m 2H 7.5 s 1H 7.45 s 1H 7.4 m 3H 6.35 s 1H 4.75 s 2H 4.5 bs 1H 2.0 1.75 m 4H 0.9 t 6H .

To a solution of ethyl magnesium bromide 200 mmol in 300 mL of THF at 0 C. was added a suspension of ethyl 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 carboxylate 8.00 g 50.9 mmol 1966 64 3558a in THF. The reaction mixture was brought to rt and 30 min later quenched with NHCl. After extraction with EtOAc and drying over MgSO the solvent was removed. The crude product thus obtained was triturated filtered and dried to yield the title compound.

A mixture of methyl 2 ethyl 2 hydroxybutanoate 19.7 g 134.7 mol and hydrazine hydrate 14 mL was heated to 130 C. for 4 h. The mixture was cooled to rt and excess reagent removed under vacuum to yield of the hydrazide. To this hydrazide and KHCO 13.8 g 138 mmol in 150 mL of water was added portionwise BrCN 13.8 g 131 mmol . After 90 min of stirring the white solid was filtered washed with ether and dried to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 6.20 bs 2H 4.25 s 1H 1.85 m 4H 0.88 t 6H .

A mixture of 3 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl pentan 3 ol 0.446 g 2.6 mmol and 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carbaldehyde 0.350 g 1.3 mmol in 5 mL of toluene was refluxed with a Dean Stark trap overnight. After cooling to rt the solvent was removed and the crude imine diluted in ethanol 8 ml at 0 C. Solid NaBH 49 mg was added to the solution and after 30 min of stirring aqueous NHCl was added to destroy the excess hydride. After dilution with EtOAc brine the organic phase was dried with MgSO. Purification on silica gel with toluene EtOAc 2 8 gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.67 m 2H 7.48 m 2H 7.37 m 3H 7.19 bt 1H 6.33 s 1H 4.66 m 2H 4.31 s 1H 1.85 m 4H 0.85 t 6H .

A solution of imine obtained in the previous step 270 mg 0.641 mmol in CHClwas added dropwise to a solution of diethylamino sulphur trifluoride 100 L 0.77 mmol in CHClprecooled to 78 C. The solution was stirred at 78 C. 5 min and warmed to room temperature. After 40 min at room temperature the reaction mixture was decanted rapidly to a solution of NaBH 0.20 g 5.3 mmol in EtOH 10 mL and stirred vigorously at room temperature for 5 min. The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and a saturated aq. solution of NHOAc NaCl. The phases were separated and the aqueous phase extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phases were dried over anhydrous MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel 20 60 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.60 7.67 m 2H 7.43 7.52 m 3H 7.34 7.40 m 3H 6.32 s 1H 4.68 d 2H 1.95 2.17 m 4H 0.91 t 6H .

To a solution of the imine prepared as described in Example 4 step 2 0.159 g 0.37 mmol in 5 mL of THF at 90 C. was added methylmagnesium bromide 0.79 mmol . The reaction mixture was brought to 0 C. and quenched with NHCl. After extraction with EtOAc drying with MgSO and evaporation the crude material was purified on silica gel with toluene EtOAc 2 8 to yield the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.66 m 2H 7.35 7.52 m 5H 7.19 d 1H 6.33 s 1H 4.95 m 1H 4.23 s 1H 1.72 m 4H 1.63 d 3H 0.80 m 6H .

Commercially available 7 hydroxy 4 3 pyridyl coumarin 1.48 g 6.19 mmol and triphenylphosphine dibromide 5.22 g 12.4 mmol are heated in a sand bath at 320 350 C. for 1.5 h. The cooled solid is taken up with ethanol 200 ml and silica gel 100 g and evaporated to dryness. Column chromatography toluene acetone 80 20 affords 7 bromo 4 pyridin 3 yl 2H chromen 2 one.

To a mixture of sulfur 5.23 g 163 mmol in DMF 100 ml was added triethylamine 34.1 ml 245 mmol and ethyl chloroacetate 10 g 81.6 mmol . After 3.5 h iodomethane 5.59 ml 89.8 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred 1 h at rt. EtO water was added and the organic layer was separated. The organic phase was wash with water 3 brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand the solvent removed to give the title compound which was used without further purification for the next step. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.38 q 2H 2.72 s 3H 1.34 t 3H .

Ethyl methylthio thioxo acetate 20.0 g 122 mmol and potassium hydrazinecarbodithioate R. S. Drago et al. 1983 105 2287 17.8 g 122 mmol were reflux overnight in ethanol 500 ml . The solution was concentrated and EtOAc was added. The organic phase was washed with 1M HCl brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent was evaporated and the residue purified on silica gel hexanes acetone 80 20 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.43 q 2H 1.38 t 3H .

To a solution of cyclopropylmagnesiumbromide 37 ml 0.5 M THF 18.4 mmol at 0 C. was slowly added a THF solution of ethyl 5 mercapto 1 3 4 thiadiazole 2 carboxylate 1 g 5.3 mmol . When half the solution was added the cooling bath was removed and the rest of the solution was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours then partitioned between aqueous NHCl and EtO. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with EtO. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel hexanes acetone 95 5 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 4.75 s 1H 1.39 1.26 m 2H 0.67 0.38 m 8H .

KOH 0.089 g 1.59 mmol was added to a solution of dicyclopropyl 5 mercapto 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl methanol 0.363 g 1.60 mmol in dry MeOH. When a solution was obtained the reaction mixture was concentrated to dryness. Dry toluene was then added and the mixture was concentrated to dryness again. The residue was dissolved in NMP 7 bromo 4 pyridin 3 yl 2H chromen 2 one 400 mg 1.32 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 120 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled and partitioned between aqueous NHOAc and EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO concentrated and purified on silica gel column toluene acetone 90 10 to 70 30 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.82 d 1H 8.72 s 1H 7.81 dt 1H 7.64 s 1H 7.58 7.50 m 1H 7.48 7.41 m 2H 6.46 s 1H 2.57 s 1H 1.40 1.31 m 2H 0.69 0.57 m 6H 0.50 0.44 m 1H .

To a 78 C. solution of ethyl trifluoropyruvate 129.0 g 758 mmol in ether was added dropwise within 90 min a solution of EtMgBr 3.0 M in ether 252 mL . The solution was brought over one 1 h to ca. 10 C. and poured over 2 L of saturated NHCl. The layers were separated and the aqueous phase extracted with ether 3 500 mL . The organic phases were combined dried over MgSO4 and the solvent removed. Distillation at 50 65 C. 30 mm Hg gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 5.4 s 1H 4.35 q 2H 2.07 m 1H 1.83 m 1H 1.3 t 3H and 0.93 t 3H .

The ethyl ester of step 1 50.04 g 250 mmol and hydrazine hydrate 25.03 g 50 mmol were heated at 80 C. for 18 h. The excess hydrazine was removed under vacuum and the crude product was filtered through a pad of silica gel with EtOAc Hexane ca. 3 L to furnish the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 9.7 s 1H 6.10 s 1H 2.25 m 1H 1.85 m 1H and 0.95 t 3H .

To hydrazide 34.07 g 183 mmol of step 2 in 275 mL of water was added KHCO 18.33 g 183 mmol followed by BrCN 19.39 g 183 mmol portionwise. After 3 h the solid was filtered washed with cold water and dried to afford the title compound. Additional compound could be recovered from the aqueous phase by extraction ether hexane 1 1 . H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 6.54 s 2H 6.01 s 1H 2.22 m 1H 2.08 m 1H and 0.99 m 3H .

A mixture of oxadiazole 14.41 g 68.2 mmol of step 3 and 4 4 fluorophenyl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carbaldehyde 14.1 g 52.5 mmol in toluene 160 mL with 10 of PPTS was brought to reflux and let go overnight. The system was equipped with a Dean Stark trap to collect water. The solvent was removed and the crude oil H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 9.33 1H s imine obtained was diluted in EtOH ca. 75 mL at 0 C. To this solution was added NaBH 1.9 g portionwise and the reaction was quenched with a solution of NHCl after 45 min. The mixture was saturated with NaCl and extracted with EtOAc 3 200 mL . The organic phases were combined and dried over MgSO. Purification over silica gel chromatography using toluene EtOAc 55 45 gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.65 m 2H 7.50 m 3H 7.38 m 3H 6.35 s 1H 6.06 s 1H 4.70 m 2H 2.21 m 1H 2.11 m 1H and 0.98 t 3H .

A solution of 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one 0.5 0.6 g in EtOH Hexane 30 70 ca. 40 mL was injected onto a CHIRALPAK AD preparative 5 cm 50 cm HPLC column eluting with EtOH Hexane 30 70 with UV detection at 280 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer having a retention time of 34 min for the enantiomer and the slower eluting enantiomer having a retention time of 49 min for the enantiomer.

The isomer of 4 4 fluorophenyl 7 5 1 hydroxy 1 trifluoromethyl propyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 ylamino methyl 2H chromen 2 one 0.100 g 0.22 mmol methyl iodide 2 mL and KCO 0.061 g 0.44 mmol were heated at 50 C. until the disappearance of starting material. The mixture was cooled to rt and diluted with EtOAc water. The organic layer was separated dried and the solvent removed. Purification on silica gel toluene acetone 8 2 gave the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 7.68 m 2H 7.51 d 1H 7.48 s 1H 7.39 m 3H 6.49 s 1H 6.12 s 1H 4.8 q 2H 3.17 s 3H 2.26 m 1H 2.09 m 1H 1.02 t 3H .

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 trifluoromethanesulfonyloxycoumarin 5.1 g 13.7 mmol in dioxane is added tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 4.8 mL 14.2 mmol PhP Pd 0.790 g 0.7 mmol and LiCl 1.74 g 41 mmol . The mixture is refluxed for 4 h cooled and partitioned between aqueous NHCl and EtOAc. The layers are separated and the aqueous phase is extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers are washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent is evaporated and the residue is chromatographed on silica gel CHCl EtOAc 95 5 and triturated in hexane EtO to give the title compound.

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 1 ethoxyvinyl 2H chromen 2 one 2.0 g 6.8 mmol in THF and HO is added N bromosuccinimide 1.3 g 14.2 mmol with stirring for 30 min. Toluene is added and the solvent is evaporated. The residue is chromatographed on silica gel hexane EtOAc 80 20 to give the title compound.

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 bromoacetyl 2H chromen 2 one 0.605 g 1.7 mmol in DMF is added thioacetamide 0.138 g 1.8 mmol . The mixture is stirred 24 h at rt and at 100 C. overnight. Once cool to rt it is partitioned between aqueous NHCl and EtOAc. The layers are separated and the aqueous phase is extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers are washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The solvent is evaporated and the residue swished in hexanes EtO to give the title compound.

To a solution of 7 bromo 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one 1.17 g 3.63 mmol in DMSO 21 ml and methanol 12 ml was added triethylamine 1.0 mL 7.26 mmol and Pd dppf Cl CHCl 0.593 g 0.73 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred overnight at 65 C. with a balloon of carbon monoxide. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc CHCl 9 1 washed with water 3 and brine. The organic phase was dried over MgSOand evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified on silica gel hexanes EtOAc 8 2 to afford the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.45 m 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.92 m 2H 6.80 s 1H 3.97 s 3H 2.85 s 3H .

To a solution of methyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylate 1.0 g 3.32 mmol in THF 33 ml was added lithium hydroxide 1 M 16.6 ml 16.6 mmol . The reaction was heated at 65 C. for 90 min cooled to rt and evaporated. A solution of HCl 2N was then added to the residue and the mixture stirred for 1 h. The powder was filtered to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 8.37 m 1H 8.28 s 1H 7.87 m 2H 6.85 s 1H 2.80 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carboxylic acid 0.692 g 2.41 mmol in THF 16 ml at 0 C. was added triethylamine 1.3 ml 9.63 mmol followed by isobutyl chloroformate 0.94 ml 7.23 mmol over 15 min. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and sodium borohydride 0.456 g 12.0 mmol in water 12 ml was added. The reaction mixture was stirred 1 h at 0 C. quenched with a solution of NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with brine dried over MgSOand evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel hexanes EtOAc 4 6 to 2 8 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.22 m 1H 8.05 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 7.35 m 1H 6.62 s 1H 4.80 m 2H 4.55 m 1H 2.82 s 3H .

To a solution of 7 hydroxymethyl 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2H chromen 2 one 0.387 g 1.42 mmol in CHCl 7 ml was added MnO 1.85 g 21.2 mmol and stirred at rt for 4 h. A second portion of MnO 1.85 g 21.2 mmol was added and 3 h later the reaction mixture was filtered on celite evaporated to dryness and purified by trituration in CHCl MeOH 9 1 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 10.12 s 1H 8.45 m 1H 8.31 s 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.85 m 1H 6.9 s 1H 2.80 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl 2 oxo 2H chromene 7 carbaldehyde 0.200 g 0.74 mmol and 2 5 amino 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 1 1 1 trifluorobutan 2 ol 0.202 g 0.96 mmol in toluene 2 ml was added PPTS 0.019 g 0.07 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated under reflux with a Dean Stark trap for 6 h. After evaporation the residue was diluted in EtOH 2 ml cooled to 0 C. and sodium borohydride 28 mg 0.74 mmol was added. After 15 min the reaction was quenched with a saturated solution of NHCl extract with EtOAc then washed with water and brine. The solvent was evaporated and the residue chromatographed on silica gel chloroform ethanol 95 5 to give the title compound. H NMR 400 MHz acetone d 8.27 d 1H 8.09 s 1H 7.45 m 3H 6.66 s 1H 6.08 s 1H 4.7 d 2H 2.83 s 3H 2.22 m 1H 2.10 m 1H 0.98 m 3H .

