---

title: Systems and methods for context drilling in workforce optimization
abstract: The systems and methods described herein provide a drill through engine that facilitates integration of solutions for performing workforce management, quality monitoring, e-learning, performance management, and analytics functionality. The drill through engine facilitates combining quality monitoring/call recording with performance management and e-learning functionality as a unified integrated solution. The combination can be delivered through a single platform and enables users to gain more insight and make smarter decisions faster about sales, service, and overall operations. This takes customer center tools beyond the traditional “suite” approach to a true single workforce optimization platform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949552&OS=07949552&RS=07949552
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07949552
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060927
---
The present application is a continuation in part of copending U.S. utility application entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization having Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed Feb. 22 2006 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

The business of a call center also known as a customer center is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers or prospective customers . Conventional customer center systems determine if agents are being productive and meeting customer center targets called adherence by tracking phone usage of agents. In addition to talking to a customer on the phone such an agent usually spends time using a PC or workstation application that runs for example a customer relationship manager CRM and a customer account database among others. The proficiency of an agent on these applications therefore impacts overall customer center productivity. However conventional customer center systems do not utilize information about application usage when providing adherence information.

Today s customer centers often support various interaction methods and media including phone e mail video conferencing and messaging applications. Customer center systems typically allow some or all of these interactions to be recorded. The recordings may be reviewed later for compliance with business or government regulations or for quality assurance. These systems also allow a supervisor to monitor interactions typically to determine if an agent is adhering to customer center policies.

In conventional customer center systems the playback of recorded interactions and live monitoring of interactions occurs in an interactions application sometimes known as a contacts application. A separate schedule adherence application is used to compare agents scheduled activities with agents actual activities and to provide information about adherence exceptions to the scheduled activities.

Systems and methods are disclosed for a context drilling process for optimizing operations at for example a customer center. In one embodiment the process comprises the steps of monitoring for an occurrence of an exception to agent adherence the agent adherence being determined from agent activities at the customer center associating the exception to the agent adherence with the agent activity at the customer center associating the exception to a drill through option and responsive to selecting the drill through option providing information indicating that the agent activity which is the root cause of the exception to the agent adherence.

Customer center includes but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Disclosed herein is a system and method for context drilling in workforce optimization. For example a user can be shown on a display device a summary of various categories of agent quality monitoring. Each summary can include a drill through option that allows the user to find more information about the summary of the various categories. The drill through option obtains the information through the workforce optimization platform that integrates the following 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leverage best practice customer interactions and deliver learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. The five segments among others can become part of an interwoven and interoperable solution enabling customer centers to transition from reactive cost centers to proactive information rich departments that deliver strategic value to the organization.

Further the integrated workforce optimization platforms disclosed herein provide closed loop systems for continuous performance improvement enabling customer centers to establish realistic forecasts and performance goals schedule and deploy the right number of staff with the appropriate skills capture customer interactions in their entirety by recording all calls or recording based on business rules or on demand or randomly measure performance to identify execution issues and excellence analyze customer interactions to investigate opportunities for optimizing use of people processes and technologies take action by delivering targeted training or re engineering processes and or refine forecasts and performance goals based on the collected data.

One embodiment of the integrated process and system disclosed herein begins with planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Next comes forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Then recording and measuring performance are utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Next the process system analyzes and identifies opportunities and correlates them with customer center or organization s KPIs and scorecards. Then e learning and company specific best practices documented through captured customer interactions make it possible to address skill and knowledge gaps efficiently and effectively as well as quickly communicate policy or procedural changes across the center enabling the customer center to achieve success in whatever terms it chooses to define. Rather than arbitrarily sending e learning training segments and hoping agents use them customer centers can use advanced workforce management forecasting and scheduling to select the best time to administer training which is proven to be more effective than classroom or group learning as well as freeing the supervisors from working one on one with agents.

Quality monitoring scores including insights from analytics and or analytical analysis of structured unstructured or aggregated data can next be fed into a workforce management to produce staffing models that prevent companies from unknowingly scheduling one shift with all the top performers for example. As a result some embodiments of the workforce management component of the process system of the present disclosure can provide a higher level of consistent service across shifts.

As can be seen while each technology segment delivers value integration of the segments delivers greater impact than the sum of their individual parts. Utilizing them separately limits the customer center s potential to become a strategic business asset.

The integrated systems for workforce optimization disclosed herein potentially solve many deficiencies in today s maturing customer center industry. For instance at an operational level centers are focused on optimizing customer sales service representative CSR performance. In the process centers may be working under constraints such as cost control and infrastructures that provide only bare essentials. They may also face the challenge of matching demand with resources retaining effective agents prioritizing coaching training and delivering consistent customer experiences. Leveraging an integrated system and its components such as forecasting and scheduling voice screen capture recording evaluations and best practice training enables them to focus on reducing risk decreasing average handle time improving quality scores driving down average time to answer ensuring adherence and managing occupancy.

At a more advanced level customer centers are focused on optimizing customer center performance. They face the challenge of balancing productivity with quality increasing center driven revenue standardizing service across touch points and growing transaction complexities. Customer centers are examining such metrics as first call resolution shrinkage up selling and cross selling and customer satisfaction as driven through the customer center. As disclosed herein the forecasting and scheduling adherence business rules driven recording lesson management agent organizational scorecard functionality and drill through engine for example unite customer center experiences provide flexible scheduling and promote the initiation of a performance improvement culture.

The subject matter disclosed herein is related to the subject matter disclosed in several pending U.S. patent applications. One is entitled Systems and Methods for Managing Recorders from a Central Point of Administration filed on Feb. 22 2006 assigned Ser. No. 11 359 325 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 1180 application is centralized administration of voice video and data recorders and enabling role based access control of recorders which do not have role based security concepts.

Another is Systems and Methods for Scheduling Call Center Agents Using Quality Data and Correlation Based Discovery filed on Feb. 22 2006 assigned Ser. No. 11 359 909 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

Another is Systems and Methods for Scheduling Call Center Agents Using Quality Data and Correlation Based Discovery filed on Feb. 22 2006 assigned Ser. No. 11 359 731 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

Another is System and Method for Integrating Learning Systems and Scorecards Systems filed on Feb. 22 2006 assigned Ser. No. 11 359 359 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

Another is System and Method for Integrating Learning Systems and Workforce Management Systems filed on Feb. 22 2006 assigned Ser. No. 11 359 194 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 136 705 entitled Method and System for Presenting Events Associated with Recorded Data Exchanged between a Server and a User filed on Apr. 30 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 705 application includes capturing and graphically displaying events that occur during an interaction between a customer and an agent. A reviewer is presented with a summarized voice interaction session in the form of a call timeline including a list of event identifiers. The reviewer selects one of the event identifiers in the timeline and the interaction session starting with the selected event is presented to the user. The user could choose to start listening to the exchange at an event by selecting the event.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 137 480 entitled Method and System for Selectively Dedicating Resources for Recording Data Exchanged between Entities Attached to a Network filed on Apr. 30 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 480 application includes determining whether to use an active tap or a passive tap to record data passing through a particular node based upon an objective for recording as noted by predefined business rules.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 136 735 entitled Methods and Systems for Categorizing and Cataloguing Recorded Interactions filed on Apr. 30 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 735 application includes categorizing data upon storing the captured data. The categories are based upon predefined business rules for storing captured data.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 061 469 entitled Method Apparatus and System for Capturing Data Exchanged between a Server and a User filed on Jan. 21 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 469 application includes capture of exchange data by a capture module that operates independently from the server and the user.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 061 489 entitled Method Apparatus and System for Processing Data Captured during Exchanges between a Server and a User filed on Jan. 31 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 489 application includes selective recordation of captured data based upon whether the data satisfies predetermined business rules.

Another is U.S. application Ser. No. 10 061 491 entitled Method Apparatus and System for Replaying Data Selected from Among Data Captured During Exchanges Between a Server and a User filed on Jan. 21 2002 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. The subject matter of the 491 application includes replaying data captured during a session wherein search criteria are based upon business rules.

The following is a list of other U.S. utility applications which include related subject matter each of which is incorporated by reference U.S. utility application entitled Method and Apparatus for Long Range Planning having Ser. No. 09 899 895 filed on Oct. 3 2002 U.S. utility application entitled Interface System and Method of Building Rules and Constraints For a Resource Scheduling System having Ser. No. 09 680 131 filed on Oct. 2 2000 U.S. Utility Application entitled System and Method for Complex Schedule Generation having Ser. No. 09 825 589 filed on Apr. 3 2001 U.S. utility application entitled Method and Apparatus for Long Range Planning having Ser. No. 09 899 895 filed on Jul. 5 2001 U.S. utility application entitled Method and Apparatus for Multi Contact Scheduling having Ser. No. 11 037 604 filed on Jan. 18 2005 and U.S. Utility application entitled Method and Apparatus for Concurrent Error Identification in Resource Scheduling having Ser. No. 11 237 456 filed on Sep. 9 2005.

When an agent is ready to receive calls at his phone the agent first logs into the ACD . This login notifies the ACD that the agent is available to take calls. An agent s ACD state changes throughout the workday as the agent takes calls performs after call work takes breaks etc. An example list of ACD states includes available busy after call work and unavailable among others.

The ACD distributes incoming phone calls to available agents. A phone call comes into the customer center on an outside trunk . If an agent is not available the ACD puts the call into a queue which effectively places the caller on hold. When an agent is available the ACD connects the outside trunk line carrying the phone call to one of the agents. More specifically the ACD connects the outside trunk line to the trunk line of the selected agent.

A call recorder connected to one or more of the agent trunk lines provides call recording capabilities. In a typical customer center such as that shown in the recorder is a server with specialized hardware e.g. digital signal processing boards . The recorder receives instructions from a recording server . The recording server maintains an interaction database which stores the recorded content as well as descriptive information about the recording. The recording server provides an interface for searching the interaction database .

While on a call with a customer the agent interacts with one or more applications running on the workstation . Examples are applications that give the agent access to customer records product information ordering status and transaction history among others. The applications may access one or more enterprise databases not shown via the network .

The customer center also includes a work force manager WFM which is typically divided among several applications. The WFM comprises the suite of applications. Many of the WFM components have a user interface which runs on a supervisor workstation .

The WFM performs many functions. One such function among others is calculating staffing levels and agent schedules based on historical patterns of incoming calls. Another function of the WFM among others is collecting customer center contact statistics and providing this information both historical and real time to the customer center supervisor or manager. Yet another function of the WFM among others is supplying the supervisor with information on how well each agent complies with customer center policies. The portion of the WFM that performs this last function is the adherence subsystem.

In general terms the function of the adherence subsystem is to determine whether agent activities comply with adhere to customer center policies. An instance where an agent activity does not adhere to a policy is an exception. An adherence subsystem may support different levels of adherence where policies are defined and agent activities are captured with different amounts of detail.

For example the policy used in a low level form of adherence might be a schedule. For example an agent is expected to be working the phone from 10 AM to 11 AM and e mail from 11 AM to 12 PM. Information about calls or emails handled by an agent is not relevant to this first form of adherence. In contrast in a higher level form of adherence policy includes quality targets. For example an agent is expected to have a call duration of less than 5 minutes.

The business purpose of a customer center is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers. To achieve this purpose a customer center follows a business process having states in that one state affects subsequent states. An example of the states is described in relation to .

In a conventional customer center business process there is a relatively high degree of separation between states. In contrast in the integrated customer center business process described here multiple states are connected into a loop with each state of the process feeding input into another state down the line.

The first state may also include campaign planning. Profiles for campaigns are defined for example by inbound or outbound how many contacts are expected date and duration of the campaign and what sorts of agent skills are needed.

Information about the goals and campaign s produced by the first state is provided to the second state and sixth state . The sixth state receives the information about the goals and campaign s from the first state and track information indicating whether the goals and campaign s are achieved. The sixth state enables users to drill through information related to the goals and campaign s .

In the second state a workforce of agents is scheduled to staff the campaign s . In determining the number of agents scheduled for a campaign the goals metrics and campaign characteristics from the first state are considered. The schedule is also used as input of a workload forecast which predicts contact volume during each interval of the campaign based on historical data. Using this schedule the customer center manager deploys the appropriate number and mix of agents during the campaign times.

The sixth state receives the information about the number of agents scheduled for the campaign from the second state and tracks information indicating whether the number of agents scheduled for the campaign is achieved. The sixth state enables the users to drill through information related to the number of agents scheduled for the campaign. In this regard drill through means providing a link that accesses the desired information.

The output of the second state is the customer agent interactions that occur during a campaign. The third state measures or assesses the interactions in various ways. One typical assessment adherence measures how well an agent complied with customer center policies e.g. call duration . In the third state at least a portion of the interactions are recorded and then examined. This examination produces a variety of quality metrics that assess an agent s skills in various categories product knowledge selling listening etc. 

The sixth state receives the information about various measurements assessments recordings and examinations from the third state and tracks information indicating whether the various assessments indicate that the agent complied with the customer center policies. The sixth state enables the users to drill through information related to the customer center policies that were achieved or not based on the various assessments.

The various assessments are provided as input to the fourth state . In this state these inputs are analyzed in various ways. The analysis may rate interactions on a good to bad scale considering the customer point of view the business point of view or both. For example a contact that resulted in a sale would be an indicator of a good interaction while a contact that exceeded average duration would be an indicator of a bad interaction.

Once bad interactions are identified an attempt is made to determine a root cause. In some cases the root cause may lie with an agent e.g. weak product skills . In other cases the cause may be in the customer center infrastructure or operations e.g. customer database is slow . The cause might also be rooted in a business process of the enterprise that is sponsoring the campaign. For example the billing process used by the enterprise or the process by which the enterprise dispatches field service units could be the cause.

The sixth state receives the information about the analysis of the interaction from the fourth state and tracks information indicating whether the analysis of the interaction is bad or good . The sixth state enables the users to drill through information related to the analysis of the interaction that was bad or good .

The fifth state uses the analysis produced by the fourth state to adapt and change operations accordingly. Agent skills can be improved by training in the deficient areas. The information may be used to change an aspect of customer center operations or to make a recommendation to the sponsoring enterprise for it to change its processes or operations. The results of the analysis as well as the raw metrics used as input to the analysis are combined into data sets scorecards that allow the customer center operators to determine whether or not the business goals are met and whether the metrics show progress toward the goals or away from the goal trending . These data sets are provided as input to the first state which closes the feedback loop of the integrated customer center business process .

The fifth state can provide the scorecards to the agents and customer center operators. The fifth state can notify the agents that changes have been made to a particular customer center operations because the customer center did not meet business goals or are not progressing toward the goals. In general the sixth state obtains information from the five states and tracks information indicating whether the states accomplished their intended purposes. The sixth state provides the user with the root cause of those states that did not accomplish their intended purposes which are further described in the following FIGs.

As will be described combining agent quality metrics from the quality monitor e.g. synchronous such as voice asynchronous such as e mail or chat with WFM e.g. agent planning scheduling can provide insight that customer center supervisors can use to confirm the value provided by agents to the business as a whole.

The WFM performs many functions related to the agent workforce. For example WFM can schedule single multiple or virtual customer centers across multiple time zones accommodate a dedicated blended or task switching environment schedule meetings or training without impact on service levels allow agents to bid for shifts and provide input into their schedules automate compliance with government and union regulations create centralized forecasts and schedules with a single point of control over the entire network or decentralized schedules that allow for decision making at individual sites schedule based on skill priorities that align with the customer center s routing strategy and create and schedule teams as a unit to support training and accommodate employee preferences.

The functionality of the WFM is typically divided among several applications executables processes or services. A forecast and scheduling component calculates staffing levels and agent schedules based on historical interaction contact patterns. A tracking component provides a customer center supervisor or manager with information about agent activities and agent customer interactions both historical and real time. An adherence component supplies the supervisor with information on how well each agent complies with call center policies. For example once schedules are created the customer center should ensure that agents follow the schedules.

Most preferably the adherence component provides a real time view of every activity across each channel in the customer center including those in the front and back office so supervisors customer centers can see how their staff spends its time. In an enhancement alerts can be set to notify supervisors when agents are out of adherence and exception management can help ensure agents are correctly recognized for work they have performed.

The quality monitor includes a content recorder for recording agent customer interactions. The content recorder can be configured to capture all interactions or a selected set of interactions based on user defined business rules.

The content recorder can capture voice and data interactions from both traditional and IP telephony environments and can handle high volume recording for compliance and sales verification. The content recorder can also record all voice transactions across multiple sites or randomly capture a subset of transactions that may be of particular interest as well as record contacts on demand. Using the content recorder a user can record all contacts or establish advanced business rules to capture only those transactions of particular interest. User defined business rules can trigger the recordings initiate enterprise collaboration by notifying individuals or groups of the captured contacts and emerging trends and allow users to assign attributes or tags to the contacts for quick identification. All data related to a customer interaction including navigation of automated systems agent keystrokes and desktop activities can be stored automatically in folders for search and retrieval. Different users in an enterprise can share and review transactions as well as hear customer feedback first hand.

The quality manager stores the interactions in an interactions database which may include descriptive information as well as recorded content. Customer center personnel play back some of the interactions and use an evaluation component to score the agent in various categories product knowledge selling listening etc. 

Furthermore customer center supervisors and quality analysts can then tap into these recorded interactions to review evaluate and score agent performance. An analytics component can analyze interactions in various ways including the use of speech analytics. Examples of analysis include categorizing calls based on content analyzing a call against an expected call pattern and reporting exceptions to the pattern and providing a visualization layer for recorded interactions that displays other data attributes such as agent activities coincident with call events.

The learning component allows a customer center manager to develop training lessons for agents and assign lessons to agents. The learning component provides automated training processes by identifying scheduling and delivering online learning directly to agent desktops. The lesson content can include recorded interactions which can be used to create a library of best practices for training agents and other personnel. Using actual interactions a customer center can develop E learning content specific to the organization. In an enhancement these training lessons can include assessments to help track and measure agent performance skill acquisition and knowledge retention.

The learning component can also deliver targeted learning sessions over a network using e mail or a hyperlink to a Web site or directly to the agent desktop. Supervisors can select the appropriate training sessions from a library of courseware or create sessions themselves using a contact editing feature. Then supervisors can assign course material and monitor completion automatically.

The performance manager displays key performance indicators. KPIs which can be predefined on a scorecard. The scorecard which can be role appropriate provides a statistical measure of how well an agent or group of agents is performing against their goals . The KPI metrics are derived from quality evaluations and or WFM call routing data.

A centralized administration component consolidates agent administration across the various components into a single point of entry and provides a single logon to all components for agents and administrators. The administration component may also include a centralized reporting component even across multiple sites. A common user interface reduces training time on the various system components.

A drill through engine monitors but is not limited to the WFM quality manager learning component training and performance manager for example to determine whether each component of the integrated customer center system performs its business rules or goals. If any of the business rules are not met the drill through engine enables the users to drill through information related to the respective components.

The drill through engine can be deployed within a centralized administration component within a company premises distributed across multiple geographic locations and or embedded into a network as a service on a network infrastructure. The drill through engine can be accessed through links from any components of the integrated customer center system generally via a link on a user interface.

An integrated customer center system such as system allows customer center analysts to quickly access the right information. Such an integrated system allows valuable and previously undiscovered information to be uncovered. This new level of visibility into customer center operations should allow personnel to make better decisions faster.

In this disclosure the term interaction refers to a record of the content of agent activities related to a call. Note that agent activities are not limited to audio of the call itself. Other forms of media are included. Examples of other types of interactions are video recording of the agent application activity on the agent s workstation web pages delivered to the agent and or customer during collaborative sessions messages delivered through e mail instant messaging or other messaging technologies. Also the agent activities in an interaction are not limited to the duration of the call but can occur after the call a state called wrap up or research .

The tracking component of the WFM provides information about agent activities to the WFM adherence component . Agent activities which describe work activities performed by agents are collected from various sources. The call router reports agent call states Available After Call Work etc. A monitoring application on agent workstations tracks agent activity on the workstation e.g. switching between applications screen data keyboard input etc. . The drill through engine communicates with the tracking component to provide information indicating the root cause of the agent s exception to adherence.

The adherence component displays a view of agent activities typically one agent per line with activities arranged across a timeline. Exceptions to agent adherence e.g. non compliance with customer center policy are provided to the drill through engine which can display the exceptions in conjunction with the activities and the timeline. The adherence component obtains a list of recorded interactions available for agents during the displayed time period. This list of interactions is presented to the user in the same adherence view . The drill through engine can associate and provide the agent activities that correspond to the exception to the agent adherence. Operation of the drill through engine at the integration point between the WFM and the quality monitor is described in relation to .

From the adherence view a user can drill through to a recorded interaction by selecting the interaction from the list and then activating a playback tool. The adherence component retrieves the selected interaction from the interactions database and the interaction is then played back using an appropriate application e.g. media player desktop activity player web content player . A user can also select an agent activity that is presently occurring and either record on demand or live monitor the selected activity.

Integration between the WFM and the quality monitor is further described in the U.S. patent application System and Method for Integrated Display of Recorded Interactions and Call Agent Data assigned Ser. No. 11 359 357 filed on Feb. 22 2006 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

In the integrated system the WFM generates call recording parameters based on information contained in the forecast e.g. call volume and call type and or the schedule . The recording parameters are provided to the content recorder in the quality monitor . This integration allows the content recorder to adapt recording behavior during a campaign.

As an example of how this feature is useful to a customer center consider a marketing campaign that starts on a Monday and lasts all week. It is expected that call quality for agents on this campaign can be relatively low on Monday since the material is new to the agents. By the end of the week the agents are more familiar with the material so agent quality scores are expected to increase. If the agent quality scores do not increase after Monday the drill through engine enables a user of the quality monitor to drill down through various levels of information associated with the campaign via graphical user interfaces to obtain audio recordings for example for analysis so that the root cause of the low agent quality scores can be determined.

The recording parameters provided to the content recorder in the integrated system allow a customer center manager to increase the percentage of interactions recorded at the start of the campaign and to reduce the percentage as the campaign progresses. The recording parameters can be further associated with one agent or a set of agents so that inexperienced agents e.g. agents with low scores have a higher percentage of recorded interactions as compared to more experienced agents. The drill through engine can also receive the recording parameters and monitor whether the quality monitor achieved the recording parameters . If not the drill through engine can provide the root cause of the non compliance to the customer center manager. Operation of the drill through engine that facilitates integration between the WFM and the quality monitor is described in relation to .

Other examples of using WFM data to determine recording behavior include trigger or select recording based on relative elapsed time from the beginning of the shift trigger or select recording before or after specific activities e.g. after lunch or before break activity and trigger or select recording based on adherence data e.g. agent is on call but not adhering to schedule .

An agent receives training through a lesson presentation function . The presentation may take the form of viewing a video and or listening to audio at the agent workstation . The lesson presentation function maintains a lesson log which tracks the presentation of lessons to agents. In one implementation the lesson log includes an agent identifier a lesson identifier the time when the lesson presentation began and an indication of whether the lesson has been completed.

In yet another point of integration between WFM and the learning component the lesson log is provided to the adherence component in the WFM . The adherence component uses information in the lesson log to determine whether an agent has met the lesson completion date. If not the adherence component notes the incomplete lesson as an exception to adherence. The drill through engine receives the exception information and tracks the information indicating the cause for the exception. The operation of the drill through engine that facilitates integration between the WFM and the learning component is described in relation to .

Scheduling assigned lessons and tracking adherence to these assignments is further described in U.S. patent application Tracking of Lesson Adherence in a Call Center Environment filed on Feb. 22 2006 and having Ser. No. 11 359 194 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

The performance manager does analysis on the KPIs and or the source measurements to produce scorecards . The analysis may include calculating statistics such as average variation etc. aggregating by time period or groups of agents and determining trends. The scorecards are then presented in visual form to a user. Examples of scorecards are a daily scorecard for an agent or a team and a scorecard of all agents for the past month.

In the integrated system the KPIs are also provided to the learning component . As described earlier the learning component maintains lessons which can be assigned to an agent for review. In the integrated system each lesson is associated with one or more KPIs . The lesson assignment component examines one or more of the KPIs for a particular agent and makes an assignment for a lesson associated with that KPI based on criteria associated with a KPI or a competency. In one implementation the criteria is a comparison of one or more KPIs for an agent to threshold values and the lesson assignment component assigns a lesson if the KPI is lower than the threshold. This point of integration therefore allows automatic lesson assignment based on KPI .

Automatic lesson assignment is further described in U.S. patent application System and Method for Integrating Learning Systems and Scorecards Systems filed on Feb. 22 2006 having Ser. No. 11 359 359 and entirely incorporated by reference herein. Alternatively or additionally the drill through engine can monitor and track information indicating whether the KPIs of the agents are below the threshold values and if so the drill through engine can provide the supervisor or agent with information corresponding to the root cause of the KPIs. The drill through engine can associate the low KPIs with the lesson and provide a schedule of the agent indicating that the lesson has been assigned to the agent due to the agent s low KPI .

The lesson may also include a test that is given to the agent to determine competency in the area associated with the lesson . In yet another point of integration between WFM and the learning component the agent test score for an agent is provided to the performance manager . The performance manager updates the KPIs to reflect the agent competency described by the test score . The drill through engine can associate the test score with the low KPIs and provide the test score to the supervisor or agent. The operation of the drill through engine that facilitates integration between the performance manager and the learning component is described in relation to .

As described earlier the performance manager maintains KPIs that measure agent and or group performance. In the integrated system shown in the scheduler considers agent KPIs when scheduling so that some good agents are also added to the shift. The KPI may reflect for example an evaluation of the agent s performance on a set of customer interactions. In one embodiment the scoring is done by a person while playing back the recorded interaction. In another embodiment the scoring is at least partly automated through the use of speech analytics.

The agent KPIs are provided to the scheduler in the WFM . Also provided to the scheduler are quality goals for a particular schedule interval. Examples of quality goals are 50 of agents have a score at of least 80 and average score is at least 80. 

The scheduler considers the quality goals and the KPIs along with other inputs to determine a schedule which includes agent assignments to work activities at specific times. The scheduler also considers for example a workload forecast agent skill sets and agent shift preferences . The scheduler then chooses a mix of agents to work a shift so that the agent scores combine to meet the quality goals . Integration of KPIs and the scheduler is further described in U.S. patent application Systems and Methods for Scheduling Call Center Agents Using quality Data and Correlation Based Discovery filed on Feb. 22 2006 having Ser. No. 11 359 731 and entirely incorporated by reference herein.

The drill through engine monitors the schedule to determine whether the schedule is executed. If variance occurs to the schedule such as an agent calls in sick the drill through engine provides information to a supervisor indicating that the agent has called in sick and how the agents have been rescheduled to accommodate this situation.

Typically the manager wants more detailed information about the flagged problem area. A conventional customer center solution requires the manager to open up a particular application such as Adherence or Quality Monitoring to obtain detailed information about the problem area. Once in the application the manager must then navigate to the root cause of the problem e.g. the activity that was out of adherence .

In contrast the integrated system allows a user to quickly view details associated with the flagged problem area in the appropriate application context. The drill through engine facilitates the integration of the WFM performance manager and quality monitor by monitoring the flagged problem area and providing root cause information to the users. Several examples of this use of application context are shown in . When interacting with the performance manager selecting an adherence related KPI in a scorecard brings the user to a view of adherence information. Furthermore the particular agent activities that resulted in the out of adherence flag are highlighted or otherwise brought to the user s attention in the view . Alternatively or additionally the out of adherence flag is sent to the drill through engine which provides a link to obtain information indicating the particular agent activities. As another example selecting a quality score related KPI brings the user to the quality monitor and more specifically to the particular evaluation form which contains the flagged quality score . The user can click on a link to obtain the flagged quality score along with the particular evaluation form via the drill through engine . The operation of the drill through engine that facilitates integration among the WFM performance manager and quality monitor is described in relation to .

As yet another example selecting a call statistic related KPI such as call duration or hold time brings the user to the quality monitor . The quality monitor presents a list of recorded interactions from the interactions database which contributed to or are in someway related to the flagged call statistic score . The user can click on a link to obtain the flagged call statistic score along with the list of recorded interactions via the drill through engine . The user can then play back one of the recorded interactions. The integrated system thus greatly simplifies root cause analysis for customer center personnel.

Call recording and monitoring are vital to customer center operations and the business. Every day insight and feedback on the organization are gained from customer interactions. Valuable business intelligence can be extracted from these calls to help call center executives improve operational efficiency customer satisfaction and profitability. Yet management can only listen to a small segment of recorded calls. Managers must search manually through an enormous number of calls just to find the calls they need to analyze. The process is not only inefficient and expensive but valuable information is continually ignored leaving only a small sample of data needed to make informed business decisions.

Referring now to with the analytics function of the present disclosure first introduced in customer centers can now convert all call recordings into actionable business intelligence. Management can discern important competitive and business insight and easily identify trends from customer interactions by analyzing speech telephony agent and recording data together. In an enhancement the analytics function also streamlines the quality monitoring process by automatically classifying and scoring calls based on selection criteria that may include any or part of the data captured by the integrated systems disclosed herein including speech analytics.

The analytics function enables businesses to 1 have a more accurate view of the customer experience which allows executives across the organization to uncover critical customer attitudes needs and requirements 2 automatically score and classify calls for easy retrieval and examination which enables call centers to digitally score calls to conduct automated quality and customer satisfaction surveys and 3 discover trends related to customer behavior e.g. churn product adoption that impact the business.

The analytics function preferably uses speech recognition to convert the recorded calls into a searchable repository that allows for the query of words and or phrases contained within the recorded calls. This repository may manifest itself as a text transcript or searchable phonetic model of the recorded calls. The analytics function may apply additional unstructured data analysis techniques to refine and extract the context and further meaning from the conversations. Examples of various techniques that may be applied to refine the context of the mined speech or the speech to text conversion include statistical modeling of grammar using a statistical model of grammar module and natural language processing using a natural speech patterns module. Further the analytics function identifies the critical words and phrases within the context of the conversation. All this enables the embodiments disclosed herein to capture the intent of the call rather than merely the words of the call.

In an alternative embodiment the analytics function converts the audio of the conversation into a phonetic representation of the call and uses a word spotting method or a query analysis which flags or tags calls by a specific word phrase proximity inflection tempo or emotion. Queries may be performed on an ad hoc basis or stored for pattern analysis.

With the recorded calls converted to searchable content via a transcribe call represented in the analytics function allows users to look back in time to discover what customers have said. In some embodiments users do not need to know in advance what they are looking for. For example if there was a spike in call volume last week the analytics function can enable the customer center to understand the reason for the increased calls. Also the user can incorporate metadata obtained from telephony or CRM systems to gain further insight into the reasons for the call spike.

In an enhancement the analytics function also uses a pattern recognition module to pull meaning out of the results generated by speech recognition. The pattern recognition module discerns the call s pattern and automatically places the call into one or several categories once the call is ingested into the speech engine based on context the pattern recognition module is able to extract from the speech mining function. The patterns are used not only to classify calls but also to determine if a particular activity has occurred during the call or to automatically score individual evaluation or survey questions based on this data. For instance a call score might be correlated to an existing evaluation or customer survey question during the call e.g. did the agent offer a cross sell did the agent remember to read the corporate policy . By automating the labor intensive quality monitoring processes customer centers can realize not just a fast return on investment but also deploy resources where they are strategic to the call center.

The analytics function can link the call content to the metadata from for example a quality monitoring component see to relate characteristics such as agent ID time date speaker s name workgroup ID and call routing. The analytics function can link to custom data sources that may contain other information related to the agent customer interaction for example a CRM system.

The analytics function also includes a search function . An append feature in the search function allows the user to modify the initial search by tacking on additional criteria and logic. A refine feature function allows the user to add to the search criteria which are then used on the results of the last search. A remove feature allows the user to modify the initial search by tacking on additional criteria and logic. An undo feature allows any of the modifications just described to be reversed. In one enhancement results from the initial search string using the search function can be refined to help focus on particular calls of interest. In another enhancement users can combine the search functionality described above with data from the CTI ACD and other sources via a CTI ACD integration module.

Different individuals use different words or phrases to depict a similar meaning. Recognizing this fact the analytics function enables users to expand single words into complete concepts which convey intent and meaning rather than being tied to one narrow possibility. An expansion option allows users to include plural synonym homonym and containing words in a single clean screen. For example instead of searching for the single word bill the user can select to search for bill bills account charges invoice statement billing billed bell which will most likely return better results because it takes into account the differences of expression.

In one enhancement the expansion option allows for the identification of temporal relationships between words phrases and other collected events in order to better identify the context of the conversation. For example a search that includes the word supervisor in a temporal relationship with words like transfer me to or in relationship to a call transfer event can provide much more context than a search for supervisor . The expansion option allows users to capture more instances of the concept that they are exploring and furthermore establish the intent of the calls. This improves upon keyword spotting technologies which are not good enough to perform ad hoc searching for concepts which is the ultimate goal in content discovery.

The analytics function further enables the user a variety of ways to derive insight from the search results. The Call Replay component allows the user to listen to an audio file from the search results in part or in its entirety. Playing a portion of the audio allows the user more efficiently to go through the search results without having to waste time listening to the whole conversation. The Text Display component shows a continuous text for the entire recognized content when playing back part or all of a call. This allows users to quickly capture terms and expressions exchanged in the call that might be of importance. The Save Searches component allows a user to save and easily retrieve searches for further refinement and analysis. The Export component allows search results to be exported to a wide variety of formats such as Microsoft Excel or Adobe PDF format. The Search Statistics component displays information on the current search e.g. calls counted search time . In one enhancement the analytics function further includes a call visualization component which includes an interface for displaying the text of a set of calls along with other data captured by the integrated system of the present disclosure along with integrated sources. A call visualization component is more fully described in the 705 application and incorporated by reference above.

Preferably the analytics function automatically classifies and scores calls via classify calls module and a score calls module. This feature can greatly reduce the time and effort that customer centers spend on the quality monitoring process by structuring unstructured voice recordings and categorizing them. The classify calls module preferably classifies calls based on the content. A call may be classified into one or more buckets. The analytics function relies on the concept that all conversational threads have at their core one or more patterns of speech.

Patterns are complex descriptions of different ways that people communicate information not just simple words for matching. These patterns of speech do not have to contain exact word matches for particular search terms but they only look like a specific pattern. Each pattern is defined and assigned a weight by the pattern developer and each area of intent is assigned a threshold. If a group of patterns match and their added weights exceed the threshold then that conversation is said to look like and contain that intent.

The weights and threshold are user definable and therefore easily tweaked to produce better and more accurate results. A typical intent bucket will contain anywhere from five to 100 patterns to match. Patterns can be shared across domains and industries and pattern bases can evolve forward to deliver ever more accurate and finely tuned pattern matching.

The analytics function uses patterns not only to classify calls via the classify calls module but also to evaluate if a particular activity occurred during a call via the score calls module. The user begins by designating the objective criteria on which the calls are to be scored into the application. A set of patterns is then described for the criteria. A call is then scored based on the extent to which the criteria patterns were fully met partially met or not met at all. Each weighted threshold for each score level can be customizable.

The analytics function allows the user to create a graphical representation of trends found in the calls via a graphical representation module. This enables a user to view statistics about complex trends over a large time period.

The trend view displays a suite of ad hoc reports that can be easily configured by the parameters in Table 1.

By visualizing the information such as by the parameters above the user can gain a more detailed view on the particularities of the search phrases.

Another trending capability is the display of for example the top words mentioned in the recorded calls where the number of top words is customizable . The analytics function proactively shows the words that are unusually more frequent than before or compared to the standard language. This acts as an early warning system to enable organizations to understand how the conversations have changed from one period to the next.

Preferably the analytics function organizes and delivers results customized to the end user s requirements via a reports module. In an enhancement reports module allows for scheduling options that enable users the ability to vary frequency of report delivery so analysts can zoom in on critical data metrics hourly daily monthly etc. Users can customize and automate reporting. Once a query is created the user can save the query to run automatically. Users can create and view reports in different formats while using the web based viewer. For example reports can be output as Excel or PDF files and then emailed. The reports are interactive in that calls can be played back from the results of the report. The reports module which is preferably based on industry standard databases such as SQL can be used to customize reports to extract format and report from the underlying data. In another enhancement the reports module is a dashboard reporting system which can for example link the actual calls detected for each event or report.

The analytics function can provide business rules goals and specifications of the integrated system to a drill through module . The drill through module analyzes the received business rules goals and specifications of the integrated system. The analysis enables the drill through module to monitor the integrated system and tracks information indicating areas that need attention.

For example in an enhancement the drill through module can monitor the schedule of agents and tracks information indicating whether there are any variances from the schedule such as agents being out sick for a certain period of time. The drill through module can provide information indicating that the schedule of the agents has changed information indicating the root cause for the change and which agents fill in for the agent s shift.

In another example the drill through module monitors the performance of the agent and tracks information indicating that the agent is not reaching goals via for example quality monitoring. The drill through module can provide information indicating the root cause for the bad performance. The drill through module can further provide information indicating that training lessons have been taken to improve the bad performance.

In yet another example a scheduler may review the workflow schedule for a group of agents and realize that call volumes exceed what was anticipated for that day and queue time is in excess of what is desired. The scheduler may choose to send an alert to a group of agents to change procedures to better address the situation or to send a request to volunteer to work overtime to fill the need. Another use would be to send messages for shift bidding and have a bi directional means for agents to give their approval to work and overtime requests.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the system and or method is implemented in software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable microprocessor P situated in a computing device. However the systems and methods can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Such instruction execution systems include any computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions from the instruction execution system. In the context of this disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to a system or propagation medium that is based on electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor technology.

Specific examples of a computer readable medium using electronic technology would include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory . A specific example using magnetic technology includes but is not limited to a portable computer diskette. Specific examples using optical technology include but are not limited to optical fiber and compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium on which the program is printed. Using such a medium the program can be electronically captured using for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner and then stored in a computer memory. In addition the scope of certain embodiments of the present disclosure includes embodying the functionality of the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

In block the performance indicators are used to plan a second campaign or another iteration of the first campaign. In block the above steps are monitored to determine whether the steps were achieved according to the business rules. In block a user is provided with a graphical user interface that includes a drill through option which provides information indicating the root cause of any one of the above steps that was not achieved according to the business rules. In block the information is provided indicating the root cause of any one of the unachieved steps.

In block responsive to determining that the drill through option is to be included the drill through engine includes the drill through option in the graphical user interface. In block the agent and supervisor select the drill through option which provides information indicating the exceptions to the agent s adherence. In particular the drill through engine can provide the agent activities by obtaining a list of agent activities stored in an interaction database selecting from the list the agent activity that produced the exception to the agent adherence and retrieving the agent activity that produced the exception from the interaction database.

In block the drill through engine determines whether to include a drill through option which provides a link to obtain information indicating the root cause of the modification of the schedule. In block responsive to determining that the drill through option is to be included the drill through engine includes the drill through option in the graphical user interface and in block the user selects the drill through option which obtains information indicating the root cause of the modification of the schedule. The drill through engine can further provide a link to obtain information indicating whether the agent completed or not completed the training activity.

The agents can be assigned to a lesson because their KPIs fell below the predetermined threshold. In block the drill through engine monitors whether a lesson was assigned to the agent and in block the drill through engine associates the KPIs that fell below the predetermined threshold with the lesson assigned to the agent. In block the agent can be provided with a test to determine competency in the area associated with the lesson. In block a graphical user interface is provided that includes the KPIs of the agents.

In block the drill through engine determines whether to include a drill through option which provides a link to obtain information indicating the root cause of the KPIs of the agents. In block responsive to determining that the drill through option is to be included the drill through engine includes the drill through option in the graphical user interface and in block the user selects the drill through option which provides information indicating the root cause of the modification of the schedule. The drill through engine can further provide a link to obtain information indicating the root cause of the KPIs of the agents the lesson included to the agent s schedule and the test score of the agent.

The names of the KPI section display links to dialog boxes which show the details of the settings for each KPI. The actual section shows the actual value for the KPI based on each KPI s formula. The goal section shows the desired value for the KPI. The score section shows the status of each currently displayed KPI. The score can be calculated based on the gap between the actual value and the goal value. The score section further contains an arrow to indicate the performance trend which includes an upward arrow indicating a good trend and a downward arrow indicating a bad trend.

The peer section displays the benchmark score based on the benchmark group and the calculation method in use. The percentage met section shows the selected organization the percentage of the employees that met or exceeded the goal. The value of percentage met can also be a link which upon clicking on the link opens a popup box that displays the names of all employees that did not meet the goals. The percentage met value can be calculated for all employees with a selected organization. The Note section displays open envelop icons for any notes that have been made for each KPI. The assessment section displays the name of assessments that have been made for each KPI. Managers can click on the phrase No Rating to create an assessment.

The drill through section provides a user the capability to access another page or application for more information about each KPI. For example a drill to adherence allows a manager to analyze the reasons for a specific score on a KPI. Clicking on the drill through icon allows the user to go to the adherence page for further analysis of the root cause. In such a case the adherence screen for the current organization s employees would be displayed for the active day of the period selected in the scorecard. That is if a specific employee is selected on the employee s dropdown menu the adherence screen is displayed for the employee for the first active day of the period selected in the employee scorecard. If all is selected on the employee s dropdown menu the adherence screen is displayed for all of the selected organization s employees for the active day of the period selected in the employee s scorecard.

The pulse screen allows schedulers to enter historical data into the application. A date range selector specifies the date interval to be retrieved in the data panel. The specified date can be preselected upon clicking on the drill through icon of the scorecard screen such as that shown on . The pulse screen further includes a summary table that displays the summary of all the days in the date range. Each data value is an aggregation of the date. The last row in the table shows the summary of the entire period. The first column of the summary table shows either a list of queues or text aggregated. The second column level shows actual value forecasted and the third column shows the required value. The graph section displays the time period on the x axis and the statistic value on the y axis. The name of the statistic and the calculation type are specified in the title of the graph such as service level contact value and average handling time. Each queue can have approximately three lines that can indicate the actual forecasting and required calculated values.

The bottom panel contains several controls. A reforecast control saves the current forecast including the trend as a new forecast. A configured trend control modifies the parameters that define the trend calculation. The pulse can further display information on the following statistics average speed to answer abandons backlog staffing occupancy and full time equivalents. The average handle time is actual data that can be imported from the ACD. The pulse screen can further list contacts on a particular queue for the intervals and select by criteria such as achieved average handle time goal and pre filtered contacts to show specific outliers.

It should be noted that any process descriptions or blocks in flowcharts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. As would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art of the software development alternate embodiments are also included within the scope of the disclosure. In these alternate embodiments functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved.

This description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed however were chosen to illustrate the principles of the disclosure and its practical application. The disclosure is thus intended to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to use the disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of this disclosure as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

