---

title: Tiered achievement system
abstract: A game console has the capability to execute programming to unlock an achievement. After the achievements are unlocked, a data store accessible by the game console over a network stores the information in the profile of the user. The achievements associated with the user profiles can be retrieved from the store along with an indicator, that is indicative of a tier level associated with the achievement where the tier indicates a certain performance level associated with unlocking a particular achievement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08469805&OS=08469805&RS=08469805
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08469805
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060120
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings hereto Copyright 2006 Microsoft Corporation All Rights Reserved.

In online gaming game hosting services and game developers have created a number of ways to track and personalize the online gaming experience. A drawback of existing systems is that many of the features have grown up independent of each other. Games send blobs of data about gamers back and forth to a central service but the service has no way to understand and aggregate the data outside of the game context. Games can host their own Websites but the data displayed there is not universally accessible to other games.

In a sense then the service and games offer two parallel communities that offer great but separated resources for gamers. First in the game community while playing a game the gamer can see the community of others who play the specific game the leaderboards for that game and his personal achievements in that game. A game can tell a gamer from the Service data if a Friend is online but it can t tell the gamer what exactly that Friend is doing on the Service or when he will be available.

Second in the service community the service knows a gamer player s history all of the games he s played the amount of time he spends online the size of his Friends list and all of the games that Friends have played or are playing and feedback the gamer has given and received.

Systems have tried to leverage these on line communities to match various players to allow them to play multi player games. Nevertheless in general such systems which typically emphasize skill or experience in a single game or small family of games there is a desire to provide mechanisms to find similarly skilled players or to determine the skill level

The invention contemplates systems methods and computer readable media for displaying achievement tiers for players in a gaming environment. The system comprises a data store that stores a plurality of user profiles which comprise information gathered from users playing one or more video games on a game console. Various achievements attained by the players are associated with the user profile and includes achievement graphic or stamps for unlocking various achievements in particular games.

A game console has the capability to execute programming to unlock an achievement. After the achievements are unlocked a data store accessible by the game console over a network stores the information in the profile of the user. The achievements associated with the user profiles can be retrieved from the store along with an indicator that is indicative of a tier level associated with the achievement where the tier indicates a certain performance level associated with unlocking a particular achievement.

The game console is capable of displaying the achievements and associated indicators of a tier level retrieved from said data store. The achievements and indicators of tier level can also be retrieved from the data store over a network using a browser operating on a personal computer or other computing device.

The tier levels can be displayed in a variety of ways. For example a color of the achievement stamp can itself reflect the achievement tier level. Alternatively a number or other indicator can be embedded into the achievement stamp to provide a visual cue about the relative tier level achieved by a user or a progress bar can be used in conjunction with the achievement stamp to provide an indication of the tier level.

A graphics processing unit GPU and a video encoder video codec coder decoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution graphics processing. Data is carried from the graphics processing unit to the video encoder video codec via a bus. The video processing pipeline outputs data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. A memory controller is connected to the GPU to facilitate processor access to various types of memory such as but not limited to a RAM Random Access Memory .

The multimedia console includes an I O controller a system management controller an audio processing unit a network interface controller a first USB host controller a second USB controller and a front panel I O subassembly that are preferably implemented on a module . The USB controllers and serve as hosts for peripheral controllers a wireless adapter and an external memory device e.g. flash memory external CD DVD ROM drive removable media etc. . The network interface and or wireless adapter provide access to a network e.g. the Internet home network etc. and may be any of a wide variety of various wired or wireless adapter components including an Ethernet card a modem a Bluetooth module a cable modem and the like.

System memory is provided to store application data that is loaded during the boot process. A media drive is provided and may comprise a DVD CD drive hard drive or other removable media drive etc. The media drive may be internal or external to the multimedia console . Application data may be accessed via the media drive for execution playback etc. by the multimedia console . The media drive is connected to the I O controller via a bus such as a Serial ATA bus or other high speed connection e.g. IEEE 1394 .

The system management controller provides a variety of service functions related to assuring availability of the multimedia console . The audio processing unit and an audio codec form a corresponding audio processing pipeline with high fidelity and stereo processing. Audio data is carried between the audio processing unit and the audio codec via a communication link. The audio processing pipeline outputs data to the A V port for reproduction by an external audio player or device having audio capabilities.

The front panel I O subassembly supports the functionality of the power button and the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of the multimedia console . A system power supply module provides power to the components of the multimedia console . A fan cools the circuitry within the multimedia console .

The CPU GPU memory controller and various other components within the multimedia console are interconnected via one or more buses including serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus PCI Express bus etc.

When the multimedia console is powered ON application data may be loaded from the system memory into memory and or caches and executed on the CPU . The application may present a graphical user interface that provides a consistent user experience when navigating to different media types available on the multimedia console . In operation applications and or other media contained within the media drive may be launched or played from the media drive to provide additional functionalities to the multimedia console .

The multimedia console may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a television or other display. In this standalone mode the multimedia console allows one or more users to interact with the system watch movies or listen to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through the network interface or the wireless adapter the multimedia console may further be operated as a participant in a larger network community.

When the multimedia console is powered ON a set amount of hardware resources are reserved for system use by the multimedia console operating system. These resources may include a reservation of memory e.g. 16 MB CPU and GPU cycles e.g. 5 networking bandwidth e.g. 8 kbs etc. Because these resources are reserved at system boot time the reserved resources do not exist from the application s view.

In particular the memory reservation preferably is large enough to contain the launch kernel concurrent system applications and drivers. The CPU reservation is preferably constant such that if the reserved CPU usage is not used by the system applications an idle thread will consume any unused cycles.

With regard to the GPU reservation lightweight messages generated by the system applications e.g. popups are displayed by using a GPU interrupt to schedule code to render popup into an overlay. The amount of memory required for an overlay depends on the overlay area size and the overlay preferably scales with screen resolution. Where a full user interface is used by the concurrent system application it is preferable to use a resolution independent of application resolution. A scaler may be used to set this resolution such that the need to change frequency and cause a TV resynch is eliminated.

After the multimedia console boots and system resources are reserved concurrent system applications execute to provide system functionalities. The system functionalities are encapsulated in a set of system applications that execute within the reserved system resources described above. The operating system kernel identifies threads that are system application threads versus gaming application threads. The system applications are preferably scheduled to run on the CPU at predetermined times and intervals in order to provide a consistent system resource view to the application. The scheduling is to minimize cache disruption for the gaming application running on the console.

When a concurrent system application requires audio audio processing is scheduled asynchronously to the gaming application due to time sensitivity. A multimedia console application manager described below controls the gaming application audio level e.g. mute attenuate when system applications are active.

Input devices e.g. controllers and are shared by gaming applications and system applications. The input devices are not reserved resources but are to be switched between system applications and the gaming application such that each will have a focus of the device. The application manager preferably controls the switching of input stream without knowledge the gaming application s knowledge and a driver maintains state information regarding focus switches.

In the system described herein a Gamer Profile serves as a building block for services and applications that aim to create a social community of gamers and to grow relationships among players. Accordingly the Gamer Profile is the entirety of information e.g. metadata related to a specific user i.e. the gamer s digital identity . The Gamer Profile is developed from a set of services that collect and expose this information in a meaningful way to the community. The Gamer Profile also provides for personalization such that users can customize and enhance their gaming experience. As will be discussed in greater detail below the Gamer Profile consists of various components including but not limited to a Gamercard game achievements and gamer preferences.

Referring to there is illustrated an overview of an exemplary architecture that may be used to implement the Gamer Profile. The console interacts with a remote service that provides services such as voice chat a friends list matchmaking content download roaming feedback tournaments voice messaging and updates to gamers. The service also maintains the Gamer Profiles in a profile database and configuration data used by the services and games . The service collects Gamer Profiles aggregates processes information supplied by other services and fulfills real time client requests for retrieving Gamer Profile related services. The Gamer Profiles in the database are also used by the games to enable among other things personalization and customization etc.

Using the console the user may interact with a guide . The guide provides an interface where the user may navigate to and enter various online areas and options provided by the service . The configuration data stored by the service may be used to determine features and options provided by the guide . When the game is running a defined set of APIs are used to call and interact with the services . When requesting Gamer Profile information via the APIs the game may pass a unique identifier of a user. The service may return a Gamercard discussed below game stats game achievements affiliations game settings. etc. Additional details of the various aspects of the exemplary architecture are provided below.

Referring to the Gamer Profile is created when a user creates a profile selected from the guide and chooses his her unique Gamertag a user s unique name tile picture avatar associated with the user other options during an account sign up phase. From there a base Gamer Profile is created. The Gamer Profile may then be populated from several sources. For example the Gamer Profile may include self described data from the Gamer Profile owner. Other gamers can provide feedback regarding the Gamer Profile owner. The service may track the gamer s online and offline activity. In addition the games may report the gamer s statistics and game achievements.

The owner of Gamer Profile can edit his her Gamer Profile directly and control who can view each section of the Gamer Profile. The Gamer Profile may be edited via general fields e.g. tile country language gender greeting etc. and or system settings e.g. voice output controller vibration character name game format game mode etc. . Privacy Opt out Settings can be tuned for the Gamer Profile to e.g. restrict presence information only to friends allow game achievements to be visible to all etc.

The Gamer Profile may include feedback provided by other players . Feedback helps others learn about a particular gamer. For example if the gamer uses foul language or aggressive play in game sessions other gamers may submit feedback to the service . The feedback mechanism improves the user experience by building reputations. Players are therefore anonymous but not unknown because of the accumulated feedback.

As noted above the Gamer Profile may be used for customization and preference setting on a global level as well as a per game level. Gamer preferences aid games in choosing defaults for common settings such as game profile name controller inversion and controller vibration etc. For example if a gamer likes using an inverted controller this preference will be used for new titles as they are played. Games have access to Gamer Profiles via the database and services . In addition game usage data can be mined to tune the game to the user s particular preferences.

Additionally a sign in is provided as part of a ubiquitous identity that extends across multiple contexts thus enabling a consistent player identity offline and online. Referring to there are illustrated the contexts over which the present invention operates offline online out of game cross game and in game which represents a convention console environment. The unified sign in combined with a mechanism for tracking offline player activity advantageously eliminates the problems in conventional consoles where players must juggle between profiles and accounts sharing them with other players and are unable to accumulated game achievements while playing offline.

In addition a player may create the in game profile such that default options and information e.g. name controller settings etc. are automatically set. The in game profiles may be automatically associated with offline accounts so each time a player plays a game the profile is selected based on the offline account. This minimizes the configuring and tweaking necessary for a player to get started in a new game or to continue in an old game after signing in.

A player may sign in under a single account that associates online activity that is out of game cross game and or online activity that is in game and or activity that is offline and in game with that account and or offline out of game use. While online the service games and console track activity of gamers and provide usage statistics in the Gamer Profile . While offline the game console and games track the gamer s activity via a mechanism for instrumenting games to collect detailed information about a specific player s in game statistics and accomplishments.

The offline mechanism of the present invention provides several functionalities. The first is caching and uploading achievements when an offline account is enabled for an online account with the service . This allows players who have been using their offline accounts to upload achievements collected offline to their Gamer Profile . This way players can accumulate achievements offline that are credited towards online activities e.g. tournaments etc. that require high levels of achievements. The second functionality is caching and uploading achievements after playing offline. Players can play games on the console anywhere any time and the statistics and achievements are updated to the service to reflect the play. This functionality also operates for new games that have yet to be played online. The Gamer Profile is updated during the next connection to the service to reflect the offline play.

A third functionality of the offline mechanism is caching and uploading achievements after a connectivity failure e.g. an offline synchronization . At first players may be hesitant to use a wireless router for online play because of dropped connections. Because the present invention caches the statistics during transient connectivity problems achievements are updated online even if there are network problems. Additional functionalities may include viewing offline achievements when signed in online or while offline etc.

The process for creating and using a single sign in and offline accounts will now be described. Referring to the first time a player plays on the console she may select to create a new offline or online profile from user interface . If the user selects an offline profile the new user may create an account using a GamerTag whereby default settings are applied. After the offline account is created in game profiles game saves and game achievements are organized and associated with the account. She may also choose default game settings such as vibration OFF and inverter controls ON at this time.

When players sign up for an online account with the service using the interface it may be possible that the GamerTag they selected for their offline account is already taken. Therefore they must change their GamerTag for the new online account. If they accept the change the offline account GamerTag renamed to the new GamerTag. Any accumulated offline achievements will be credited to the new online account so experienced players do not have to start over to show others online that they are worthy players.

After an account is created e.g. OKO the user may select the account as the default . The console may automatically sign in the user when the game boots and provide a pop up message such as Welcome back OKO Press a button to sign in somebody else require the user to select the default account as shown in or provide a list of profiles from which to select e.g. as shown in . After the user signs in the user may select information related to the profile gaming play or other options. For example in the context of a racing game statistics such as total points mileage hours driven license unlocks may be shown after the profile is selected.

The offline account may be stored on the memory unit so may be transported from one console to another. This is advantageous for example if the player would like to play in a local tournament where she can bring her memory unit with her offline account and in game profile on it.

As noted above the Gamer Profile conveys among other things game achievements. As shown in players will be rewarded with game achievements based mastering certain in game facets of the games they play. Each game achievement may be conveyed in the Gamer Profile as a particular stamp e.g. a trophy badge title description date etc. Games may supply a screen snapshot or some other rich media captured at the moment the player earned a given achievement. This too may be displayed as part of the Gamer Profile . Players will accumulate gamer Cred a points based reward system based on game achievements. As shown in the player has a gamer Cred of 7 780. The display interface of may be made available within the console or via e.g. a web browser etc.

In general the player s total gamer Cred is an aggregation of gamer Cred awarded through the play of one or more games e.g. Title A and Title B . Each game may award up to a certain amount of game Cred e.g. 200 that is divided into game defined achievements and standard system achievements.

For example Title A may be a relatively easy game to master and may award a total of 100 game defined gamer Cred points. Within Title A there may be several achievements e.g. Campaign completed on hardest multiplayer level 10 etc. The relative weight of each of the achievements is set based on the total weight e.g. Campaign completed on hardest is 10 36 or 27.8 . If a player completes this achievement then the player may be awarded 27.8 of the 100 total gamer Cred points or 28 rounded to the nearest integer value. A player is preferably credited with an achievement only once.

The standard system achievements make up the remaining 100 points in the example. The standard system achievements may be applied to all games. They may include achievements such as a first sign in to a title completing a first session with a game completing a first hour of a game completing 100 sessions with a game completing 10 hours with a game completing a game etc. Other system achievements may be defined as necessary. The system achievements may be weighted such that a first sign in is awarded a relative few points whereas completing 100 sessions is awarded a higher number points.

Thus the present invention provides a game achievements system that allows comparison of achievements tiers a gaming environment. Although the various examples used herein provide particular mechanisms for displaying tier levels the notion of providing an indicator of tier level may also be extended to other mechanisms to illustrate the relative tier level differences among players.

