---

title: Low-power giant magneto-impedance magnetic detector that utilizes a crystal controlled oscillator
abstract: The present invention is an electrical circuit for a sensor designed to detect external magnetic fields. The circuit is composed of a stable voltage reference source, connected to a low frequency amplifier where the operating point of the amplifier depends on the voltage reference source that is biased for maximum allowable voltage swings of the amplifier. A GMI fiber is connected to the low frequency amplifier and to a crystal oscillator that generates a square wave excitation signal with which to excite the GMI fiber. A decoupling network connected to the amplifier allows stable excitation of the GMI fiber by separating the direct current paths of the amplifier from the excitation signal. When the GMI fiber is excited by the square wave signal the GMI fiber impedance varies with impressed magnetic fields, which in turn varies the output voltage of the amplifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07405559&OS=07405559&RS=07405559
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07405559
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060626
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to sensors and more specifically to an electronic sensor which detects and measures external magnetic fields.

The emergence of practical sensors using the giant magneto impedance GMI effect has become well known. Tiny fibers smaller than a human hair that are made from a chemical composite such as cobalt iron silicon and boron exhibit the GMI property of a changing impedance under the influence of an external magnetic field when the fiber is excited by a radio frequency signal. Amorphous cobalt rich ribbons wires and glass covered micro wires are good candidates for GMI applications.

Sensors that detect magnetic fields using GMI fibers can detect and record the magnetic characteristics of a small marine craft using a GMI fiber as small as a few millimeters. Current designs for such sensors typically utilize the reactance or even the resistive portion of the dynamic impedance of such fibers as the frequency determining elements of an oscillator. One difficulty arises when at very high resonant frequencies the oscillator drift assumes a magnitude that is significant with respect to the frequency change that is being measured to detect the magnetic field. What is needed is a sensor that detects magnetic fields using GMI fibers that is not affected by oscillator drifts.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to detect external magnetic fields with a sensor that employs a GMI fiber in an electronic circuit.

It is a further object of this invention to avoid the effect of oscillator drifts with a sensor that employs a GMI fiber in an electronic circuit.

The above objects are achieved with the present invention by an electrical circuit composed of six parts. The first part is a stable voltage reference source. The second part is a low frequency amplifier joined to the voltage reference source. The operating point of the amplifier depends on the voltage reference source that is biased for maximum allowable voltage swings of the amplifier. The third part of the circuit is a GMI fiber that connects to the low frequency amplifier and a biasing coil. The GMI fiber impedance varies with impressed magnetic fields when the fiber is excited by radio frequency signal which in turn varies the output voltage of the amplifier. The bias coil increases the sensitivity of the GMI fiber by fixing an operating point for the fiber. The fourth part is a crystal oscillator connected to a resistor and a capacitor. The oscillator generates a square wave excitation signal with which to excite the GMI fiber. The fifth part is a decoupling network comprising an inductor and capacitor that allows stable excitation of the GMI fiber by separating the direct current paths of the amplifier from the radio frequency excitation signal. Finally the sixth part of the circuit is an analog to digital converter which receives the output voltage from the amplifier.

Referring to there is shown a circuit diagram of circuit representing an embodiment of the present invention. The circuit is designed to detect magnetic fields and provide a converted analog output in either the X Y or Z Cartesian direction depending upon the orientation of the circuit components. The circuit is composed of six functional parts. The first part is a stable voltage reference source Vref. A suitable choice for this component would be the Texas Instruments TPS 79000 family of regulators available in 1.8 and 3.3 volt fixed output voltages. However the invention is not limited to this particular component.

The second part of the circuit is a very low frequency amplifier U such as a rail to rail operational amplifier connected in series with a resistor R. A rail to rail device with a high supply voltage rating and dynamic range is recommended. The voltage reference source Vref is connected to the input of amplifier U. The operating point of the amplifier U depends on the voltage reference source Vref that is biased for maximum allowable dynamic range output voltage swings of the amplifier U for the range of magnetic fields to be measured. The voltage reference Vref sets a highly stable operating point for the amplifier U when no external magnetic field is applied to the circuit .

The third part of the circuit is a GMI fiber F that connects to the low frequency amplifier U input and a magnetic bias coil LB. that is wrapped around the GMI fiber F. The GMI fiber F impedance varies with impressed magnetic fields when the fiber F is simultaneously excited by radio frequency signals. The varying impedance of the GMI fiber F in turn varies the output voltage of the amplifier U. The bias coil Lincreases the sensitivity of the GMI fiber F by fixing an operating point for the fiber F itself for best magnetic sensitivity. The bias coil Lis used to shift the magnetic operating point of the GMI fiber F so that the delta impedance per applied magnetic field curve is at its greatest slope indicating the highest sensitivity.

The fourth part of the circuit is a crystal oscillator U connected in series to a resistor R and a capacitor C. The oscillator U generates a square wave excitation signal with which to excite the GMI fiber F in order to make it sensitive to external magnetic fields. In a preferred embodiment a suitable component for the oscillator U would be the module manufactured by International Crystal Corp IT1100FSS . It provides a crystal controlled 0 to 5 volt square wave that is many times more stable than a discrete inductor capacitor L C oscillator. However the invention is not limited to the use of such oscillator.

The voltage output Vof the amplifier U with no applied magnetic field is expressed as Vref gain 1 where Vref represents the voltage in volts of the voltage reference Vref and the gain is calculated according to the equation 1 R1 direct current GMI fiber F1 resistance 2 where R is the resistance in Ohms of the resistor R. R is a feedback resistor which helps to set the gain in the non inverting feed back amplifier U. The measured direct current resistance of a inch section of a typical piece of GMI fiber F is 39 Ohms taken open circuit with no excitation.

When a magnetic field is applied the impedance of the GMI fiber F changes. GMI fibers may be synthesized to have a mainly resistive change or alternatively a reactive change under an applied magnetic field for a given excitation frequency. When F s impedance changes so does the amplifier gain and therefore the direct current output voltage Vat pin of the amplifier U.

The fifth part of the circuit is a decoupling network comprising an inductor L and capacitor C that allows stable excitation of the GMI fiber F by separating the direct current paths of the amplifier U from the radio frequency excitation signal. L acts as a short circuit of direct current while cutting off the radio frequency excitation from the amplifier portion of the circuit. Care must be taken so that the GMI fiber F s impedance does not become capacitive enough to resonate with inductor L. If this is the case a damping resistor may be added in series with the GMI fiber F ahead of the resistor R junction.

Capacitor C has the effect of alternating current ac coupling the fiber excitation so that an additional direct current voltage from the oscillator U does not build up across the GMI fiber F. The resistor R provides resistive damping so that capacitor C and inductor L do not resonate. R may also be used to bias the correct radio frequency excitation level across the GMI fiber F. This is typically in the low milliamp region for root mean square current.

Finally the sixth part of the circuit is an analog to digital converter which receives the analog output voltage from the amplifier U and converts it to a digital signal for further processing.

The advantage of the present invention is that the source of radio frequency excitation for the GMI fiber F is a highly stable controlled square wave oscillator U eliminating the requirement for designing a stable discrete component inductor capacitor RF oscillator that works in the desired frequency range such as 50 100 MHz. Oscillator drift is not an issue because a crystal is used. The present invention makes it more feasible to excite the GMI fiber F at very high frequencies which will tend to increase its sensitivity to the external magnetic field. The excitation oscillator U can operate at frequencies up to 100 MHz.

In addition since the voltage output is generated by a direct current amplifier U an extremely low bandwidth analog to digital converter 16 or 24 bits can be used which will keep power consumption down to a minimum. The circuit deliberately avoids digital logic running at high speeds. However a small low power microcontroller may be added to format data or generate the analog to digital control signals.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

