---

title: Panoramic ring user interface
abstract: A computer-readable medium and user interface for displaying media objects on a geographic map to a user are described. Indications from the user are received specifying a target location and a view direction on the geographic map. A database is accessed to retrieve media objects, either individually or in a panoramic view, that were captured in a geographic location in the proximity of the target location. The retrieved media objects are displayed on the map according to their geographic location from the target location. Enlarged versions of any of the retrieved media objects captured in the view direction from the target location are then presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453060&OS=08453060&RS=08453060
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08453060
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060825
---
The Internet has become an increasingly popular tool for locating geographic locations. Popular map services such as MapQuest present interactive maps that users can use to locate a specific location. By simply providing a street address or identifying an intersection one can quickly map the location. While such services provide an accurate map they do not tell the user anything about what the location actually looks like.

Today s map services are going one step beyond generating a map. In addition to mapping locations traditional map services are displaying aerial photographs or satellite images of various locations. For example on line services such as Windows Live Local Search or Google Maps provides an aerial view of nearly every location on the planet. Aerial views however only provide a limited view of a given location making it difficult to understand exactly what is being viewed.

Another exemplary service offered by Amazon s A9 or the technology preview of Windows Live local enables a user to select a location on a map within a list of cities and browse through photographs of that location. The photographs for the selected location are presented to the user in a slideshow. The slideshow simply displays the photographs however the direction each photograph was taken from or the time angle or perspective of each photograph is not provided. As a result it is difficult for the user to ascertain what the location actually looks like.

For example suppose a user selects an intersection of two roads to view. The corresponding photographs associated with that intersection would then be displayed. But without knowing which direction the photographs were taken the user cannot determine where objects depicted in the photographs are located. Consequently the user must guess what the specified location actually looks like from the images provided. In addition the photographs may not be current showing objects at the intersection that no longer exist. Or the user may wish to view photographs of the intersection from years ago. Thus today s map services provide no such flexibility and the user experience suffers because the perspective of what is being viewed cannot accurately be determined.

Furthermore today s interactive map services do not provide a way to interact with a panoramic 360 image such that a user can determine the actual location of the scene displayed by the panorama. Traditionally when panoramic images are displayed on an interactive map they are commonly displayed with a specific view direction that can be selectively changed. One example of such an image is the virtual tour feature used in many web sites for apartment and house listings. A user can interact with a panoramic display and change its view direction. However this experience is disjoint from the map. In an analog case to the case of viewing street side images the user had to mentally map the images to position and orientation in the map.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a user interface and computer readable medium for displaying one or more media objects related to a geographic target location on an interactive map to a user. A target location is indicated e.g. by a user selecting a point on the map referring to a geographic location corresponding to a geographic location on the interactive map or by sensing the current position of the user for example with a Global Positioning System GPS device. A database is then accessed to retrieve media objects or panoramic images captured at geographic locations near the target location. Once retrieved the media objects are positioned and displayed on the interactive map in the respective directions from the target location that each of the media objects was captured. The user indicates a view direction from the target location. Enlarged versions of the media objects with a geographic location in the view direction from the target location are then displayed. Embodiments are also directed to a user interface for displaying the interactive map target location view direction retrieved media objects and enlarged version of media objects in the view direction.

The subject matter described herein is presented with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description herein is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

In general embodiments described herein relate to an interactive map to display media objects around a selected target location. Media objects can be described as any form of stored electronic media stored such as for example digital photographs digital audio files digital video etc. Media objects may be stored as any RAW image file JPEG file TIFF file or the like.

Embodiments should not be limited however to any particular type of media object as numerous types are evident to one skilled in the art.

Having briefly described a general overview of the embodiments described herein an exemplary operating environment is described below.

Referring initially to in particular an exemplary operating environment for implementing the present invention is shown and designated generally as computing device . Computing device is but one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should computing device be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated. In one embodiment computing device is a personal computer. But in other embodiments computing device may be a cell phone digital phone handheld device personal digital assistant PDA or other device capable of executing computer instructions.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer code or machine useable instructions including computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or other machine such as a personal data assistant or other handheld device. Generally program modules including routines programs objects components data structures and the like refer to code that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may be practiced in a variety of system configurations including hand held devices consumer electronics general purpose computers more specialty computing devices etc. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

With continued reference to computing device includes a bus that directly or indirectly couples the following devices memory one or more processors one or more presentation components input output ports input output components and an illustrative power supply . Bus represents what may be one or more busses such as an address bus data bus or combination thereof . Although the various blocks of are shown with lines for the sake of clarity in reality delineating various components is not so clear and metaphorically the lines would more accurately be grey and fuzzy. For example one may consider a presentation component such as a display device to be an I O component. Also processors have memory. We recognize that such is the nature of the art and reiterate that the diagram of is merely illustrative of an exemplary computing device that can be used in connection with one or more embodiments of the present invention. Distinction is not made between such categories as workstation server laptop hand held device etc. as all are contemplated within the scope of and reference to computing device. 

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical or holographic media magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices carrier wave or any other medium that can be used to encode desired information and be accessed by computing device .

Memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The memory may be removable nonremovable or a combination thereof. Exemplary hardware devices include solid state memory hard drives optical disc drives etc. Computing device includes one or more processors that read data from various entities such as memory or I O components . Presentation component s present data indications to a user or other device. Exemplary presentation components include a display device speaker printing component vibrating component etc.

I O ports allow computing device to be logically coupled to other devices including I O components some of which may be built in. Illustrative components include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner printer wireless device etc.

The client computing device may be any type of computing device such as device described above with reference to . By way of example only and not limitation the client computing device may be a personal computer desktop computer laptop computer handheld device cellular phone digital phone PDA or the like. It should be noted that the invention is not limited to implementation on such computing devices but may be implemented on any of a variety of different types of computing devices.

Network may include any computer network or combination thereof. Examples of computer networks configurable to operate as network include without limitation a wireless network landline cable line fiber optic line LAN WAN or the like. Network is not limited however to connections coupling separate computer units. Rather network may also comprise subsystems that transfer data between servers or computing devices. For example network may also include a point to point connection tan internal system Ethernet a backplane bus an electrical bus a neural network or other internal system. In an embodiment where network comprises a LAN networking environment components are connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. In an embodiment where network comprises a WAN networking environment components use a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN to communicate. In embodiments where network comprises a MAN networking environment components are connected to the MAN using wireless interfaces or optical fiber connections. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may also be used.

The server may include any type of application server database server or file server configurable to perform the methods described herein. In addition the server may be a dedicated or shared server. One example without limitation of a server that is configurable to operate as the server is a structured query language SQL server executing server software such as SQL Server 2005 which was developed by the Microsoft Corporation headquartered in Redmond Wash.

Components of server not shown for clarity may include without limitation a processing unit internal system memory and a suitable system bus for coupling various system components including one or more databases for storing information e.g. files and metadata associated therewith . Each server typically includes or has access to a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. In general communication media enables each server to exchange data via network . More specifically communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. As used herein the term modulated data signal refers to a signal that has one or more of its attributes set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above also may be included within the scope of computer readable media.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that networking architecture is merely exemplary. While the server is illustrated as a single box one skilled in the art will appreciate that the server is scalable. For example the server may in actuality include servers in communication. Moreover the database may be included within the server of or a client computing device as a computer storage medium. The single unit depictions are meant for clarity not to limit the scope embodiments in any form.

In operation a user interacts with the client computing device via a graphical user interface. In one embodiment the graphical user interface utilizes a web browser to access a map service executing on the server . In alternative embodiments the graphical user interface accesses the map service via an application executing on the client computing device . For example the map service may be incorporated into an application such as Microsoft Pocket Streets 2005. In other embodiments the server or the database may be implemented on the client computing device . In such configurations there is no need for the network .

In an embodiment the map service is a web service configured to support interoperable machine to machine communication between the client computing device and the server . In an alternative embodiment the map service includes an application programming interface API configurable to access the database . Examples of such APIs include without limitation active data objects ADO remote data objects RDO and the like. In an alternative embodiment the client computing device contains a client application the map service and relevant map data.

In operation the map service displays an interactive map generally referenced in as depicting geographic locations on the client computing device . The user can indicate a target location illustrated in on the interactive map through various methods well known to those skilled in the art. For instance a user may enter a street address into a text field select a point with a mouse pointer zoom in and out of a region using a slide bar select a hyperlink from an independent web site touch a touch screen or utilize a track wheel. Furthermore the target location may be any geographic location on a map selected by the user.

Alternatively the target location may be indicated by an administrative user who manages the interactive map. For instance the administrative user may specify multiple points on a map designating points of interest in a given city with associated media objects displayed around the different points. In that situation each point of interest would be a target location . It will be understood that the target location also may be designated through another method of managing a web site or interactive map well known to those skilled in the art. Once indicated the target location is displayed in the user interface on the map in a display area as indicated by the point in .

Once the user selects the geographic location the map service is configured to retrieve media objects in proximity to the target location from the database . The database is a computer storage medium that is accessible by the map service and configurable to store media objects along with their associated metadata for a myriad of geographic locations. The metadata may include various parameters such as date time title location angle clarity quality or any other distinguishing characteristic. For example a photograph of a historic landmark may be captured by a digital camera with Global Positioning System GPS functionality that geocodes the photograph by automatically storing longitude and latitude information in the Exchangeable Image File EXIF format within the photograph s file. Moreover additional methods for tagging media objects with various parameters are well known to those skilled in the art and may be employed in alternative embodiments.

In an embodiment the map service then locates media objects stored in the database that illustrate images around the target location . Such a determination can be made by comparing the stored parameters of captured media objects to ascertain those taken at a location in the proximity of the target location . For example the latitude and longitude parameters of media objects stored in the database corresponding with the latitude and longitude on the map can be compared with the latitude and longitude parameters of the target location . In one embodiment media objects or versions of the media objects such as thumbnail versions retrieved from the database are displayed around the target location on the interactive map according to their orientation to the target location .

For example depicts media objects and which respectively are images from the target location to the west northeast east and southwest. Accordingly the map service is configured to display these media objects around the target location in the direction they were taken with respect to the target location. For example a photograph by an individual standing at the target location while the individual was facing east would be located like media object in . Moreover the located media objects are presented in one or more display areas on in the user interface on the map as indicated in with reference to media objects and . In one embodiment the size of media objects and may represent the view angle of the media object. For example if is taken by a camera with view angle of 40 degrees then will be display at a size that illustrates an angle of 40 degrees from the target location .

Additionally the user may indicate a view direction illustrated in to organize media objects around the target location . The view direction can be indicated by the user in one embodiment by a single gesture such as dragging a mouse pointer in a specific direction designating a cardinal direction on a compass dragging a stylus across a touch screen revolving a wheel selecting another location in addition to the target location or any other such indication. The map service is configured to display a larger version of the media object in the view direction from the target location . As is illustrated in when the view direction is designated to the east a larger version of the media object is displayed in a display area on the user interface. This enables the user to view media objects from a desired perspective. It will be appreciated that a user may use a single gesture in any direction and the media object closest to the associated direction is displayed. For example if a user indicates a due north direction in a larger version of media object which is in a northeastern view will be displayed.

The user may wish to restrict the number of media objects presented around the target location by a specific parameter. For instance the user may only wish to view the most recent photographs. Or the user may only wish to view images from two years ago. Alternatively the user may wish to view images taken at a specific picture quality. In one embodiment the web service provides options not pictured in for clarity such as a menu option text entry pick menu or the like for restricting displayed media objects by a parameter such as time quality clarity location angle and direction. In operation the web service uses the parameters as an additional search criteria for searching the database for media objects. Consequently only the images satisfying the parameters are displayed around the target location . Alternatively the user interface may be configured to display multiple media objects in the same view direction sorted by the parameter. For example if there are seven photographs taken to the east of the target location of a different quality may be presented east of the target location and they may be layered over one another with the photograph of highest quality being media object .

As previously mentioned traditional methods of viewing panoramic images do not provide a method for determining the geographic orientation of a scene displayed in a panorama. For example a user viewing a panoramic image taken in between four adjacent buildings on a college campus cannot tell which building stood to the north south east or west. In another example if the user is permitted to view the panoramic image interactively by selectively changing the viewing direction such as in a virtual tour the user still could not decipher the geographic orientation of the image. In both examples the user could see what each building looked like but has no idea where the building is located.

The web service may generate the panoramic image around the target location in a number of ways well known to those of skill in the art. For example the panoramic image may be stored in database as a panoramic image with a geocode close to the target location in which case the panorama is simply retrieved. Such images may be captured by a panoramic camera such as the Mark III by Panoscan .

Alternatively the web service may construct a panoramic images from a plurality of individual images. In one embodiment the map service is configured to search the database for individual images with geocodes indicating that the images surround the target location . The map service then affixes each image to one another to create a panoramic image. Other methods for assembling or retrieving panoramic images may also be used and are generally well known to those of skill in the art.

Referring to once the panoramic image is presented to the user the user may indicate the viewing direction from the target location in any of the aforementioned manners. As a result an enlarged image of a portion of the panoramic image in the viewing direction is displayed to the user.

With reference to the user may also indicate parameters to view images in the panoramic image . For example suppose a user wished to view an image of a tree depicted in the panoramic image as it looked ten years ago. By indicating a time for viewing the image and the specified direction the web service could locate and display a ten year old image of the tree . It will be understood that any of the above parameters e.g. time direction angle quality etc. may also be used in the same manner.

In an embodiment additional media objects with different parameters may be displayed as portion of a ring beyond the panoramic image . For example with reference to the ten year old image is displayed as a portion of a further panoramic image beyond the panoramic image . This indicates to the user that the ten year old image was taken at a different time than the panoramic image .

A similar method of indicating separate media objects of the same location but with different parameters can also be used with still media objects. For example with reference to a photograph taken at a different angle than media object can be displayed further to the east of the target location than media object . Alternatively media objects can be displayed around the target location at distances relative to the images captured therein. For example media objects and may be positioned away from the target location at distances corresponding to the actual distances the images captured in the media objects lie away from the target location . As previously mentioned it will be understood that any of the aforementioned parameters may also be used in the same manner.

With reference to a flow diagram is illustrated showing a method for presenting media objects or panoramic images to a user in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Initially an indication from a user specifying a target location on a geographic map is received as indicated at . The indication may be sent for example by selecting a location on the map randomly or when a target location already has media objects displayed around it e.g. an administrator has designated points of interest for a city . In one embodiment an indication for a panoramic image is independently received as indicated at .

Subsequently a database e.g. database is searched in order to retrieve either a panoramic image one or more media objects or a combination thereof around the target location as indicated at and . In one embodiment parameters of the media objects in the database are compared with the parameters of the target location to find media objects in the same proximity. As previously mentioned such parameters may include geographic location geocodes time data clarity resolution angle etc. In another embodiment media objects images are around the target location are found by comparing the latitude and longitude of the media objects in the database with the latitude and longitude of the target location.

The retrieved media objects image are then presented to the user as indicated at on the map via a user interface. They may be positioned on the map such that each media object is placed in the direction from the target location that the media object was captured. In one embodiment the media objects are presented in a similar fashion to that depicted in . In another embodiment a retrieved panoramic image is presented in a similar fashion to that depicted in .

The user can also indicate a view direction from the target location on the geographic map as indicated at by a gesture. In one embodiment the user drags a mouse pointer in a certain direction to indicate the view direction. Alternatively the user selects an end location on the map and the view direction is calculated from the target location to the end location. The view direction can be indicated by any of the aforementioned gestures. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other methods may also be used. Next a version of the one or more media objects images in the view direction are presented to the user as indicated at .

With reference to a flow diagram is illustrated showing a method for presenting media objects to a user according to embodiments of the present invention. Initially an indication from a user specifying a view direction is received as indicated at . The view direction may be indicated by any of the aforementioned methods.

Then a database is accessed for one or more media objects captured in the user specified direction from the target location as indicated at . The media objects can be found in the database using any of the aforementioned methods such as comparing latitudes and longitudes of saved media objects or comparing various other parameters.

Once found enlarged versions of the media objects are presented to the user in display areas of a graphical user interface. Such versions may include for example thumbnail versions full screen versions separate displays or any other depiction of a media object.

The present invention has been described herein in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its scope.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain all the ends and objects set forth above together with other advantages which are obvious and inherent to the system and method. It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

