---

title: Intervertebral disc prosthesis with transversally arched, curved cyclindrical articulation surfaces for the lumbar and cervical spine
abstract: An intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of a intervertebral disc within the lumbar and cervical spine is disclosed. The intervertebral disc prosthesis comprises articulating sliding partners, wherein the upper sliding partner has means for a firm assembly to an upper vertebral body and the lower sliding partner has means for a firm assembly to a lower vertebral body and at least one sliding surface that is between two sliding partners. Functional two- and three part designs are planned and both prostheses have in common, that only a dorsoventral- and rotation movement is possible as a result of laterolaterally aimed, transversally arched, ventrally curved cylindrical convexity(ies) and corresponding concavity(ies), however without an inclination of the sliding partners in a lateral direction. In a further design, the cylindrical articulation surfaces have no curvature, enabling a motion of the sliding partners in only a ventrodorsal direction. According to the invention, the intervertebral disc prostheses are suited for implantation from lateral and ventrolateral, particularly in revision surgeries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08016888&OS=08016888&RS=08016888
owner: 
number: 08016888
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060418
---
This is a continuation in part application of international application no. PCT DE2005 001886 filed Oct. 18 2005 designating the U.S. and claiming priority from international application no. PCT DE2004 002333 filed Oct. 18 2004. Both of these applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc of the lumbar and cervical spine.

The idea of function retaining artificial replacements for intervertebral discs is younger than that for replacements of artificial joints of extremities but nonetheless about 50 years old Buttner Janz Hochschuler McAfee Eds. The Artificial Disc. Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York 2003 . It results from biomechanical considerations unsatisfactory results of fusion surgeries disorders adjacent to fusion segments and the development of new materials with greater longevity.

The publications and other materials including patents used herein to illustrate the invention and in particular to provide additional details respecting the practice are incorporated herein by reference.

By means of function retaining disc implants it is possible to avoid fusion surgery i.e. to maintain or to restore the mobility within the intervertebral disc space. In an in vitro experiment it is also possible to achieve a normalization of the biomechanical properties of the motion segment to a large extent through the implantation of an artificial intervertebral disc after a nucleotomy.

Implants for the replacement of the whole intervertebral disc differ from those for the replacement of the nucleus pulposus. Accordingly implants for the total replacement of the intervertebral disc are voluminous they are implanted via a ventral approach. An implantation of a prosthesis for total replacement of the intervertebral disc immediately after a standard nucleotomy can therefore not be carried out.

The indication for a function retaining intervertebral disc replacement as an alternative to the surgical fusion includes besides the painful discopathy also pre operated patients with a so called post discectomy syndrome patients with a recurrent herniated intervertebral disc within the same segment and patients having a pathology within the neighboring intervertebral disc as a consequence fusion surgery.

Presently a total of more than 10 different prostheses are clinically used for the total replacement of intervertebral discs. For the lumbar spine the CHARIT Artificial Disc the PRODISC the MAVERICK the FLEXICORE and the MOBIDISC Overview in Clinical Reports PJB Publications Ltd. June 2004 are particularly well known and for the cervical spine the BRYAN prosthesis the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis the PRODISC C and the PCM prosthesis which will be described below.

The PRODISC prosthesis for the lumbar spine is being implanted since 1999 following its further development to the PRODISC II. The PRODISC prosthesis has been in use as a lumbar spine implant since 1999 until it was replaced by the further developed PRODISC II. Although with respect to its components a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is functionally a two part prosthesis with its sliding partners made of metal and polyethylene. Implantations of the PRODISC are carried out in the lumbar spine and with an adapted model of the prosthesis the PRODISC C also in the cervical spine. Different sizes heights achieved by the polyethylene core and angles of lordosis achieved by the metal endplates are available. Bending forward and backward as well as to the right and to the left is possible to the same extent of motion the axial rotation is not limited in the construction.

The same applies to both two part prostheses for the cervical spine the PCM prosthesis with its sliding partners metal and polyethylene and the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis with its sliding partners metal. As special feature of the construction of the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis it has the possibility for an anterior posterior translation due to the horizontal ventrally prolonged concavity which in a frontal section has the same radius as the convexity.

The MAVERICK and the FLEXICORE for the lumbar spine are functionally a two part prostheses with spherical convex concave sliding partners both with sliding partners made of metal. In contrast the MOBIDISC is functionally a three part prosthesis with sliding partners of metal polyethylene and two articulation surfaces. One area is a segment of a sphere as it is in the three afore mentioned prostheses with a convex and a concave surface of the articulating partners each of the same radius the other area of the MOBIDISC being plane. Although a limitation of the axial rotation is planned within the plane section it is not limited within the convex concave area of articulation. In contrast the FLEXICORE has a small stopping area within the spherical sliding surfaces limiting the rotation movement.

The BRYAN prosthesis is clinically used as a compact prosthesis for total replacement of intervertebral discs of the cervical spine. It is attached to the vertebral bodies by convex titanium plates with a porous surface and achieves its biomechanical properties by virtue of a polyurethane nucleus.

The longest experience exists with the CHARIT prosthesis which is the subject matter of DE 35 29 761 C2 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269. This prosthesis was developed in 1982 by Dr. Schellnack und Dr. B ttner Janz at the Charit in Berlin and was later on named SB CHARIT prosthesis. In 1984 the first surgery took place. The intervertebral disc prosthesis was further developed into model III and has been implanted over 10 000 times worldwide DE 35 29 761 C2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 since 1987 and is still being used. The prosthesis is functionally a three parted being with the sliding partners being metal and polyethylene with two identical spherical sliding surfaces. It has a transversally mobile polyethylene core and the accordingly adapted concave cups within two metal endplates. For the adaptation to the intervertebral space the CHARIT prosthesis provides different sizes of metal plates and different heights of size adapted sliding cores as well as angled prosthetic endplates which when implanted vice versa in sagittal direction can also be used as replacement for the vertebral body. The primary fixation of the CHARIT prosthesis is achieved by six teeth which are located in groups of three slightly towards the middle next to the frontal and rear edge of each prosthetic plate.

The other prosthesis have other primary fixations on their surfaces directed towards the intervertebral bodies e.g. a sagitally running keel a structured surface a convex shape with for instance crosswise running grooves and combinations thereof also with differently located teeth. Furthermore screw fixations can be used either from ventral or from within the intervertebral space into the intervertebral body.

To assure a long term fixation of the prosthetic endplates to the intervertebral bodies and to thus generate a firm connection with the bone a surface was created in similitude to cement free hip and knee prostheses which combines chrome cobalt titanium and calcium phosphate in such a way that it is possible for bone to grow directly onto the endplates. This direct connection between prosthesis and bone without the development of connective tissue makes a long term fixation of the artificial intervertebral disc possible and reduces the danger of loosening or displacements of the prosthesis and material breakage.

One primary objective of function retaining intervertebral disc replacements is to closely adapt the motions of the prosthesis to the ones of a healthy intervertebral disc. Directly connected to this is the motion and stress for the facet joints which following inappropriate biomechanical stress have their own potential for disorders. There can be abrasion of the facet joints arthritis spondylarthritis a formation of osteophytes. As result of these osteophytes and also by a pathologic course of motion of the intervertebral disc alone the irritation of neural structures is possible.

The healthy intervertebral disc is in its interactions with other elements of the motion segment composed in such a way that it allows for limited motion. For example within the intervertebral disc motions to the front and back are combined with rotary motions and side motions are also combined with other motions. The motion amplitudes of a healthy intervertebral disc are very different with respect to the extension bending back and flexion bending forward as well as to the lateral bending right and left and rotary motion. Although of common basic characteristics there are differences between the motion amplitudes of the lumbar and cervical spine.

During motion of the intervertebral disc the centre of rotation changes i.e. the motion of the intervertebral disc does not take place around a fixed center. Due to a simultaneous translation movement of the adjacent vertebrae the center changes its position constantly inconstant center of rotation . The prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 shows a construction which differs relative to other available types of prostheses which are build like a ball and socket joint and as a result move around a defined localized centre of rotation. By virtue of the three part assembly of the prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 with two metallic endplates and the interpositioned freely mobile polyethylene sliding core the course of motion of a healthy intervertebral disc of the human spine is mimicked as far as possible however without the exact motion amplitudes in the specific motion directions.

A further important feature of the healthy lumbar intervertebral disc is its trapezium shape which is primarily responsible for the lordosis of the lumbar and cervical spine. The vertebral bodies themselves contribute only to a minor extent to the lordosis. During prosthetic replacement of intervertebral discs the lordosis should be maintained or reconstructed. The Charit disc prosthesis provides four differently angled endplates which moreover can be combined with each other. However this surgery requires more surgical effort and has the risk of damaging the vertebral endplates which is associated with a danger of subsidence of the prosthesis into the vertebral bodies. Additionally if the adjustment of the lordosis is poor and an optimal load of the center of the polyethylene core was not achieved the prosthesis has to be removed completely.

To avoid sliding or a slip out of the middle sliding partner from the endplates DE 35 29 761 C2 discloses a sliding core with a two sided partly spherical surface lenticular with a plane leading edge and at the exterior with a ring bulge which will lock between the form adapted endplates during extreme motion. DE 102 42 329 A1 discloses a similar intervertebral disc prosthesis which has a groove around the contact surfaces in which an elastic ring is embedded that is in contact with the opposite contact area for better guidance.

EP 0 560 141 B1 describes a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis which also comprises two endplates and an interpositioned prosthetic core. The intervertebral disc prosthesis described in this document provides resistance during rotation of its endplates in opposing directions around a vertical rotary axis without a contact between the prosthetic endplates. This is achieved by a soft limitation of the endplates during rotation onto the prosthesis core caused by the weight which acts on the plates as a result of the biomechanical load transfer within the spine because the corresponding radii of curvature differ in a median sagittal and frontal transection.

The above mentioned models are permanently anchored in the intervertebral spaces as implants. Especially due to a load transfer over too small surface areas a migration of the endplates into the vertebral bodies and thus a dislocation of the complete implant is possible in middle to long term use resulting in artificial stress for the vertebral bodies and the adjacent nerves and in the end for the total motion segment and leading to new complaints of the patients. The longevity of the polyethylene also needs to be discussed because destructions of the sliding cores has been observed which necessitated revision surgery so far in the form of a fusion of the motion segment

The risk of postoperatively persisting complaints is higher if the facet joints of the surgical segment already show signs of arthritis at prosthetic implantation. It also has to be taken into account that a too large segmental range of motion resulting from the design of the prosthesis may potentially lead to new complaints for the patient. This is most likely caused by an overloading or malapropos stress on the facet joints which may lead to painful arthritis. The same applies to prosthesis that have been implanted frontally inclined or that have postoperatively developed a malapropos positioning. Furthermore fusion surgery leads to an increased strain on the neighboring segments with the danger of a later indication for surgery at this level. An intervertebral disc prosthesis with a segmental partial function may thus present a solution to this problem.

EP 1 039 855 B1 discloses a partially cylindrical implant for the intervertebral space. This implant has an elastic core which is located between two end plates that are assembled to an upper and a lower vertebral body. Motion within the intervertebral space is only possible as far as the elastic core can be compressed.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 539 409 also discloses a partially cylindrical implant for the intervertebral space. Such as implant has a rough surface and as per the invention is to be filled with substances that will encourage the fusion of the implant with the bone of the neighboring vertebra. A motion of the affected segment of the spine after implantation is therefore not possible.

Furthermore intervertebral disc prostheses from the state of the art known have one or more cylindrical compressible middle parts. An example can be found in CA 2 376 097 A1 which discloses a prosthesis comprising a cylindrical upper and lower hull in between which a cylindrical middle part made of an elastic material is positioned.

In the intervertebral disc prostheses with a cylindrical core known from the state of the art this is mostly made of an elastic material or is firmly assembled to the neighboring vertebral body. U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 discloses a lateral section partially cylindrical articulation area of a two part intervertebral disc prosthesis which permits a bending to the sides via the lateral edges of the cylindrical marginal convexity so that the load bearing on the endplates is partially only on the edges and so that an increased wear of these regions of the articulation areas is to be expected. Such a prosthesis can only be implanted by ventral surgery because of the size of the keels and or the fixation of the prosthesis is by means of screwing.

There is a need for an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of the intervertebral disc which will enable a dorsoventral and a rotational motion of a spinal segment but does not allow for sideways bending. It will be possible to implant the prosthesis by surgery from ventrolateral and lateral as well.

This need is addressed by the present invention. The invention comprises two different types of an intervertebral disc prosthesis namely a functionally two part and a functionally three part prosthesis.

Both prostheses comprise of articulating sliding partners of which each upper sliding partner is firmly assembled to an upper vertebral body and each lower sliding partner is firmly assembled to a lower vertebral body and that the sliding partners form interdigitating articulations areas on their inner surfaces that are directed towards each other. The upper and lower sliding partner of a three part prosthesis as well as both sliding partners of a two part prosthesis simultaneously act as endplates having means for an assembly to an upper or lower vertebral body.

The arched curvation of the cylindrical convexities and the corresponding concavities is only intended to a small degree. By virtue of the ventrally arched curvation of the articulation area of the prosthesis another partial function of the natural intervertebral disc besides the motion in ventral and dorsal direction is realized namely rotation. The facet joints in the human body are approximately located on the sector or circularly parallel to it which is partially formed by the arched curvation of the articulation areas with a particularly advantageous biomechanical influence on the facet joints during rotation. The rotation of the sliding partners towards each other results in less strain and maintains the boundary between the bone and the implant while preserving the prosthesis material.

As per the invention it is intended that the ventral and dorsal radii of curvature of the cylindrical convexity and the corresponding concavity run towards each other with a constant distance in the transversal overview because the ventral and dorsal curvature is derived from two circles with different radii but identical midpoints. As per the invention it is however also intended that the segmental arches do not run towards each other with a constant distance and that they either run towards each other in lateral direction or that they have an increasing distance between them laterally. In the first case the convexity and corresponding concavity would taper off laterally so that more play arises for a combined rotation and inclination motion. In the second case the contact area of the convexity with the concavity would be larger which would result in an improved durability of the material of the articulation areas.

On the whole the maximally possible motion of the sliding partners of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is defined

The two and three part prostheses are particularly advantageous in cases of implantations in multiple adjacent intervertebral spaces because of the model immanent stability. They are also advantageous for intervertebral spaces that are inclined to the left or right and which are to be corrected. Furthermore the two and three part prostheses can be implanted in patients where the implantation is to be carried out from a lateral or ventrolateral approach e.g. via a trans psoas approach. Such an indication would for instance be given in patients who have previously had surgery to the spine from a ventral approach who require a change of prostheses after primary implantation of a prosthesis from a ventral approach because the scarring of the large blood vessels in the ventral region of the spine presents a considerably increased surgical risk in cases of a ventral re operation. With a lateral approach the annulus fibrosus can be incised generously on one side so that an optimal prosthesis with respect to the area for the purpose of a load transfer over a large area can be positioned without a postoperatively arising frontal segmental inclination as a result of the one sided lateral liberation of the intervertebral disc. It is further feasible that patients who have arthritis of the facet joints without osteophytes can be treated because postoperatively bending motions to both lateral sides do not stresses these joints.

Because of the narrow anatomical space the two part prosthesis is more suited for the cervical spine. The three part intervertebral disc prosthesis has the advantage that the transversal sliding of two neighboring vertebrae is minimal resulting in a very favorable adaptation to the bio mechanics of the motion segment of the lumbar spine. However the three part prosthesis enables the simulation of an inconstant center of rotation.

With respect to the present invention the three body axes are described by the following terms A sagittal section or a view in the sagittal plane enables a lateral view because the section plane runs vertically from the front to the back. The term front is synonymous ventral and the term back to dorsal because using these terms the orientation of the prosthesis within the body is indicated. A frontal section or the frontal plane is a vertical cross section from one side to the other. The term lateral stands for sidewise. Sagittal and frontal sections are vertical sections as they both run in a vertical plane but 90 degree displaced from one another. A view in the transversal plane or a transversal section shows a top view onto the prosthesis because it is a horizontal section.

With respect to the description and depiction of the present invention an articulation area signifies that region of the sliding partners which comprises the curved convex and concave parts of the surfaces which come into contact or articulate with each other. Because of this the articulation area is synonymous with the term sliding area.

The term corresponding with respect to the articulating sliding surfaces designates not only congruent convex and concave shaped surfaces articulating with each other. Moreover this term also designates articulating surfaces that are not completely congruent. Such deviations or tolerances regarding the sliding surfaces of articulating sliding partners can be caused by the chosen materials and shapes. Alternatively the convexity and the concavity may intentionally be not completely congruent for instance in order to specifically assign the desired range of motion of the articulating partners.

Besides the advantages resulting from the shape of the arched curved convex concave parts of the articulation surfaces as per the invention the intervertebral disc prostheses have further advantages. The concavities of upper and lower sliding partner of a two and three part intervertebral disc prosthesis are each enclosed by a edge whereas the convexities of a middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis range through the whole upper and lower side i.e. the convexities are without edge or the convexities are each enclosed by a edge with a similar or different breadth.

An edge as per the invention indicates an area located between outer rim of the respective sliding partner and convexity ies or concavity ies . The edges of the respective sliding partners run horizontally and or obliquely and preferably have a plane surface. It is essential for the design of the surfaces of the edges that during terminal inclination of the sliding partners towards each other a maximally possible contact between the edges of the sliding partners is guaranteed. Should the edges not have a plane surface they have to in any case be designed in such a way that when they close towards each other a maximally possible contact arises between them. The height of the edges at the articulation area and the area of the edge along the ventral or dorsal articulation area is equally or differently designed however the marginal height may vary in such a way from ventral to dorsal that the motion possibility is purposefully larger to the ventral than to the dorsal direction.

The edges of the convexity ies and concavity ies always have without incline of the sliding partners towards each other an outward opening angle aperture angle in every sagittal section plane. During terminal inclination of the sliding partners towards each other anteriorly and posteriorly it comes to a gap closure between the edges of the articulation areas. The maximal inclination angles are limited by contact of the transition area between convex and concave articulation areas. Although this contact is limiting for the further motion of the sliding partners towards each other it is not the only area outside the concave convex articulation areas which comes into contact at terminal inclination. The edges of the sliding partners up unto their peripheral rim are designed in such a way that these also participate in the gap closure.

By this measure as per the invention the load bearing surface area is increased at terminal inclination of the prosthesis during which an inclination of the prosthesis up until its limitation takes place. The areas in contact are further protected against wear because the pressure is taken up by a plane surface and not by small contact areas resulting in a more durable prosthesis.

As per the invention it is further intended that a cylindrical convexity has one sidedly conically diminishing radii along its longitudinal axis. In such a model the edge has according adaptations so that the ventrodorsal and rotation motions are still possible. By virtue of this leaning cylinder it is possible to make adaptations to maladjustment of the intervertebral space and or to sustain or balance an existing scoliosis where it is indicated.

In a preferred version it is intended for the cylindrical convexities and corresponding concavities have a curvation that equals zero.

Regarding the material of the prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that the sliding partners are built as a single piece or at least one sliding partner comprises at least two permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts whereas the convexity ies and or the concavity ies are the parts being permanently or firmly but reversibly assembled to the corresponding sliding partner or the convexity ies and or concavity ies having suitable means for a permanent or firm but reversible assembly whereby with each other connected parts comprise the same or different materials or the surfaces of the parts are coated equally or differently. As suitable means for the assembly adaptations of the shape of the parts to be connected as per the invention are intended such as flat broadenings which are part of the edge or which form the whole edge or recesses.

As far as an intervertebral disc prosthesis comprises permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts it is intended that the assembly is achieved by a tongue and groove assembly a track and corresponding recess a snap mechanism gluing or screwing.

For a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that upper and lower sliding partner comprise the same material or are equally coated and the middle sliding partner is made of a different material or is differently coated. It is further intended that all three sliding partners are made of the same material or have the same coating.

The sliding partners are manufactured from well established materials in implantation techniques for instance upper and lower sliding partner are made of rust free metal and the middle sliding partner of medicinal polyethylene. Other combinations of materials are also possible. The use of other alloplastic materials which may also be bio active is also intended. The sliding partners have a high gloss polish at their contact areas to minimize abrasion low friction principle . Furthermore a coating of the particular sliding partner with appropriate materials is also planned. Favored materials are titanium titanium alloys titanium carbide alloys of cobalt and chrome or other appropriate metals tantalum or appropriate tantalum alloys suitable ceramic materials as well as suitable plastics or compound materials.

For a three part prosthesis as per the invention it is further intended that the radii of curvature of the cylindrical convexities of upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner as well as the corresponding concavities of the upper and lower sliding partner are identical or different. At identically as well as differently bent convexities on upper and lower side it is dependent on the design furthermore intended that the maximal height of the convexities of the middle sliding partner on the upper and lower side be different so that the convexities consist in the sagittal view of peripheral segments of a circle which cannot be put together to form a complete circular arch. Depending on the model the height of the edge of the middle sliding partner is either reduced by the same amount as the height of the convexity ies or the height of the edge remains the same or is different from the change of height of the convexity ies with the maximal height of the convexities thus remaining the same or being different on the upper and lower side.

By these measures as per the invention the total height of the prosthesis is reduced because the middle sliding partner is flattened. By this design dimensions of the prosthesis are thus reached which makes it possible to implant it into physiologically extremely small intervertebral spaces. Additionally such a design enables the variability of the height of the middle sliding partner and by this the possibility to get a prosthesis adapted to the required height.

For a two or three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention a maximal aperture angle if 6 10 including for example 6 7 6 8 6 9 7 8 7 9 7 10 8 9 8 10 during one sided gap closure of the sliding partners during extension or flexion is intended. The concrete maximal motions can be constructively adapted for the lumbar and cervical spine without the need of an individual prosthesis for every single intervertebral disc. The dorsal and ventral aperture angles correspond to the natural segmental mobility and are reached by suitable choices of convexities and concavities in connection with the design of the surrounding edges. That way a ventrally larger inclination of the sliding partners towards each other than dorsally is enabled which correlates to the physiological situation of the lumbar spine. To compensate for the tolerances within the motion segment an additional 30 will be included for every direction of motion.

For a functional two part as well as for a functional three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention a transversal ventrally directed arched cylindrical convexity and concavity of articulating sliding partners enables as well as limits a rotation around a fictitious vertical axis. By virtue of this model as per the invention a rotation of the sliding partners towards each other is enabled which depending on the extent of the arched curvation allows a rotation around a fictitious central vertical axis of up to 3 degrees including up to about 2 degrees or up to about 1 degree for the lumbar spine and up to 6 degrees including up to about 5 degrees up to about 4 degrees up to about 3 degrees up to about 2 degrees or up to about 1 degree for the cervical spine to each side. To compensate for the tolerances within the motion segment an additional 2 degrees to each side is included.

In a further preferred design of a two or three part intervertebral disc prostheses as per the invention a shift of up to 4 mm including up to about 3 mm up to about 2 mm or up to about 1 mm away from a midline sagittal section to dorsal of the convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies is intended.

Particularly a dorsally displaced center of rotation corresponds above all to the physiological situation between the lumbar spine and the sacral bone and at same time the differences between the possible inclination angles in extension and flexion are achieved.

It is furthermore intended that the edges of the sliding partners end outwardly rectangular otherwise angular curved or combined straight curved and or angular. In the case of three part prosthesis it is further intended that the convexities of the middle sliding partner peripherally end symmetrically or asymmetrically rectangularly otherwise angled in the shape of a hemisphere rounded off or flattened to both lateral sides. The articulating concavity has a shape corresponding to the lateral shape of the convexity. The middle sliding partner still remains between the upper and lower sliding partner during terminal inclination thus making possible a very compact and economic with respect to space construction of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention.

A slip out of the middle sliding partner out of this compact design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is prevented by the heights of the convexities on the upper and lower side and the corresponding concavities starting with the edge around the articulation areas and by the closed gap between the edges of the sliding partners at terminal inclination. The convexities are designed in such a way that they will interdigitate deeply enough into the articulating concavities. A sufficient opening of the whole prosthesis post operatively which is a prerequisite for a slip out of the middle sliding partner is thus not possible.

Furthermore it is intended as per the invention that in the case of a middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis as an additional safeguard a stop against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis during a gap closure of all three sliding partners is provided. This is part of the outer edge of the middle sliding partner or the sliding core. The stop of the middle sliding partner is located next to the periphery of the upper and or lower sliding partner and is higher at least on the upper or the lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner.

This stop as an additional safeguard against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis can as per the invention also be designed in such a way that it is part of the edge of the middle sliding partner which is higher on the upper and or lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner and is conducted within a groove in the edge of the upper and or the lower sliding partner with the necessary liberty for the maximal sliding motion of the sliding partners.

As per the invention a stop is an outwardly directed extension of the edge of a middle sliding partner which as result of its design is suited to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding partner out of the concavities of the upper and lower sliding partner. It is not necessary that the stop encloses the middle sliding partner completely because this could result in a limitation of the maximal mobility of all sliding partners. Where required it is arranged in definite distances or opposite of positions of the edge which represent possible positions for a slip out of the middle sliding partner. If the stop is higher on the upper and lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner it can for instance be shaped like a drawing pin sticking with the tip from outside into the edge so that the head of the drawing pin juts out over the upper and lower edge of the middle sliding partner and prevents a slip out of the middle sliding partner during a terminal inclination in direction of the drawing pin by stopping its movement via contact to the upper and lower sliding partner.

If a stop as a safeguard to prevent slip out is part of the edge of the sliding partners the height of the convexity depends only with regard to the anatomy and the material properties on the wanted maximal inclination angles which is also influenced by this see above .

A stop to secure the middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis is advantageously shaped in such a way that it also takes part in the gap closure during terminal inclination of the sliding partners. Due to this fact the stop functions not only as a safeguard but additionally it increases the load bearing area during terminal inclination of the sliding partners the advantages of this have been described above. The possibility for such a design however depends crucially on the external shape of the upper and lowers sliding partner and the respective breadth of the edge of the convexity and concavity.

In a further design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is intended that the height of the edge of the middle sliding partner partly or totally continuously increases beginning from the transition area between the convexity and the edge up unto the peripheral edge area. This is intended without the size of the aperture angle changing as a result of an adaptation to the height of the edge of the upper and lower sliding partner. This dovetail shape of the edge of the middle sliding partner increases the safeguard against dislocation.

As per the invention a shape for the upper and lower sliding partner is intended for three part prosthesis in which the peripheral edge areas are complete or partly hook shaped perpendicular otherwise angular curved or a combination thereof in direction of the other outer sliding partner. In this design the edge of the middle sliding partner is narrower there so that the middle sliding partner is partly or completed covered by the feature of one or both outer sliding partners in order to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding device. Advantageously the edge of the middle sliding partner is adapted in such a way to the shape of the edge of the outer sliding partners that during terminal gap closure as high as possible an area of the articulating sliding partners comes into contact.

Further it is intended for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention that the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partner may taper off from dorsal to ventral lumbar spine or from ventral to dorsal cervical spine in a transversal view. This tapering off of the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partner may laterally be in the form of identical curves and is preferably a segment of a circle. Where necessary area and shape of the outer circumference of the upper and lower sliding partner can be equal or unequal and thus adapted to the size of the respective vertebral body to which they are assembled.

The tapering off shape of the upper and lower sliding partner generally corresponds to the prosthetic plates usable area of a vertebral body in a transversal view and thus leads to an optimal utilisation of the available area of a vertebral body for the anchoring of the sliding partners with the objective of a load transfer onto as large as possible a surface area of the load bearing on the sliding partners

Adaptations to the sliding partners as per the invention of the intervertebral disc prosthesis are further intended in which upper and or lower sliding partner are built in such a way in a frontal and or sagittal section that the out and inside of the upper and or lower sliding partner are parallel or not parallel to each other. By this measure as per the invention an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention can be adapted to vertebral body endplates which are not standing parallel in a frontal view or which in a sagittal view should build an optimal lordosis and positioning of the sliding areas.

It is further intended that in a two and three part design as per the invention the convexity two part prosthesis or the middle sliding partner three part prosthesis is parallel or unparallel with respect to a fictitious horizontal. In the case of an unparallel design upper and lower side stand in an angle with respect to a fictitious horizontal with the angle being the same above and below or different with a middle sliding partner. The convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies in the two and three part prosthesis are symmetrical or asymmetrical in their surface design. By virtue of the angular convexity or the angular middle sliding partner adaptations to asymmetries of the intervertebral space into which the prosthesis is to be implanted are also possible.

In a preferred model the transversal ventrally running arched curvation of the convexities each differ from the middle to lateral side. The concavities of the articulation sliding partners have correspondingly arched curvations. In this case of a ventrally asymmetrically running arched curvation alternative an interruption of the convexity is centrally intended with in this case the respectively corresponding concavity being able to have an interruption in form of a bridge.

The different arched curvations offer the advantage that adaptations to the different positions of the facet joints can be made. This enables an optimal integration of the position of the facets of the facet joints within the asymmetrically ventrally arched convexities during rotation.

For a reliable anchorage of the implants within the intervertebral space a marginal and or plane interdigitation of the exterior sides of the upper and lower sliding partner serves for the connection with an upper and lower vertebral body. The exterior sides themselves are flat or convex in shape and it is possible to coat the interdigitation or the vertebra directed surfaces with or without interdigitation bio actively or blunt. To minimize the risk of fracturing the vertebral body a fixation with three ventrally arranged and two dorsally placed anchoring teeth is preferred. As an alternative laterally continuously arranged rows of teeth from front and back or obliquely running rows of teeth are favoured for the implantation of the prosthesis from lateral and ventrolateral approaches and for an improved guidance of the upper and lower sliding partner during implantation between the vertebral bodies because the forceps of the surgeon can grip in the middle gap between the rows of teeth or into holes of the upper and lower sliding partner at the level with the teeth.

To facilitate implantation or explantation of the intervertebral disc prosthesis the upper and or lower sliding partner are furbished with a provision for instruments in a further design. These provisions preferably comprise holes or moulds into which the required instrument of the surgeon can grip so that a secure fixation of the respective sliding partner is possible.

Furthermore as absolute measurements for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention a maximal breadth frontal view of 14 to 48 mm including about 16 mm about 18 mm about 20 mm about 22 mm about 24 mm about 26 mm about 28 mm about 30 mm about 32 mm about 34 mm about 36 mm about 38 mm about 40 mm about 42 mm about 44 mm or about 46 mm a maximal depth sagittal view of 11 to 35 mm including about 13 about 15 mm about 17 mm about 19 mm about 21 mm about 23 mm about 25 mm about 27 mm about 29 mm about 31 mm about 33 mm and a maximal height of 4 to 18 mm including about 6 mm about 8 mm about 10 mm about 12 mm about 14 mm or about 16 mm are intended. These measurements are taken from the natural conditions of the lumbar and cervical spine and assure that the situation with an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention comes very close to the in vivo situation.

Further for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention one or more X ray contrast giving markers are provided which are located under the surface of each of the non X ray contrast giving parts of the prosthesis. That way it is possible to exactly control the position of these parts of the intervertebral disc prosthesis immediately after the implantation. Furthermore it is possible to check if these parts have changed their position or if they are still in the right position in defined timely intervals.

Further useful measures are described in the dependent claims the invention is described in the following by examples and figures.

The ventral and dorsal curvation of the convexity of the middle sliding partner is derived from two circles with different radii but identical mid points. The radii of curvature run in a constant distance towards each other. As per the invention it is however intended that the secants can laterally run towards each other or diverge. The right part of and each schematically show a frontal section of the prosthesis shown on the left. In and the position of the three sections A A A A and A A is shown onto which in a sagittal view is depicted respectively.

In the left as well as the right parts of it can be well seen that in the case of not rotated sliding partners i.e. when the external circumferences of upper and lower sliding partner completely lie above each other in the transversal view the concavity of the upper and lower sliding partner is shaped a little broader to the left and right of the convexity of the middle sliding partner so that clearance for the motion of the convexity of the middle sliding partner within the concavity of the upper sliding partner and the lower sliding partner is given. The convexity is centrally positioned within the concavity in

In the surfaces of the convexity and concavity each terminate angularly. In a design is depicted as per the invention in which the lateral ends of the convexity and concavity are each rounded off.

In a frontal external view of a two part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention with upper sliding partner and lower sliding partner is depicted on the left. The lower sliding partner may depending on the design comprise two parts as implied by the hatching. Hereby the part hatched providing the convexity is made of a different material than the part white non hatched of the sliding partner directed towards the vertebral body depending on the design. It is preferred that upper sliding partner and lower sliding partner white non hatched part are made of identical materials and the convexity of a different material. It is also intended that the sliding partners and the convexity are made of the same material.

In a sagittal views through a two part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention can be seen. On the left the prosthesis can be seen in a position with not inclined sliding partners whereas in on the right a dorsal and ventral gap closure is depicted respectively. The convexity is depicted hatched.

In schematic frontal views of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention with zero curvation can be seen on the left and right with upper sliding partner lower sliding partner and middle sliding partner . on the left shows a frontal external view of a functional three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention with cylindrically shaped middle sliding partner which is rounded of at the sides. In on the right a median frontal section of three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is depicted. It can be well seen in this section that the height of the middle sliding partner is constant from one side to the other. Because of this no bending sideways of the sliding partners towards each other is possible with a two part and a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention.

In on the left the prosthesis can be seen with no inclined sliding partners whereas in on the right a dorsal and ventral gap closure is depicted respectively. The aperture angle in on the right has accordingly increased correspondingly to the closed gap on the opposing side of the concave convex part of the sliding surfaces . A gap closure between the edges during terminal inclination of the sliding partners arises so that an optimal load transfer is guaranteed.

In and alternative arrangements for the anchoring teeth on the outside of the upper and lower sliding partner for the lumbar spine are depicted. Again the orientation of the sliding partners with respect to the dorsoventral orientation is indicated by the small letters d dorsal v ventral . Dorsally in the middle no anchoring teeth are intended because this results in sparing the vertebral bodies and facilitates the implantation. The arrangement of the anchoring teeth allows for an implantation of the intervertebral disc prosthesis from ventral as well ventrolateral and lateral. For the cervical spine the reversed orientation applies also without middle dorsal anchoring teeth .

The shown designs of a two part as well as a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention in the figures are only exemplary and not definite. Once given the above disclosure many other features modifications and improvements will become apparent to the skilled artisan. Such other features modifications and improvements are therefore considered to be part of this invention.

