---

title: Lateral piezoelectric microelectromechanical system (MEMS) actuation and sensing device
abstract: A microelectromechanical system (MEMS) device comprises a substrate; an anchored end connected to the substrate; a free end comprising an end effector opposite to the anchored end; a spring attached to the end effector; multiple actuation beams; multiple connection beams adapted to connect the multiple actuation beams to one another; and an actuator/sensor comprising a first electrode; a piezoelectric layer over the first electrode; and a set of second electrodes over the piezoelectric layer, wherein the set of second electrodes being defined by a transverse gap therebetween. Each of the multiple actuation beams comprises two sets of the second electrodes. The set of second electrodes comprise an extensional electrode and a contraction electrode. One of the sets of second electrodes is actuated asymmetrically with respect to a first plane resulting in a piezoelectrically induced bending moment arm in a lateral direction that lies in a second plane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07420318&OS=07420318&RS=07420318
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07420318
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060320
---
The embodiments of the invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments of the invention generally relate to microelectronic systems and more particularly to microelectromechanical systems MEMS and MEMS actuation and sensing technology.

MEMS devices are micro dimensioned machines manufactured by typical integrated circuit IC fabrication techniques. The relatively small size of MEMS devices allows for the production of high speed low power and high reliability mechanisms. The fabrication techniques also allow for low cost mass production. MEMS devices typically include both electrical and mechanical components but may also contain optical chemical and biomedical elements.

There are a number of actuation and sensing technologies utilized in MEMS the most common are electrostatic electrothermal magnetic piezoelectric piezoresistive and shape memory alloy technologies. Of these electrostatic MEMS are by far the most common due to their simplicity of fabrication and inherent electromechanical capabilities. However piezoelectric MEMS out perform electrostatic MEMS actuators in out of plane vertical displacements in terms of attainable range power consumption and voltage level. Typical electrostatic out of plane actuators parallel plate electrostatic actuators generally attain vertical displacements on the order of a few microns for several tens of volts while consuming microwatts of power. Piezoelectric out of plane unimorph actuators as depicted in have shown greater than one hundred microns of vertical displacement for five volts and consuming tens of nanowatts of power within an equivalent device area. However currently piezoelectric MEMS are limited to out of plane motion while electrostatic MEMS excels at in plane actuation.

The most basic piezoelectric actuator sensor example is that of the unimorph a composite piezoelectric cantilever beam. illustrate such a cantilever structure having a supporting beam with a bottom electrode piezoelectric layer and top electrode formed successively over the supporting beam and mechanically fixed at an anchored end opposite a free end of the cantilever structure .

In most conventional piezoelectric MEMS actuators such as the cantilever structure illustrated in out of plane bending plane of bending is the x z plane is accomplished by building structures that are asymmetric about the x y midplane of the piezoelectric layer where the x axis corresponds to the longitudinal direction the y axis corresponds to the width direction the z axis corresponds to the thickness height direction and the origin of the coordinate system is located at the center of the clamped end of the cantilever structure . The supporting beam acts as an additional structural layer that offsets by distance the neutral axis N.A. of the supporting beam from the geometric mid plane of the piezoelectric layer to a neutral axis N.A. located beneath the piezoelectric layer . When a voltage is applied between the bottom and top electrodes respectively a piezoelectrically generated strain induced axial force acts on the cantilever structure . The effective line of action of this force lies in the geometric mid plane neutral axis N.A. of the piezoelectric layer . When this axial force acts at some perpendicular distance moment arm from the neutral axis N.A. of the piezoelectric layer a bending moment M is created. This bending moment M causes the cantilever structure to bend in the x z plane. The converse effect is true for the structure to function as a sensor. An applied stress causing bending will cause the piezoelectric material to generate a voltage which may be detected with additional electronics.

With a top electrode that is symmetric about the x z plane the conventional cantilever structure results in a moment arm that lies in the x z plane as shown in . The induced bending thus occurs in an x z plane i.e. out of plane . However such a structure does not facilitate in plane bending. Clearly the ability to have a structure capable of both in plane and out of plane motion would be advantageous.

As described in Recurve Piezoelectric Strain Amplifying Actuator Architecture IEEE ASME Transactions on Mechatronics Vol. 3 No. 4 293 301 December 1998 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference Ervin and Brei have designed macro scale non MEMS piezoelectric actuators that utilize what they term piezoelectric recurve actuators. These structures generate two distinct equal and opposite piezoelectric bending moments within each basic recurve beam each affecting its respective half of the beam that cause the translation of the free end of the actuator. These basic actuators may be connected to provide amplified actuation. However this conventional design generally cannot be implemented at the MEMS scale without modifications to account for the MEMS specific problems of residual stress deformation and thin film piezoelectric electroding requirements.

Mechanical mechanisms require spatial degrees of freedom for motion. There are six primary degrees of freedom including three translational and three rotational along and about each of the three principle dimensions x y and z. The present state of piezoelectric MEMS actuation generally possesses only one of these translational degrees of freedom. Electrostatic MEMS however the most commonly employed MEMS technology possesses all three translational degrees of freedom. As a result there is a much wider array of possible mechanisms and devices that may be constructed with electrostatic MEMS actuators. Electrostatic parallel plate actuators achieve both out of plane and in plane actuation and combdrive actuators are commonly used for large in plane displacements. As such the lack of piezoelectric actuators with additional spatial degrees of freedom has limited the scope of possible piezoelectric MEMS devices to date. Therefore there is a need for a novel piezoelectric MEMS actuator sensor device in which actuated sensed translation specifically occurs in a lateral in plane direction.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment of the invention provides a microelectromechanical system MEMS device comprising a silicon substrate an actuator comprising a first electrode a piezoelectric layer over the first electrode and a set of second electrodes over the piezoelectric layer the set of second electrodes being defined by a transverse gap therebetween. The device further comprises an anchored end connected to the substrate and a free end comprising an end effector opposite to the anchored end. The device further comprises multiple actuation beams and multiple connection beams adapted to connect multiple actuation beams to one another. The connection beams are of the same composition as the actuation beams with the exception of having the top electrode symmetric about the center line of the connection beam. It therefore does not contribute a bending moment.

The connection beams provide both mechanical and electrical connection between the actuation beams and although are piezoelectrically active do not contribute to the deformation of the device. The actuation beams comprise two sets of the second electrodes. Moreover the sets of second electrodes comprise an extensional electrode and a contraction electrode. Only one of the two sets of second electrodes is electrically active when the device is in use. The other set of second electrodes serves to provide a mechanically beneficial symmetry to the system that allows for greater actuation sensitivity. Without this symmetry the generated moment arm would partially reside out of the intended plane of bending x y diminishing the effective in plane actuation. Furthermore the end effector is attached to residual stress deformation mitigation springs which are adapted to prevent out of plane stress deformation of the actuator and to restrict the translational motion of the end effector to be uniaxial within the x y plane.

The embodiments of the invention allow for piezoelectric actuation and sensing that utilizes two additional translational degrees of freedom by permitting motion in the x y plane. This capacity permits the developments of entirely new classes of piezoelectric MEMS devices. The various actuator devices provided by the several embodiments of the invention function such that one of the sets of top electrodes are actuated asymmetrically with respect to the x z plane the origin is located at the center of the beam . For a structure that is symmetric about the midplane of the piezoelectric layer this results in a piezoelectrically induced bending moment arm that lies in the x y plane. The induced bending thus occurs in the x y plane i.e. the lateral direction . The embodiments of the invention effectively rotate the piezoelectric moment arm from the standard case residing in the x z plane into the x y plane thus changing the plane of bending. The x z plane may be thought of as a first plane transverse to the x y plane second plane .

The applications for the embodiments of the invention are such that they could perform any function currently performed by lateral electrostatic MEMS actuators the present standard at significantly smaller sizes power consumption actuation voltages and larger displacement ranges. The devices provided by the embodiments of the invention permit extremely large displacements on the order of hundreds to thousands of microns at very low voltages. Some general applications afforded by the embodiments of the invention include radio frequency RF MEMS circuits optical switching networks safety and arming applications and may be an enabling technology for high performance micro robotics. This class of devices may potentially revolutionize MEMS technology displacing electrostatic MEMS as the dominant and most flexible MEMS technology.

These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

As mentioned there is a need for a novel piezoelectric MEMS actuator sensor device in which induced sensed bending of the MEMS structure occurs in a lateral in plane direction. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments of the invention.

There are multiple geometric configurations possible for the piezoelectric actuator sensor according to the embodiments of the invention. A first embodiment is illustrated as a cantilever beam shown in . illustrates a piezoelectric actuator sensor device according to the first embodiment of the invention. The actuator sensor device comprises a pair of upper electrodes which may comprise platinum or other suitable material disposed over an active piezoelectric layer which is positioned above a lower electrode . The piezoelectric layer preferably comprises sol gel PZT PZT . The configuration of the actuator sensor device enables proper device operation by having the upper electrodes and the lower electrode sandwich the piezoelectric layer and by using a pair of upper electrodes . The absence of the traditional MEMS piezoelectric out of plane piezoelectric actuator s structural layer as depicted in ensures the optimal condition of the piezoelectric moment arm residing in the x y plane according to the embodiments of the invention. The actuator sensor device comprises a free end and an anchored end attached to a substrate .

The configurations of the upper electrodes are dependant upon actuator geometry. In the cantilever beam illustrated in only one upper electrode for example is actuated otherwise if both upper electrodes were actuated the generated bending moments M would cancel and no lateral bending would occur.

The actuation occurs similarly to the process described for the actuator sensor device of thus a voltage applied between the lower electrode and one of the upper electrodes shown here for example upper electrode causes in plane x y plane deflection of the actuator sensor device with the direction of the generated displacement shown as a and b for the respective upper electrodes . Likewise the converse effect is true for the structure to function as a sensor. An applied stress causing bending will cause the piezoelectric material to generate a voltage which may be detected with additional electronics not shown .

Generally the actuator sensor device comprises multiple sets of preferably four parallel actuation beams connected at their extreme ends by perpendicular connection beams . Electrode traces shown in also run along the connection beams to electrically connect all actuation beams shown in . Each set of four parallel actuation beams may then be attached to the next set by additional connection beams at the inner ends of the parallel actuation beams . For the optimal configuration the upper electrodes on each parallel actuation beam are separated in order to achieve maximum lateral deflection. The end effector is located at the connection point of the last set of parallel actuation beams 

In one configuration the upper electrodes on each of the actuation beams may be separated into three sections as depicted in . illustrates the upper electrode configuration for a contraction actuation device while illustrates the upper electrode configuration for an extensional actuation device. The upper electrodes that are diagonal from one another are of the same set to be at the same electrical potential . One set is used for extension of the end effector of away from the anchored end of and the other set of upper electrodes is used for contraction of the end effector toward the anchored end .

The sections of the active set of upper electrodes are continuous so as to provide electrical connectivity. The other set of upper electrodes which are electrically inactive serves to provide a mechanically beneficial symmetry to the system that allows for greater actuation sensitivity. The diagonal nature of the geometry is to provide deflection of one half of the actuation beams that is the opposite of the other half of the actuation beams respectively. This creates an S like deflection profile of a single actuation beam further illustrated in . This configuration reduces the reaction forces and moments at the connection beams and serves to enhance the displacement of the total actuator sensor device .

Generally the actuation of upper electrode results in extension of the actuator sensor device and actuation of upper electrode results in contraction of the actuator sensor device . The actuation occurs similarly to the process described for the actuator sensor device of and the actuator sensor device of thus a voltage applied between the lower electrode and one of the upper electrodes for example upper electrode results in the deflection of the actuator sensor device with the direction of the generated displacement shown as a and b for the respective upper electrodes . Likewise the converse effect is true for the structure to function as a sensor. An applied stress causing bending will cause the piezoelectric material to generate a voltage which may be detected with additional electronics not shown .

Generally the actuator sensor device comprises multiple n sets of parallel actuation beams connected at their extreme ends by perpendicular connection beams . Electrode traces similar to the ones shown in also run along the connection beams to electrically connect all actuation beams . Each set of parallel actuation beams are then attached to the next set by additional connection beams at the inner ends of the parallel actuation beams . For the optimal configuration the upper electrodes on each parallel actuation beam are configured as illustrated in in order to achieve maximum lateral deflection. The end effector is located at the connection point of the last set of parallel actuation beams shown more particularly in .

As illustrated in the upper electrodes are arranged in a similar pattern as in the second and third embodiments such that the upper electrode is configured for either extensional or contraction actuation. The anchored end is attached to a substrate shown in which fixes the actuator sensor device in place and the end effector is positioned opposite the anchored end . The end effector is positioned on the free end of the piezoelectric MEMS actuator sensor device . The displacement of the free end remains in the x y plane plane of the substrate upon actuation i.e. application of voltage . also illustrates the general bidirectional actuation of the upper electrodes where the a movement corresponds with the direction of movement of upper electrode and the b movement corresponds with the direction of movement of upper electrode . Generally the actuation of upper electrode results in extension of the actuator sensor device and actuation of upper electrode results in contraction of the actuator sensor device .

The actuation occurs similarly to the process described for the actuator sensor device of the actuator sensor device of and the actuator sensor device of thus a voltage applied between the lower electrode and one of the upper electrodes shown here for example upper electrode causes in plane x y plane deflection of the actuator sensor device with the direction of the generated displacement shown as a and b for the respective upper electrodes . Likewise the converse effect is true for the structure to function as a sensor. An applied stress causing bending will cause the piezoelectric material to generate a voltage which may be detected with additional electronics not shown .

Generally the actuator sensor device comprises multiple n sets of parallel actuation beams connected at their extreme ends by perpendicular connection beams . Electrode traces similar to the ones shown in also run along the connection beams to electrically connect all actuation beams . Each set of parallel actuation beams may then be attached to the next set by additional connection beams at the inner ends of the parallel actuation beams . For the optimal configuration the upper electrodes on each parallel actuation beam are configured as illustrated in either or in order to achieve maximum lateral deflection. The end effector is located at the connection point of the last set of parallel actuation beams .

The various actuator sensor devices provided by the several embodiments of the invention function such that the upper electrodes are actuated asymmetrically with respect to the beam axis x axis i.e. x z plane . For a structure that is symmetric symmetry of mechanical properties and geometry about the x y midplane neutral axis of the piezoelectric layer this results in a piezoelectrically induced bending moment arm that lies in the x y plane. The induced bending thus occurs in the x y plane i.e. the lateral direction .

The several embodiments of the invention allow for an entire new class of high performance MEMS lateral in the plane of the substrate piezoelectric actuators. The applications for the embodiments of the invention are such that they could perform any function currently performed by lateral electrostatic MEMS actuators the present standard at significantly smaller sizes power consumption actuation voltages and displacement ranges.

The actuator sensor devices provided by the several embodiments of the invention permit extremely large displacements on the order of hundreds to thousands of microns at very low voltages. Some general applications include RF MEMS circuits optical switching networks safety and arming applications and the embodiments of the invention may be an enabling technology for high performance micro robotics. This class of devices may potentially revolutionize MEMS technology displacing electrostatic MEMS as the dominant and most flexible MEMS technology.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

