---

title: Addressable microplasma devices and arrays with buried electrodes in ceramic
abstract: An array of microcavity plasma devices is formed in a ceramic substrate that provides structure for and isolation of an array of microcavities that are defined in the ceramic substrate. The ceramic substrate isolates the microcavities from electrodes disposed within the ceramic substrate. The electrodes are disposed to ignite a discharge in microcavities in the array of microcavities upon application of a time-varying potential between the electrodes. Embodiments of the invention include electrode and microcavity arrangements that permit addressing of individual microcavities or groups of microcavities. The contour of the microcavity wall allows for the electric field within the microcavity to be shaped.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07642720&OS=07642720&RS=07642720
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07642720
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060123
---
This invention was made with government assistance provided by the AFOSR pursuant to contract number F49620 03 1 0391. The government has certain rights in this application.

The present invention relates to microcavity plasma devices also known as microdischarge or microplasma devices that are robust and individually addressable.

Microcavity plasma devices have been developed over the past decade for a wide variety of applications. An exemplary application for an array of microplasmas is in the area of displays. Since single cylindrical microplasma devices for example with a characteristic dimension d as small as 10 m have been demonstrated devices or groups of devices offer a spatial resolution that is desirable for a pixel in a display. In addition the efficiency for generating with a microcavity plasma device the ultraviolet light at the heart of the plasma display panel PDP significantly exceeds that of the discharge structure currently used in plasma televisions.

Early microplasma devices were driven by direct current DC voltages and exhibited short lifetimes for several reasons including sputtering damage to the metal electrodes. Improvements in device design and fabrication have extended lifetimes significantly but minimizing the cost of materials and the manufacture of large arrays continue to be key considerations. Also more recently developed microplasma devices excited by a time varying voltage are preferable when lifetime is of primary concern.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has pioneered and advanced the state of microcavity plasma devices. This work has resulted in practical devices with one or more important features and structures. Most of these devices are able to operate continuously with power loadings of tens of kW cmto beyond 100 kW cm. One such device that has been realized is a multi segment linear array of microplasmas designed for pumping optical amplifiers and lasers. Also the ability to interface a gas or vapor phase plasma with the electron hole plasma in a semiconductor has been demonstrated. Fabrication processes developed largely by the semiconductor and microelectromechanical systems MEMs communities have been adopted for fabricating many of these microcavity plasma devices.

This research by present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in exemplary practical devices. For example semiconductor fabrication processes have been adopted to demonstrate densely packed arrays of microplasma devices exhibiting uniform emission characteristics. Arrays fabricated in silicon comprise as many as 250 000 microplasma devices in an active area of 25 cm each device in the array having an emitting aperture of typically 50 m 50 m. It has been demonstrated that such arrays can be used to excite phosphors in a manner analogous to plasma display panels but with values of the luminous efficacy that are not presently achievable with conventional plasma display panels. Another important device is a microcavity plasma photodetector that exhibits high sensitivity. Phase locking of microplasmas dispersed in an array has also been demonstrated.

The following U.S. patents and patent applications describe microcavity plasma devices resulting from these research efforts. Published Applications 20050148270 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040160162 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040100194 Microdischarge photodetectors 20030132693 Microdischarge devices and arrays having tapered microcavities U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 867 548 Microdischarge devices and arrays 6 828 730 Microdischarge photodetectors 6 815 891 Method and apparatus for exciting a microdischarge 6 695 664 Microdischarge devices and arrays 6 563 257 Multilayer ceramic microdischarge device 6 541 915 High pressure arc lamp assisted start up device and method 6 194 833 Microdischarge lamp and array 6 139 384 Microdischarge lamp formation process and 6 016 027 Microdischarge lamp.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 541 915 discloses arrays of microcavity plasma devices in which the individual devices are mounted in an assembly that is machined from materials including ceramics. Metallic electrodes are exposed to the plasma medium which is generated within a microcavity and between the electrodes. U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 833 also discloses arrays of microcavity plasma devices including arrays for which the substrate is ceramic and a silicon or metal film is formed on it. Electrodes formed at the tops and bottoms of cavities as well as the silicon ceramic or glass microcavities themselves contact the plasma medium. U.S. Published Patent Application 2003 0230983 discloses microcavity plasmas produced in low temperature ceramic structures. The stacked ceramic layers are arranged and micromachined so as to form cavities and intervening conductor layers excite the plasma medium. U.S. Published Patent Application 2002 0036461 discloses hollow cathode discharge devices in which electrodes contact the plasma discharge medium.

The development of microcavity plasma devices continues with an emphasis on the display market. The ultimate utility of microcavity plasma devices in displays will hinge on several critical factors including efficacy discussed earlier lifetime and addressability. Addressability in particular is vital in most display applications. For example for a group of microcavity discharges to comprise a pixel each microplasma device must be individually addressable.

Current flat panel display solutions suffer from a number of drawbacks. Flat panel display technologies that have been widely adopted include liquid crystal displays LCDs and plasma display panels. These technologies have been widely adopted for large screen formats such as televisions. LCDs are also used in computer displays. Compact electronic devices also have a need for high contrast bright high resolution displays. For example personal digital systems PDA and cellular handsets benefit from high contrast high resolution and bright displays.

Efficiency is a concern particularly in applications that utilize portable power sources such as battery powered handheld devices. Since the operational lifetime of a battery powered display is inversely proportional to power consumption improvements in the efficiency of the display impact directly the lifetime of the power source. However efficiency is also an issue with large non portable displays. Conventional plasma display panels for example normally operate at a low efficiency typically converting about 1 of the electrical power delivered to the pixel into visible light. Improvement in this efficiency is a priority with the display industry but increasing the efficiency of a conventional plasma display may require a rise in the already significant sustaining voltage necessary for operation. Current research is focused upon increasing the xenon content in the plasma display panel gas mixture which will likely require an accompanying rise in the sustaining voltage and have an adverse impact on the cost of the driving electronics for the display. Plasma display panels and liquid crystal display panels also tend to be heavy from their use of glass to seal the displays and can be somewhat fragile.

Practical designs that would permit the use of microcavity plasma devices would likely alter the landscape of the flat panel display industry. Compared to standard flat panel display technologies microplasma devices offer the potential of smaller pixel sizes for example. Small pixel sizes correlate directly with higher spatial resolution. In addition tests have shown that microplasma devices convert electrical energy to visible light at a higher efficiency than that available with conventional pixel structures in plasma display panels.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is a microcavity plasma array formed in a ceramic substrate that provides structure for an array of microcavities defined in the ceramic substrate. The ceramic substrate also electrically isolates the microcavities from electrodes buried within the ceramic substrate and physically isolates the microcavities from each other. The electrodes are buried within the ceramic substrate and disposed to ignite a discharge in microcavities in the array of microcavities upon application of a time varying potential between the electrodes. Embodiments of the invention include electrode microcavity arrangements that permit addressing of individual microcavities or groups of microcavities. In preferred embodiments address electrodes straddle or surround the microcavities. In other preferred embodiments columns of microcavities are formed between pairs of substantially coplanar parallel electrodes that are buried in the ceramic.

A preferred embodiment of an array of microcavity plasma devices of the invention is formed in a ceramic substrate that provides structure for microcavities that are defined in the ceramic. The ceramic substrate also electrically isolates the microcavities from electrodes buried within the ceramic substrate. Another function provided by the ceramic is that the profile of the microcavity wall combined with the dielectric constant of the ceramic and the gas pressure in the microcavity provides some control over the shape of the electric field in the microcavity and hence the spatial dependence of emission produced within the microcavity. The electrodes are disposed to ignite a discharge in microcavities in the array of microcavities upon application of a time varying potential between the electrodes. Embodiments of the invention include electrode microcavity arrangements that permit addressing of individual microcavities or groups of microcavities.

Another preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention includes a ceramic substrate having an array of microcavities disposed in the ceramic substrate. A first electrode is buried within the ceramic substrate and disposed proximate to a plurality of microcavities in the array. A second electrode is proximate to at least one of the microcavities to which the first electrode is proximate and is also buried within the ceramic substrate thereby electrically insulating the electrode from both the microcavity and the other electrode. The first and second electrodes are arranged to ignite a discharge in at least one microcavity upon application of a time varying potential between the first electrode and the second electrode.

In preferred embodiments the electrodes lie in the same or substantially the same plane and are parallel to one another. Devices of the invention are preferably made using low temperature co fired ceramic LTCC a material available in thin sheets which can be stacked to realize the desired structure. The ceramic packaging of preferred embodiment devices is readily integrated with electronic devices such as capacitors resistors and active devices.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention.

Referring now to the drawings and particularly which is a partially transparent schematic view of a portion of a preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array closely spaced microcavities are formed in a ceramic substrate . Buried within the ceramic substrate is a pair of electrodes and . The microcavities can be cylindrical in cross section for example with diameters at least as small as 20 m but typically 500 m or less. It is within each microcavity that a plasma discharge will be formed. The electrodes are spaced apart a distance from the microcavities thereby isolating the electrodes from the discharge medium plasma contained in the microcavities . This arrangement permits the application of a time varying AC RF bipolar or pulsed DC etc. potential between the electrodes to excite the gaseous or vapor medium to create a microplasma in each microcavity.

The ceramic material is preferably a low temperature co fired ceramic LTCC which provides protection of the electrodes from the microplasma. This avoids sputtering of the electrodes which limits the lifetime of the device. An advantage of this design is that the technology for processing LTCC is advanced. The structure may be replicated to yield a high density of microcavities in large arrays. While the microcavities are shown as being cylindrical other cross sections such as rectangular trenches are also acceptable. Structures constructed from low temperature co fired ceramics may be built up from thin layers one layer at a time and the entire process may be automated. These processes including screen printing of the electrodes are widely used in the automotive electronics and cell phone industries for example. The exemplary embodiment microcavity plasma device array of can produce a display in which columns of microcavities are excited simultaneously in a robust monolithic structure.

Alternatively addressing a single microcavity can be accomplished. illustrates a preferred embodiment microcavity plasma array that offers addressability of individual microcavities which may constitute pixels for example. Individual addressability is important in a variety of applications and particularly in display applications and several biomedical diagnostics. The device is illustrated in as being formed from multiple layers of LTCC material. The layers are essentially identical and define with the layer a plurality of aligned microcavities . The layer is thin and serves to provide a base for the formation of first electrodes and second electrodes which run transversely in parallel planes.

The first electrodes are generally parallel to each other and are coplanar or substantially coplanar as are the second electrodes . In the illustrated embodiment a column of microcavities is disposed between each adjacent pair of first electrodes . Although a column of microcavities can be situated between every adjacent pair of first electrodes this is not necessary. Each microcavity is also bounded by an adjacent pair of second electrodes . That is if one looks along the axis of any microcavity the microcavity will be seen to lie between an adjacent pair of first electrodes and an adjacent pair of second electrodes . The axis of the microcavity is nominally perpendicular to planes defined by the first electrodes and the second electrodes .

Together the first electrodes form a first electrode array. Together the second electrodes form a second electrode array. In one embodiment each microcavity will intersect the planes defined by the first electrode array and the second electrode array. In another embodiment this intersection is not necessary. Individual microcavities in the array are addressed by applying a time varying voltage of the proper magnitude to a specific pair of adjacent first electrodes and to a specific pair of adjacent second electrodes . One pair of electrodes serves as the address electrodes and one pair as the sustain electrodes. The magnitude of the voltage applied to each pair will normally not be equal and depends on the gas in the microcavity its pressure and the dimensions of the microcavity and electrode arrays.

Artisans will also appreciate that groups of microcavities could also be addressed. Group excitation can be realized by the excitation of more than one adjacent electrode simultaneously as will be appreciated by artisans. Many other addressing schemes will be apparent to artisans as well as the example embodiments of the invention enable a wide variety of addressing schemes.

Openings are located at opposing ends of ceramic sheets to accommodate electrical connections to the electrodes in electrode array and electrode array . Notice that because the first electrodes are perpendicular to the second electrodes the openings on the upper layer are at different ends of layer than are the openings on the lower layer or sheet . Arrays of first electrodes and second electrodes can be fabricated by a variety of processes. One low cost method is screen printing from a Pt or Ag paste but other conducting materials are also acceptable. Similarly electrical connections to arrays of first electrodes and second electrodes can be fabricated by a number of well known methods including the use of metal pastes.

To fabricate the device of sheets and are cut to size the hole patterns microcavities and openings are produced in sheets and and the electrode arrays and are formed on ceramic sheet . After sheets and are aligned they are pressed together while being heated. This process produces a monolithic ceramic structure in which the first electrodes and second electrodes are buried in ceramic and a pair of adjacent electrodes straddles each column of microcavities . Advantages of fabricating arrays in LTCC include the availability of automated processing and the stability of this material at high temperature and in the presence of chemically aggressive environments.

Microcavity plasma arrays of the invention can be fabricated with such a process in a wide variety of sizes geometric arrangements and microcavity addressing schemes as artisans will appreciate. For exemplary purposes only an array consistent with has a length and width X of approximately 50 mm. A pitch A between microcavities is 4 mm. A distance B between the array of microcavities and the edge of the substrate is 11 mm. A microcavity diameter C is 0.115 mm 115 m . A distance F between the edge of the electrodes and of the substrate is 10 mm. A width and spacing G between electrodes is 2 mm. The thickness of layers is 0.5 mm and a thickness I of the layer is 0.2 mm. A thickness of the electrodes and is approximately 0.2 mm. Exemplary electrodes are gold or silver electrodes. The total thickness of the device after fabrication is for example approximately 1.2 to 1.5 mm. Again the dimensions are for an example embodiment only. Artisans will recognize that larger and smaller arrays may be made and the microcavity diameter and pitch varied over a wide range. Artisans will also recognize that large scale arrays may be formed from a replication of small arrays.

As a further example provides details of an array of microplasma devices that has been fabricated and tested. The dimensions are strictly exemplary and are indicated to provide the details of the arrays that were fabricated and tested. The example array shown in is consistent with the embodiment. The reference numbers used in identify analogous features of the exemplary embodiment of . In the arrays that were fabricated the microcavities were cylindrical with diameters of either 127 m or 180 m as indicated. The buried electrodes were substantially coplanar and the separation between the inner edges of the electrodes was 200 m. The electrodes in the experimental devices terminated in exposed contacts .

Experiments have been conducted to verify operational characteristics of arrays of the invention. shows V I characteristics for arrays having the structure shown in . The exemplary device was an array consisting of a single column of 72 microcavities. Each microcavity had a diameter of 127 m. The data shown in were obtained for neon gas at pressures from 400 Torr to 700 Torr when the array was excited with a bipolar pulsed DC waveform having a frequency of 20 kHz. The electrical characteristics measured and shown in have a positive slope demonstrating that the discharges operate in the abnormal glow mode. It is therefore not necessary to supply external ballast for the array.

Another advantage of this invention is that the electric field within the microcavity can be shaped. Specifically the contour of the ceramic at the microcavity wall in combination with the gas pressure and the identity of the gas or vapor itself determine to a limited extent the spatial variation of the electric field strength in the microcavity.

Prototype devices having the structure of have been constructed and operated. Specifically two sets of arrays were fabricated. The microcavities in both arrays were cylindrical with diameters of 127 m or 180 m. Images of the microplasmas generated in the microcavities were recorded with a CCD camera and an optical telescope. It is apparent from these images microphotographs that the emission and associated electric field within the microcavity is concentrated into an angular region determined by several factors one of which is the radius of curvature of the microcavity wall. Stated another way the electric field can be concentrated or focused because of the curvature of the ceramic plasma interface. Embodiments of the invention provide a property that differs considerably from previous microcavity plasma devices in which excitation electrode pairs lie in two different planes or have a vertical separation therebetween and the intent generally has been to produce a microplasma that is azimuthally uniform. Applications of this property of the present invention are extensive including the generation of particular atomic or molecular species that require large electric field strengths to be produced. Embodiments of the invention have substantially coplanar electrode pairs or electrode pairs that are vertically aligned with respect to the axis of the microcavity. This permits the concentration of the electric field. Also the profile of the ceramic plasma interface can be modified from the circular shape of A and B. Altering the shape of the ceramic plasma interface allows for other emission patterns to be produced.

Additional embodiments of the invention are shown schematically in . In like reference numbers from will be used to indicate similar parts. is a schematic diagram of a top view applicable to of the embodiment. The structure shown in includes substantially coplanar electrodes as in A and B. presents an approach for applying power to the electrodes . Specifically every other electrode can be grounded. illustrates an alternative embodiment in which two sets of substantially coplanar electrodes and are provided between each microcavity in a linear array. The first electrodes e.g. and can serve to sustain the microcavities whereas the second electrodes e.g. and can be used to address specific microcavities .

Another embodiment of the invention is shown in . A single column of microcavities is shown and if desired the column can be replicated as in . In first and second electrodes are shaped so that the thickness of the ceramic between each of the electrodes and the nearest edge of a microcavity is constant. In a preferred embodiment consistent with the first and second electrodes are substantially coplanar.

Another embodiment of the invention is illustrated by the top view of a linear array of microcavity plasma devices shown in . In this embodiment the main electrodes are again substantially coplanar but first and second electrodes include segments that extend between microcavities in the column. These electrode segments are effective in reducing the ignition voltage for the array. Another embodiment in is similar to the embodiment but includes microcavities having a substantially rectangular cross section. shows another embodiment similar to the embodiments of except that a third set of electrodes replace the electrode segments and . The third electrodes are not electrically connected to either of the first or second substantially coplanar electrodes . These ignition electrodes can be buried in the ceramic and electrically isolated from electrodes and and driven by a separate voltage source.

Microcavities in embodiments of the invention can also have a cross section that varies as a function of depth in the ceramic. B and C show embodiments of the invention including tapered microcavities having a truncated conical shape. In the embodiment of first and second buried electrodes are substantially coplanar as for example in the embodiment. With the variable cross section the characteristics of the discharge are strongly dependent upon the location of the electrodes. The value of K determines the thickness of the ceramic between the inside edge of each electrode and the microcavity wall. Nominal values of the ceramic thickness are between 1 m and 500 m. In the embodiment of first and second electrodes are oriented parallel to the microcavity wall. Such an electrode microcavity geometry can be fabricated in several ways one of which is to deposit metal on the inside of a conical cavity and subsequently overcoat the metal with a thin ceramic layer. shows an embodiment of the invention in which the buried electrodes have at least two sections one of which lies parallel to the microcavity .

Another embodiment of the invention in which the microplasma devices are individually addressable in a manner similar to the embodiment shown in . In the embodiment of address electrodes surround the microcavities . A thin ceramic ring isolates the address electrode from the edge of the microcavities . The ring separates the electrode from the microcavities by a distance T. Sustain electrodes are substantially coplanar and disposed between microcavities at a distance S from the electrode . Both the address electrode and sustain electrodes are buried in the ceramic and if desired the structure of can be driven by the same method and electronics used in current PDPs.

Artisans will recognize many applications for microcavity plasma arrays of the invention. The low power demands and high efficiencies of the microplasmas make arrays particularly suitable for display applications. Single discharges or groups of discharges may be combined to form pixels in a display. The discharges may excite phosphors to produce color displays. Biomedical diagnostics such as the photoexcitation of a dye labeled biomolecule is another application ideally suited for these arrays. The ceramic arrays also provide the opportunity to integrate microcavity plasma arrays of the invention with electronic components capacitors resistors inductors etc. .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

