---

title: Peer-to-peer contact exchange
abstract: A system may publish authenticated contact information in a publicly available index store, retrieve the contact information, and validate it. The claimed method and system may provide a client-based, server optional approach to publishing. The publicly available index store may be a distributed hash table used in a peer-to-peer network. The system may be used in other secure directory service applications where a server may not be available or where server trust may be minimal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086842&OS=08086842&RS=08086842
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08086842
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060421
---
Directory services may typically be provided using a network server. In order to utilize the directory services a user may be required to connect to the server and have a user account in order to access the directory service. Additionally the user may have to trust the server to provide data integrity and data authentication. If the directory service is intended for a smaller group of connected entities for example an ad hoc network then creating and setting up a directory server for that ad hoc network may be inefficient. For example ad hoc networks may typically be transient in nature and the cost of setting up a dedicated server for short durations and for a small number of users may be too costly due to administrator time equipment resource capacity some server must be reallocated or added and user time user may be involved in account creation and setup . Moreover while server based systems may be common new serverless systems such as peer to peer networks may provide greater flexibility in creating ad hoc networks because they may not require a dedicated server to facilitate communications. However to enable secure communications over these ad hoc networks using existing encryption processes a directory service may be required to facilitate public key exchange that does not rely on a server based model.

A system may publish authenticated contact information in a publicly available index store. The system may also provide a method of retrieving the contact information and validating it. The claimed method and system may be client based with a server being optional. The publicly available index store may be a distributed hash table used in a peer to peer network. The system may be used in other secure directory service applications where a server may not be available or where server trust may be minimal.

In one embodiment the system may be used as a general message publishing system. In another embodiment the system may be used to provide selective publication in which a posted record may only be retrieved and read by an intended recipient.

Although the following text sets forth a detailed description of numerous different embodiments it should be understood that the legal scope of the description is defined by the words of the claims set forth at the end of this patent. The detailed description is to be construed as exemplary only and does not describe every possible embodiment since describing every possible embodiment would be impractical if not impossible. Numerous alternative embodiments could be implemented using either current technology or technology developed after the filing date of this patent which would still fall within the scope of the claims.

It should also be understood that unless a term is expressly defined in this patent using the sentence As used herein the term is hereby defined to mean . . . or a similar sentence there is no intent to limit the meaning of that term either expressly or by implication beyond its plain or ordinary meaning and such term should not be interpreted to be limited in scope based on any statement made in any section of this patent other than the language of the claims . To the extent that any term recited in the claims at the end of this patent is referred to in this patent in a manner consistent with a single meaning that is done for sake of clarity only so as to not confuse the reader and it is not intended that such claim term be limited by implication or otherwise to that single meaning. Finally unless a claim element is defined by reciting the word means and a function without the recital of any structure it is not intended that the scope of any claim element be interpreted based on the application of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph.

The blocks of the claimed method and apparatus are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the methods or apparatus of the claims include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The blocks of the claimed method and apparatus may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The methods and apparatus may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the blocks of the claimed method and apparatus includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that may be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components may either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not illustrated may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like.

These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections illustrated are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Peer to peer P2P systems employ a network of nodes that communicate with each other in a decentralized manner e.g. without the aid of a central server. Each node e.g. an application or a device in the peer to peer network may communicate with another node on the network through a direct connection or each node may communicate indirectly using one or more intermediate nodes to relay communications to an intended node.

Connection security may be based on a symmetric key encryption process as may be commonly known in the art. In order to implement this encryption security however peer entities may need to first exchange certificates and or public keys which enable a secure connection to be initially established. In some existing systems such as that illustrated in this exchange may be facilitated using a central directory server where users may post their certificates and or public keys on the directory server . A directory service may be a database table containing records of certificates and or public keys indexed under a username or other identifier used as a key . A user capable of connecting to the directory server and allowed access to the directory service may lookup a target user using the target user s identifier and obtain the target user s corresponding public key. This approach may require connectivity to the server explicit signup with the directory server and trust in the directory server . Furthermore someone must incur the cost of hosting such as server. When a user is connecting from a remote location Internet connectivity may additionally be required. The server signup process may involve user accounts that are used to promote trust in the directory server . For example if any user could access the server the server may be viewed as more susceptible to compromise especially if security information is being posted and exchanged such as public keys. Further creating a directory server for an ad hoc temporary network may be impractical because of the transient nature of these networks and the difficulty in setting up a directory server. A possible workaround for an ad hoc peer to peer network may be to exchange public keys via email or via an off network process such as physically sending or mailing a diskette containing a certificate public key to a target member. This may enable the peer entities to establish server independent secure links. However this may be cumbersome and error prone.

An embodiment of the claimed server independent indexing process may use a serverless index store such as a distributed hash table DHT illustrated in . This distributed hash table may be maintained over a group of peer entities that form a peer to peer network . The entries in a distributed hash table may be logically divided or grouped using for example a hash function. The hash function may clump records together in some organized manner thereby making retrieval more efficient. A DHT may have two primary properties 1 distribution of a table e.g. table across a plurality of nodes e.g. nodes and 2 a routing mechanism not shown that provides a method for publishing and retrieving records. The routing mechanism and distribution may be managed by an overlay protocol such as Chord PNRP Pastry Tapestry etc. While a DHT may be used to provide an index store in accordance with an embodiment of the claims it is emphasized that any index store which may be easily accessed by a group of peer entities may be used including server based indices. In the case of a server based indices the claimed system may reduce the level of trust required from the server alone because the claimed system may provide the necessary level of security for an unsecured index store.

An embodiment of the claimed server independent indexing process may use a particular record format as illustrated in . illustrates that a publisher may post to the index store a record containing contact information the publisher s public key and a signature of the contact information using the publisher s private key. Alternatively the signature may be for a combination of the contact information and public key. This record may be indexed by a record key . In one embodiment the key of the record may be a cryptographically unique identifier CUI . A CUI may have two primary properties. First the CUI may be statistically unique and second the CUI may correspond to a particular user public key such as the publisher public key . Similar to common database indexing schemes a record key may need to be unique to prevent duplicate entity entries. Accordingly a CUI may be one that is derived such that there is a high probability that it is unique for a particular situation or application. For example in a peer group of only a few members the CUI may be statistically unique if the probability that a cryptographically unique identifier may be derived from the same member public key is unlikely for the group size.

The CUI may be derived from a public key using an algorithm such as a hash or encryption algorithm. The CUI may be verified to correspond or match with its public key using the algorithm. In one embodiment the CUI may be used to represent a longer user identifier such as a public key in a shorter more user manageable form such as the peer names used in a P2P system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 882 079 entitled Callsigns. 

The record of may be used to publish contact information to an index store such as the DHT of . The CUI key may be used to locate each record and retrieve the contact information and public key . In this embodiment the published information may be public i.e. the published information may not be encrypted except for the signatures. However other embodiments described below may encrypt portions of the published information. Also while this embodiment illustrates using a record to facilitate public key exchange it is emphasized that the system may be used in any application in which a unique message publication may be used. For example instead of contact information any message may be posted against a user CUI .

The user may then query the index store to retrieve a record based on the CTJI . Once the CUI is retrieved the CUI may be verified using the public key contained in the record to ensure that they correspond to each other . This process block may be used to verify that the record corresponds to the CUI. The CUI may be made statistically unique to the public key in any number of ways. In one embodiment the peer communication system may pre establish a common mapping process for example using a recognized hash function. This initial verification process helps to ensure that the record may indeed correspond to the given CUI.

If the CUI maps properly then the signature of the record may then be used to determine whether the signature is signed by a corresponding private key of the publisher . This may authenticate the message by providing evidence that the message originated from the publisher as it may be assumed that the publisher owns the private key corresponding to the public key used for the encryption.

If the record message is properly signed a message format and or syntax check may then be performed on the contact information of the record. This may be used for example to ensure that the message was not hacked to match the signature. While providing a hacked message to match an encrypted signature may be statistically difficult it may not be impossible. Hacking however may result in a message that does not conform to intended or expected format. Thus a first check of the message may be made to determine whether the message format complies with an expected format. For example where contact information is communicated the contact information may require a ten character format. If the record format does not provide this ten character format then someone or something may have tampered with the message .

Alternatively or in addition the semantics of the message may be checked. For example the contact information may be limited to a list of options and specific relations between those options. Therefore if the format requires two entries and the first entry is related to the second entry semantics and they do not match this expected format then someone or something may have tampered with the message .

If all of the verifications processes have been completed successfully then the record may be authentic and subsequently used for example the public key may be used to establish communication links. If any of the verification steps fails then someone or something may have been tampered with the message . In the case of a public key exchange system a connection may be refused.

In another embodiment illustrated in a duration parameter may be included with the record . This duration parameter may correspond to a level of encryption used in the authentication process described. For example the encryption level may correspond to the strength of the encryption used to generate the public private key pairs used in the claimed system. If the encryption strength is high then the duration may be long and vice versa. The duration parameter may indicate a duration of validity for the record. Thus the duration parameter may be used in the retrieval process as illustrated in . illustrates the same process of with the addition of block where the duration indicated by the duration parameter is checked to determine whether the duration has expired. If the duration parameter is expired then the record may be compromised . Otherwise the record may be valid .

In another enhancement of the above embodiment the key may be a group public key which is owned by a group of peers. In this embodiment any member of the group may lookup a record under the group public key and perform the authentication process. The group of users may have access to the record and may be specifically targeted for receipt of a posted message.

It should be emphasized that while the specific embodiments described above may be associated with a public key exchange directory the contact information may represent other data. For example instead of contact information the record may be a generic message posting. Thus the claimed system may be used as a general publication system over any publicly accessible index store. The claimed system may also be used to provide directory services other than public key lookup. The claimed system enables existing distributed index stores such as distributed hash tables to function as secured directory services work without relying on a server.

Additionally the claimed system may be used on existing server based directories where the server security may be minimal thereby requiring the authentication process provided by the claimed system. In ad hoc systems such as peer groups and peer to peer networks a serverless process of public key publication and retrieval may make the creation of such networks more efficient by reducing the need for a hosted dedicated server to provide the directory service. The claimed method and system may also minimize user involvement because the public private key encryption process may eliminate the need for a user to explicitly sign on to a server.

