---

title: System and method for listing data acquisition
abstract: A method and system of data acquisition by a listing service provider is disclosed. A network address is received from a client computer that is operated by a lister. The network address can be indicative of a location of listing data on a computer network. The listing data comprises at least one information item provided by the lister. The network address received from the lister is accessed by opening a computer network connection to retrieve the listing data. The lister makes available the listing data for retrieval so that the listing data can be posted in a search bank hosted by the listing service provider. The listing data is retrieved from the network address using the computer network connection by copying the listing data onto a listing data database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08135704&OS=08135704&RS=08135704
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08135704
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060311
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 280 filed Mar. 11 2005. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 174 393 filed on Jun. 30 2005 entitled SAMFML. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 173 837 filed on Jun. 30 2005 entitled SAMFIJS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 173 656 filed on Jun. 30 2005 entitled SSAMFMJL. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 173 470 filed on Jun. 30 2005 entitled JCSAM. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 372 528 entitled SAMFLA filed on Mar. 11 2006. The disclosures of all referenced applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to listing services. In particular it relates to systems and methods of data acquisition for listing service providers.

In the current generation of listing services listing service providers use World Wide Web web crawlers to visit and pick up billions of listings from every accessible source on the Internet. Typically upon the listing service provider acquiring the listings through web crawling the listings are processed indexed into search banks and published on an Internet website. Listing service providers are for example auction websites listing auctioned items job databanks listing employment opportunities and openings real estate listing companies among others. End users seeking specific items are provided with an easy web search capability that allows them to extract relevant information that addresses their needs.

In addition listers possess listing information to be conveyed to end users. Thus for example a lister can be any entity that sells or leases items or provides services. Examples of listers include vehicle manufacturers and resellers home owners employers etc.

Listing service providers collect data from multiple listers classify the collected data and list the data in a searchable form so as to provide an easy to use interface for users to find the items matching the criteria of the user. Listing service providers rely heavily on the web crawlers to gather information. Listers publish listings on Internet sites utilizing different methodologies standards and data formats. As such listing information obtained by web crawlers is generally unstructured and in a non standardized format. Therefore undirected web crawling is not completely reliable because the methodology results in poor quality listings. Further filtrations systems utilized to eliminate irrelevant listings obtained through undirected web crawling require computing power that can be more productively used in other processes.

In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to a method of data acquisition by a listing service provider. As an example a network address is received from a client computer that is operated by a lister. The network address can be a uniform resource locator. The network address can be indicative of a location of listing data on a computer network. The listing data comprises at least one information item provided by the lister. The network address received from the lister is accessed by opening a computer network connection to retrieve the listing data. The lister makes available the listing data for retrieval so that the listing data can be posted in a search bank hosted by the listing service provider. The listing data is retrieved from the network address using the computer network connection by copying the listing data onto a listing data database.

In a further exemplary aspect of the method the listing data comprises job listing or real estate listings. In addition the listing data in the listing data database can be analyzed for conformance to predetermined quality criteria. The listing data can also be categorized into one or more predetermined categories and further stored in the search bank hosted by the listing service provider. Moreover selected categorized job information data can be transferred from the search bank through a job search client server to a job searcher in response to a query by the job searcher. The listing data can be posted on an Internet website.

In another aspect of the method an Internet website can be provided wherein a lister can administrate the listing data provided to the listing service provider. In yet another aspect of the method the retrieved listing data is in an information resource definition language which is unique to the listing service provider. The information resource definition language can be based on extensible markup language.

In another aspect of the method the information resource definition language is an extension of extensible markup language. For example the information resource definition language can comprise a job element. In addition the job element can comprise an employer company attribute and a job title attribute.

In another example the information resource definition language can comprise a real estate element. In addition the real estate element can comprise a location attribute and a price attribute.

In one embodiment the network address can be provided by entering a uniform resource locator in an Internet web form hosted by the listing service provider. In another embodiment the network address can be provided by transmitting the uniform resource locator as part of a hypertext source code tag.

In another aspect an embodiment of the disclosure is a system for data acquisition by a listing service provider comprising an address receiving module and a web crawling module. The address receiving module receives a network address from a client computer that is operated by a lister. The network address is indicative of a location of listing data on a computer network. The listing data comprises at least one information item provided by the lister. The web crawling module accesses the network address received from the lister. The network address is accessed by opening a computer network connection to retrieve the listing data. The lister makes available the listing data for retrieval so that the listing data can be posted in a search bank hosted by the listing service provider. The web crawling module is configured to retrieve the listing data from the network address using the computer network connection by copying the listing data onto a listing data database.

In yet another aspect a computer readable medium encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process for data acquisition by a listing service provider. The computer process may comprise multiple steps. A network address is received from a client computer that is operated by a lister. The network address can be indicative of a location of listing data on a computer network. The listing data comprises at least one information item provided by the lister. The network address received from the lister is accessed by opening a computer network connection to retrieve the listing data. The lister makes available the listing data for retrieval so that the listing data can be posted in a search bank hosted by the listing service provider. The listing data is retrieved from the network address using the computer network connection by copying the listing data onto a listing data database.

A system and method of listing data collection and delivery is disclosed. Unlike traditional systems and methods of data acquisition which rely on web crawling of non standardized listing data the system and method provided herein allows listers and listing service providers to communicate via a standard language. Thus accurate and updated listing data can be provided to listing service providers. In addition listers also benefit from better categorized listing data and thereby have higher chances that their listings will be easily accessed by users.

A listing service provider can utilize a directed web crawler to acquire data more accurately and efficiently. Furthermore an Information Resource Definition IRD language can be utilized as a means for communication between a lister and the listing service provider.

In one embodiment a lister can place listing data on a secure site and give to a listing service provider an indication of the location of the listing data. The listing service provider can then utilize a directed web crawler to collect the listing data at the specified location. In addition the listing service provider can interpret the data based on standardized definitions. Therefore a pull methodology may be used to acquire data at the listing manager. In this methodology the lister provides to the listing service provider two pieces of information to find the data the location of the data and the format of the data. Once the listing service provider receives this information a directed web crawler can pull or collect the information from the specified location.

In another embodiment listers are also provided with the capability to submit listing data to a listing service provider. Thus a push methodology may be used to acquire data at the listing manager. Listers can utilize the Information Resource Definition IRD rules and deliver or push listing data to the listing service provider. The data delivered to the listing service provider can be formatted to comply with the IRD rules such that the listing service provider can interpret the data submitted.

In one embodiment the lister s computer can include a listings database that stores listing data ready for publication. For example an employer having job openings in its engineering division can store job listings in the listings database that are later transmitted to a listing service provider . The lister s computer can further include a feed module that retrieves listing data from the listings database . In one embodiment the feed module delivers the retrieved listing data to the listing manager . In another embodiment the feed module places the retrieved listing data in a network accessible site for the listing manager to collect through the Internet .

The listing manager can be a computing module which resides in a computer infrastructure of a listing service provider . Alternatively the listing manager can be a computer server that resides in a computer infrastructure of a listing service provider . For example a job listing service provider can utilize a computer infrastructure to post all available job listings on the Internet . The listing manager can reside in a computer server connected to the Internet . The listing data can be acquired by either requesting the data from the feed module scraping the data published on the Internet by the feed module or by simply receiving the listing data submitted by the feed module .

In addition once the listing information is acquired from the lister s computer the listing manager can provide the listing information to a listing server which in turn publishes or otherwise makes available the listing information on the Internet . The listing server can be for example a web server an ftp server or any other server configured to post information on the Internet for user viewing and searching.

Once published and listed the listing data is available for users to view and search the listing data at a user computing device . The user computing device can be any personal computer a handheld device etc. that can access the Internet. Upon sending a request the user computing device receives listing information posted by the listing server . In one embodiment the user computing device can receive the listing data either on a request to the listing server wherein the user computing device includes a web browser and requests listing data from the listing server . In another embodiment the user computing device receives the listing data based on a transmission by the listing server wherein the transmission is initiated by the listing server . In one example the user computing device receives a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed. In another example the user computing device receives a podcast.

As previously mentioned listers are provided the opportunity to render accurate listing data to a listing service provider by using a common standardized format. The lister computer allows a lister to transmit listing data to a listing service by pushing the relevant listing data to the listing manager through the Internet . In addition the lister computer allows a lister to transmit the location of the listing data to a listing service so that the listing service can pull the relevant listing data and process the listing data in the listing manager .

Listers can transmit listing data to a listing service provider at any time by directly feeding the listing data. Therefore the listing service provider does not have to web crawl the Internet to acquire such listing information. In addition the listing data that is provided to the lister can be in a standard format.

The lister can push the data to the listing service provider through interfaces provided by the listing service provider . In one example the listing service provider makes available a website that has data fields for entering listing data. In another example the listing service provider makes available a file upload site in which a lister can provide the name of a file in a pre specified format for uploading. In yet another example the listing service provider provides application programming interface APIs functions for the lister to develop a computer application for distributing the data to the listing service provider .

In one embodiment the web form provided by the feed web server is a form having one or more fields where data can be entered. The web browser can display the forms hosted by the feed web server and allow the user to enter listing data in the forms.

In another embodiment the web interface provided by the feed web server allows a lister to designate a file containing listing data for uploading. Thus the lister at the lister s computer can provide a file path indicative of the location of the file to be uploaded. Files of various formats can be uploaded and later parsed by the file interpretation module . In one example the file is an Excel spreadsheet file. In another example the file is an Extensible Markup Language XML file. In yet another example the file is a Human Resources Extensible Markup Language XML file. In another example the file is a Resource Description Framework RDF file.

Once the file has been interpreted by the file interpretation module the feed web server can transmit the listing data to the listing manager for processing categorization sanitation of data data format check regular expression check etc. In addition a fraud pre filtration process can be performed in order to verify that the data provided is current relevant and non fraudulent. Categories for fraud filtration of data may include offensive listings illegal listings irrelevant listings etc. Techniques utilized in automatic categorization of listing data including job listings are described in detail in the U.S. patent application Ser. No 10 920 588 filed August 2004 and entitled Automatic Product Categorization assigned to the assigned of this disclosure.

Upon processing the listing data the listing manager can further relay the listing data to the listing server for posting the listings on a website on the Internet . Thereafter a user searching for listed items of interest e.g. a job seeker a homebuyer etc can access through the user computing device the listing data via the listing service provider .

In one embodiment a lister may be a frequent user. The lister can be provided with a preconfigured or user defined a username for identification. The lister can upload a file under the username. The feed web server can parse the uploaded file and further associate the listings in the file to the lister. The lister can then be provided with the ability to administrate the submitted data listings. In another embodiment a lister as a first time user is not required to have a username to upload a listing data file.

The file that is uploaded by the lister can be formatted in a standard format which is also known to the file interpretation module . The file interpretation module can include rules and definitions for an IRD file. In one example the information resource definition can be established as shown in Table A. Table A below shows exemplary elements and corresponding attributes of an IRD file.

Table A shows an IRD syntax for providing job listings. In one example the IRD syntax properties for a job listing can include company title description category experience status level salary etc. In addition each property may include further attributes. Thus for example a lister that wants to post a job listing may provide the listing data in IRD format. A source code example of the contents of an IRD file that can be uploaded is as follows 

A lister can utilize the APIs to include interfacing commands in a lister application in order to interface automatically and directly with the web service server . As such the lister can program existing applications or develop a new application that can retrieve listing data from a local listing database and transmit such listing data to the web service server . For example a lister can develop the computer application to periodically retrieve listing data from the listing database and transmit the data to the web service server . In another example the lister can simply incorporate the APIs provided by the listing service provider into existing applications and make calls to the provided APIs in order to submit the data to the listing service provider . In yet another example the lister can develop an application for data entry and submission to the web service server .

In another embodiment the application development kit provides APIs that encode data in an IRD format for transmission to the web service server . As such the web service server can include or be interfaced with a file interpretation module as illustrated in . The lister application can be implemented to package listing data in IRD format for transmission to the web service server . The implementation of the lister application can include API calls for encoding the data to IRD format and for transmitting the listing data directly to the file interpretation module .

The file interpretation module can reside at the web service server or any other server shared by other processes in the computer configuration of the listing service provider . After the web service module parses and interprets the listing data received the web service module transmits the data to the listing manger for further processing categorization etc. Here again the listing data is then published on a web site by the listing server and then later viewed at a user computing device .

A data acquisition system can be used by a listing service provider in order to enhance the data acquisition model such that the data is gathered from specific Internet locations. In other words listers can provide the location of the data to the listing service provider which in turn collects or pulls the data from the network location provided by the lister. Once the listing service provider is provided with information regarding the location of the listing data the listing service provider can initiate a directed web crawler to collect the data at the specific network location provided by the lister.

A directed web crawler can be a web crawler having a predetermined location on the Internet. Unlike traditional web crawlers which crawl travel around the Internet without a specific destination a directed web crawler can collect the information from a specific location with the assurance that useful and meaningful data can be found at each visited web site.

Furthermore the location feeding module can permit a lister to provide additional information to the location receipt module . For instance the location feeding module can permit the lister to schedule data collection times. In another example the lister can set the frequency of data collections. Furthermore the location feeding module can be configured such that higher data collection frequency would entail a charge to the lister on a per listing basis. Once the location of the listing data is received at the location receipt module the web crawler module can be activated to web crawl and collect the data from the indicated location. The crawling process can be activated periodically e.g. every fifteen minutes or with a frequency indicated by the user.

In addition the lister s computer can include a listings database that stores the listing data that the lister wishes to post to the Internet. In one embodiment the listing database is a single file. In another embodiment the listing database is a collection of files. The listings database can be partially accessible via the network location supplied to the location receipt module . Alternatively the listings database can be fully accessible. Furthermore the location of the listings database can be in one or distributed across multiple sites or locations.

The listings database may comprise a text file which can be collected by the web crawler module . The text file can include the listing data in a data format that is recognized by the file interpretation module . In addition the text file can include listing data in a data format that is specific to the listing data collection server such that only the file interpretation module can fully interpret the data. As such the file presented can be in an Excel HR XML RDF or other format. In addition the file presented can also be in IRD format as discussed above.

Once the file is collected the file interpretation module interprets the data based on the IRD definitions and provides the data to the listing manager . As stated above the listing manger can provide data cleansing removal of duplicate entries quality checking categorization etc.

In one embodiment the source code with the resource URL can be embedded in an existing HTML source code of the lister s web pages. Regular HTML readers and parsers can disregard the data in the file. Specialized web crawling processes however can be configured to recognize tags associated with the resource URL and retrieve information related to the resource URL.

In another embodiment the source code can be in a separate file in a designated directory e.g. root directory of the lister s site . Thus for example at the top level of the site of the lister a pre established name that indicates the presence of a resource URL can be used e.g. resource.xml . Each resource URL can be further identified by syntax unique to a standard language such as IRD. Therefore if the resource URL references an IRD file then the IRD file can contain properties attributes and other elements specific to the IRD language.

In addition a lister can be a frequent user provided with a username for identification. The lister can then enter the username at username field . The lister can transmit a URL under a preconfigured username. Upon collecting the listing data at the URL the web crawler module can relay the collected listing data to the listing data collection server for further processing which includes associating the data listings in the file to the lister. The lister can then be provided with the ability administrate the submitted data listings. In another embodiment a lister is a first time user that is not required to have a username to upload a listing data file.

In one embodiment the listing manager utilizes a PALM module to process submitted or acquired listing information. The PALM module and functionalities are described in detail in the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 174 393 filed Jun. 30 2005 and entitled System and Method for Managing Listings assigned to the assignee of the present application

In addition the listing manager can include a real time listing module the permits the immediate posting of recently acquired listings at the listing server . In one embodiment the listing server can access a webpages database that stores data for providing listing webpages.

In another embodiment an application server can be communicated with a listing administration web server . The listing administration web server allows listers to check the status of submitted listing data or listing data that was placed at a website for collection by the listing service provider.

The application server may include modules for administrating listings associated with a lister. For example a sign on module that interacts with a user database includes logic to permit a lister to sign in and gain access to administrative privileges. The application server can further interact with an accounting module that tracks financial gains and other monetary aspects related to the account of the lister. In addition multiple operational modules can be provided in the application server to allow a user to administrate listings track performance and return on investment set up campaigns etc.

Communicating with the listing administration server may be an application server . The application server includes an account maintenance module a listing administration module a campaign manager and a reporting module . The account maintenance module can provide the lister with an interface for viewing paying or inquiring the latest billing profile maintenance set up multiple accounts etc.

The listing administration module permits a lister to add delete or edit listings. The campaign manager can permit a lister to set up campaigns for a listing or a group of listings. Finally the reporting module permits a lister to view the performance of listings demographics and statistical analysis on how the listings are used accessed and treated by users.

Although certain illustrative embodiments and methods have been disclosed herein it will be apparent form the foregoing disclosure to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of such embodiments and methods may be made without departing from the true spirit and scope of the art disclosed. Many other examples of the art disclosed exist each differing from others in matters of detail only. For instance listing data can be related to listings for the sale or lease or various goods and services. Examples of listing data can include sale or lease of goods such as antiques collectibles bikes boats books magazines clothing accessories shoes computers electronics cameras furniture related to health care related to personal care items for the home items for the garden jewelry watches movies music recordings office items pet supplies sports and outdoors items toys and baby items video games.

Listing data can also be related to goods and service listings related to automobiles such as used cars new cars certified pre owned research services blue book pricing services parts and accessories machinery tools etc. Listing data can also be related to pets such as cats dogs horses birds and related pet services.

Listing data can also be related to housing services such as homes for sale rentals roommates find a realtor today s mortgage rates find a mover credit reports. In addition listing data can be related to tickets for events or traveling such as sports concerts theater Broadway traveling destinations hotels airfares etc.

Listing data can be related to employment such as search jobs posting a resume creating job alerts get career advice searching by job category etc. Employment related listing data can also be used in HotJobs as provided by Yahoo Inc.

Listing data can also be listing for services. Listing for wanted services health care personal care computer services creative erotic financial legal automotive lessons household moving services construction services skilled trade real estate therapeutic etc.

Listing data can also be related to personals ads such as platonic or casual encounters women seeking women women seeking men men seeking women men seeking men romantic dinners or dates.

In addition listings can be presented in the form of banners images symbols etc. Listing can also be hyperlinked to an Internet address. Listings can be presented as symbols or areas in a map etc. Furthermore listing administration provider is any entity having a web site in which a lister user can include a listing such as an advertisement so that users visiting the web site of the listing administration provider can select the advertisement and redirected to the lister s web site.

As utilized herein modules can be separate logical computer processes separate hardware components standalone computing devices etc. Any web interface as provided herein can also be a computer application interface that does not interpret mark up language but rather communicates directly in order to interface with a server computer.

Furthermore it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the any computer network such as a LAN WAN wireless network etc. can be utilized to implement data acquisition. Accordingly it is intended that the art disclosed shall be limited only to the extent required by the appended claims and the rules and principles of applicable law. All patents patent applications and printed publications referred to here are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

