---

title: Analytical instrumentation and processes
abstract: Gas chromatography apparatuses are provided that can include a housing configured to substantially envelop the column within the compartment. Analytical instruments are provided that can include at least one chromatography column compartment having a volume of the less than 100 mL. Analytical methods are provided that can include increasing the temperature of a chromatography column at a rate of about 60° C./minute using less than about 40 W. Methods are also provided that include providing at least one gas chromatography column compartment configured to substantially envelop a gas chromatography column and performing analysis with the one compartment in the first operable position and/or transitioning portions to the second operable position to allow access to the one compartment. Production processes are provided that can include forming a first trench within the first surface of a substrate and/or aligning the first substrate with a second substrate to define at least one compartment between the first and second substrates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08043565&OS=08043565&RS=08043565
owner: Griffin Analytical Technologies, L.L.C.
number: 08043565
owner_city: West Lafayette
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060512
---
This patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 681 188 entitled Analytical Instrumentation and Processes filed May 13 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure provides analytical instrumentation and processes and in particular embodiments provides gas chromatography apparatuses analytical methods and apparatus production processes.

Gas chromatography has been used as a separation and analysis technique for the detection of chemical warfare agents environmental contaminants and or explosive compounds. Chromatographic separation can be based on the differential partitioning of compounds between a stationary phase coated on the inside of a capillary column and what can be referred to as the mobile phase such as carrier gas. Compounds that partition into the stationary phase can be retained longer within the column than other compounds that remain in the mobile phase. Compounds that partition into the stationary phase will therefore reach a detector at the end of the column later than will the other compounds that remain in the mobile phase as the other compounds are not as restrained as the compounds in the stationary phase. Temperature can be used to change the partitioning of compounds between the stationary and mobile phases which can result in the separation of similar compounds. Gas chromatography can be highly reproducible and or quantitative resulting in the ability to analyze complex samples rapidly.

However the use of gas chromatography as an analytical tool can be limited by the requirement of a large temperature controlled oven. Typical laboratory based systems are quite large 24 24 30 inches for example and require significant power 1000 W . There have been many attempts at size and power reduction of gas chromatography systems. For example ABB www.ABB.com manufactures the ACAMS for detection of chemical warfare agents at government facilities. OI Analytical 151 Graham Road College Station Tex. 77845 sells the mini CAMS for the same purpose.

Gas chromatography apparatuses are provided that can include a housing defining at least one compartment therein. The one compartment can be configured to receive a gas chromatography column and the housing can be configured to substantially envelop the column within the compartment. First and second connectors can also be coupled to the housing. The first connector can be configured to couple a sample preparation component to the column within the one compartment and the second connector can be configured to couple a detection component to the column within the one compartment. The apparatuses can include a plurality of vents extending from exterior portions of the housing to the one compartment.

Analytical instruments are provided that can include a sample preparation component coupled to a gas chromatography apparatus and a detector component coupled to the gas chromatography apparatus. The chromatography apparatus can include a housing defining at least one chromatography column compartment with the volume of the one compartment being less than 100 mL.

Analytical methods are provided that can include providing a sample to a gas chromatography column with the sample including a plurality of components. Methods provide for increasing the temperature of the column at a rate of about 60 C. minute using less than about 40 W to separate one of the components from at least one other component of the sample.

Analytical methods are also provided that can include providing at least one gas chromatography column compartment configured to substantially envelop a gas chromatography column. The one compartment can be comprised of at least a first portion operably coupled to a second portion with the portions defining the one compartment in a first operable position and allowing access to the one compartment in a second operable position. Methods provide for performing analysis with the one compartment in the first operable position and or transitioning the portions to the second operable position to allow access to the one compartment.

Production processes are provided that can include providing a first substrate comprising a first surface extending to opposing edges. Processes provide for forming a first trench within the first surface and or aligning the first substrate with a second substrate to define at least one compartment between the first and second substrates. The one compartment can be configured to substantially envelop a gas chromatography column.

At least some embodiments provide analytical apparatuses instrumentation processes and methods as well as production processes. Exemplary configurations are described with reference to . Referring to instrument is shown that includes a support structure and analytical components . In exemplary embodiments support structure can house analytical components . Support structure can include a fabricated housing such as fabricated aluminum for example. Analytical components can be configured to provide analytical data. According to exemplary embodiments instrument can be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 570 706 entitled Analysis Device Operational Methods and Analysis Device Programming Methods filed Mar. 3 2006 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Instrument may also be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 570 707 entitled Mass Spectrometry Methods and Devices filed Mar. 3 2006 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Exemplary analytical data can include both qualitative and quantitative data such as the identification and quantitation of chemical compounds.

Instrument can be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 542 187 entitled Mass Spectrometer Assemblies Mass Spectrometry Vacuum Chamber Lid Assemblies and Mass Spectrometer Operational Methods filed Jul. 13 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Instrument can also be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 554 039 entitled Mass Spectrometry Instruments and Methods filed Oct. 20 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. As another example instrument can be configured as described in International Patent Application Serial No. PCT US05 20783 entitled Analytical Instruments Assemblies and Methods filed Jun. 13 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Referring to exemplary instrument is shown that includes analytical components housed within structure . Instrument analytical components as well as structure are exemplary of instrument analytical components and structure . Components can include sample introduction component coupled to detection component . Analytical components can also include a power supply coupled to processing and control components . Exemplary power supply can include portable batteries such as sealed lead acid and or lithium iron or polymer batteries. In exemplary embodiments structure can house analytical components including power supply . In other embodiments power supply may be located outside the space defined by the structure . In exemplary implementations instrument can be less than 20 lbs in weight. Instrument can be configured as a mass spectrometer and in such configurations instrument can be less than 50 lbs in weight for example. Instrument may also be person portable and or be operable on battery supply.

Sample introduction component can include a sample introduction port not shown coupled to structure and at least one sample preparation component not shown . Exemplary sample introduction components can include those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 173 263 entitled Spectrometry Instruments Assemblies and Methods filed Jun. 30 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Component can also be configured as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 152 395 entitled Instrument Assemblies and Analysis Methods filed Jun. 13 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Sample introduction ports can be configured to receive a sample for analysis.

The sample can represent any chemical composition including both inorganic and organic substances in solid liquid and or vapor form. Specific examples of the sample suitable for analysis include volatile compounds such as toluene or other specific examples including non volatile structures such as trinitrotoluene TNT . Samples can also include toxic compounds and or chemical warfare agents. In certain aspects the sample can be a mixture containing more than one substance or in other aspects the sample can be a substantially pure substance. Analysis of the sample can be performed according to exemplary aspects described below. Exemplary introduction component can be configured to receive the sample and convey the sample to sample preparation components.

In an exemplary aspect the sample introduction port can be configured to receive sample via manual introduction such as manual introduction via a syringe and in other aspects the sample introduction port can be configured to receive sample via automated introduction such as an auto sampler. Other exemplary implementations include component being configured to acquire and or receive gas phase samples. Such exemplary gas phase sampling devices can be configured to acquire a known quantity of atmosphere for example.

For example and by way of example only component can include a sample inlet port configured to convert the sample to a form suitable for transfer. For example a solid sample can be converted to a liquid and or a gas or a liquid sample can be converted to a gas and or a solid. Likewise gases may be converted to liquids and or solids depending on the configuration of instrument . Types of sample inlet ports include batch inlets direct probe inlets and permeable semi permeable solid phase microextraction SPME and or capillary membrane inlets as well as continuous sampling ports. Sample inlet ports can also include liquid injection ports that can be configured to be operated in split and split less modes. Exemplary ports include thermal desorber systems.

Component can be configured to utilize different sample introduction ports simultaneously. For example the sample introduction port can be configured in one embodiment as parallel ports with one port configured to receive sample from a syringe and another port configured to receive sample from another instrument such as an automated air sampling device.

Depending upon the sample component may also be configured to prepare the sample for introduction into remaining components . According to the exemplarily depicted embodiment of component can be configured to prepare the sample for introduction into detection component . Component can also include sample preparation components that can be configured to prepare the sample received from a sample introduction port for example for analysis by the remaining components . Component can include the sample preparation components and these sample preparation components can be coupled to the remaining components . According to exemplary embodiments some of the remaining analysis components can be directly coupled to the sample introduction port. For example an analysis component of components such as a sample preparation component can be configured to receive the sample from the batch inlets direct probe inlets SPME and or capillary membrane inlets described above. The sample preparation component can be configured to separate the sample through for example chromatography. For example component can be configured to pass the sample through a gas chromatography apparatus. In exemplary embodiments the gas chromatography apparatus can include capillary columns and in other embodiments the apparatus can be configured to perform fast gas chromatography. Chromatography apparatus such as that manufactured by RVM Scientific 5511 Ekwill St. A Santa Barbara Calif. 93111 2398 can be utilized. The apparatus can be of a low thermal mass that eliminates the large air bath gas oven and is therefore capable of providing very rapid temperature ramps.

The chromatography apparatus can be powered by power supply while providing standard temperature profiles using process and control components . In exemplary embodiments the power utilized is low when compared to that of conventional ovens. Chromatography apparatus such as that manufactured by RVM Scientific have been modified to couple to mass spectrometers such as the Minotaur 300 manufactured by Griffin Analytical Technologies West Lafayette Ind. . In exemplary embodiments instrument can be the size of a tower computer can weigh about 40 lbs. and can include all of the required components of a gas chromatograph coupled to a mass spectrometer GC MS . Instrument can consume 250 W dependent upon configuration and can be operated on battery power for 1 hour. In exemplary embodiments rapid chromatographic separation and multi dimensional mass analysis can be achieved using instrument

The RVM chromatographic apparatus is manufactured as an integrated assembly. The integrated assembly includes the gas chromatography column the most common replacement component a heater and a temperature control line for example and replacement of one of these components requires the replacement of the entire assembly. For example when changing and or maintaining columns of the RVM apparatus the entire assembly requires replacement instead of the column itself. Replacing components additional to the column can increase the cost of performing this routine replacement and or maintenance work by at least a factor of five over the cost of replacing and or maintaining the gas chromatography column alone.

Furthermore the RVM apparatus does not provide analysts with the flexibility to change chromatographic columns inexpensively as analysis dictates. For example one sample may dictate analysis with one column and another sample with another column. The integrated assembly requires the analyst have two assemblies on hand one having one column and another having another column. As such the analyst is required to have an additional assembly available that costs 4 to 5 times more than an off the shelf column because the analyst cannot replace the column of the integrated assembly with one of his own choosing.

The integrated assembly can further complicate matters such as maintenance. For example gas chromatography columns can become clogged and require the removal of a portion of the column to remove the clog typically the portion proximate the inlet assembly. An integrated assembly does not allow for such removal and as such the entire assembly requires replacement instead of a relatively simple removal of a portion of the column that has little if any impact on separation performance.

Component can include a consumables generator. In exemplary embodiments the consumables generator can be configured to generate consumables for use during the operation of the instrument. For example where the sample preparation component is configured to process the sample by gas chromatography the consumables generator can be configured to provide carrier gas to the gas chromatograph. In exemplary embodiments the generator is configured as a nitrogen generator and nitrogen is utilized as a carrier gas during the gas chromatography performed by component . Exemplary aspects also include a generator configured to provide consumables to the sample introduction port. For example in the case where the port is configured to be flushed either before or after the sample is received the generator can be configured to provide flushing gases to the port. In exemplary embodiments the generator can be external or internal of the instrument. Exemplary aspects also include providing consumables from outside the instrument such as configuring the instrument to be coupled to a tank of consumable carrier gas.

Detection components can include exemplary gas chromatography detection components such as flame ionization thermal conductivity and or photo ionization detection components as well as mass detection components including mass spectrometry detection components. In exemplary embodiments the detection components may require vacuum components such as getter pumps piston pumps turbo pumps and or drag pumps. In exemplary embodiments rugged pumps capable of providing sufficient vacuum can be utilized. The vacuum component can include both a high vacuum pump and a rough pump. In exemplary implementations the rough pump and high vacuum pump can be configured to share common components such as circuitry and or power supply. High vacuum pumps such as turbo pumps can be backed by a rough pump such as a diaphragm pump or rotary vane pump for example.

In exemplary embodiments detection components are configured to be modular thereby facilitating sufficient maintenance and or removal and replacement. Exemplary detection components include those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 537 019 entitled Processes for Designing Mass Separators and Ion Traps Methods for Producing Mass Separators and Ion Traps Mass Spectrometers Ion Traps and Methods for Analyzing Samples filed Jun. 1 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Additional detection components include those described in International Patent Serial No. PCT US04 29127 entitled Ion Detection Methods Mass Spectrometry Analysis Methods and Mass Spectrometry Instrument Circuitry filed Sep. 3 2004 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Processing and control components can be coupled to inlet system detection components and power supply components as shown in for example. All the components described above can be controlled monitored and or have data acquired from by processing and control components . In exemplary embodiments all or at least more than one of the components described above can be coupled to processing and control components . According to exemplary embodiments instrument and processing and control components can be configured to perform analysis using apparatuses and methods described in International Patent Application Ser. No. 11 919 323 filed May 10 2006 entitled Analytical Instrumentation Apparatuses and Methods the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Processing and control components can include a user interface coupled to structure of instrument for example. Processing and control components can also include processing circuitry coupled to both the user interface and storage circuitry. According to one embodiment the user interface can be coupled to structure and provide user access to the process circuitry. The user interface can take the form of a keyboard a keypad and or a touch screen aligned with the exterior of the structure in exemplary embodiments and the user interface can be within the volume defined by structure when structure houses components . Access to the user interface can be had through access panels doors or openings not shown in structure for example. In other embodiments the user interface can be a computer interface that is configured to provide access to another process and control component for example a stand alone computer. In exemplary embodiments the computer interface can be a wireless interface and in other embodiments the computer interface can take the form of a TCP IP or a standard LAN connection. In exemplary embodiments instrument can be configured to accumulate and store sample data unattended. In other embodiments instrument can be configured to allow access to data and further provide for the manipulation of the data acquired. According to another embodiment instrument can be configured to send data to a remote computer upon acquisition.

In one embodiment the progression of analysis from inlet system component to detection component can be controlled and or monitored by the processing circuitry of process and control component . The processing circuitry may be implemented as a processor or other structure configured to execute executable instructions including for example software and or firmware instructions. Other exemplary embodiments of the processing circuitry include hardware logic PGA FPGA ASIC and or other structures. These examples of the processing circuitry are for illustration and other configurations are possible.

The processing circuitry can be configured to control the values of analytical component parameters defined by the user of the instrument and or monitor the components. Control of the analytical component parameter values by the processing circuitry can include for example dictating a predefined temperature program to perform gas chromatography by inlet system component . In one embodiment the processing circuitry can also be configured to control the sample introduction port of component . Exemplary monitoring includes the recording of data received from detection component . By varying analytical component parameter values utilized sample characteristics and or data can be obtained typically in the form of a chromatogram.

In one aspect the processing circuitry may execute data acquisition and searching programming and or be configured to perform data acquisition and searching that includes the acquisition of sample characteristics such as total ion current and or mass spectra. In another aspect the processing circuitry can be configured to associate chromatograms associated with the analysis of a previously identified sample known with a sample currently under analysis unknown . For example the processing circuitry can be configured to store and access data from the storage circuitry. The storage circuitry can be configured to store electronic data and or programming such as executable instructions e.g. software and or firmware data or other digital information and may include processor usable media. The processor usable media can include any article of manufacture which can contain store or maintain programming data and or digital information for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system including processing circuitry in the exemplary embodiment. For example exemplary processor usable media may include any one of physical media such as electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic and infrared or semiconductor media. Some more specific examples of processor usable media include but are not limited to a portable magnetic computer diskette such as a floppy diskette zip disk hard drive random access memory read only memory flash memory cache memory and or other configurations capable of storing programming data or other digital information. Embodiments also include configurations where process and control components can be configured to acquire sample data and analyze acquired data unattended.

For example component can be configured as an auto sampler and in exemplary embodiments air and or liquid samples can be acquired at predefined intervals as dictated by process and control component . Process and control component can be configured according to predefined user parameters to acquire sample data. In other embodiments process and control component can be configured to forward data and or instrument status to remote locations via wireless and or wired communication.

Referring to instrument is depicted according to an exemplary embodiment. Instrument can include support structure as well as analytical components . More particularly analytical instrument can include a gas chromatography apparatus and as exemplarily shown support structure of instrument can include an access panel to allow access to apparatus . Apparatus is exemplary of a sample preparation component of component described herein and can be utilized according to other instrument configurations beyond the may examples given herein as will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the analytical arts.

Referring to component can be coupled to other sample introduction components for example. Components can include sample introduction components and chromatography apparatus for example. Component can include an interface that includes a continuous air sampling system for example. System can include a diaphragm sampling pump that is configured to pull ambient air through a preconcentrating sorbent material . The sorbent material can be configured to preferentially trap compounds of interest while allowing compounds of less interest in certain applications for example nitrogen and oxygen to pass through. In an exemplary embodiment system can include a heater that can be configured to rapidly desorb the compound of interest onto the head of a chromatography column within chromatography component . In exemplary embodiments switching valves can be utilized in conjunction with the process and control components to control the flow of sample and or carrier gas through sorbent material in conjunction with the predefined heating of the sorbent. Components can include heated transfer lines to efficiently deliver a sample from component . Components can also include a direct injection interface that allows for direct analysis of samples and or can allow for the preparation of calibration curves utilizing the process and control components.

Referring to apparatus is shown in a first operable position or closed configuration. Apparatus can include a housing defining at least one compartment therein. Compartment can be configured to receive a gas chromatography column for example. Housing can be configured to substantially envelop the column within compartment . According to exemplary embodiments the column can be enveloped through covering all sides of the column with walls of compartment . For example and by way of example only the column can be configured as a capillary gas chromatography column and all exterior walls of the column including walls that traditionally oppose one another in state of the art chromatography apparatuses oppose wall of compartment in apparatus .

Compartment can be configured to substantially conform to the outline of a gas chromatography column. For example commercially available capillary columns typically are configured in a circle. Compartment can be configured to receive these columns configured as commercially available such as columns configured in a circle. Compartment can be configured to receive columns and provide for minimal air space between the column and the walls of compartment . For example compartment can be configured to receive a column without the column physically contacting the walls of the compartment. According to exemplary embodiments compartment can have a volume less than 100 mL or even less than 50 mL. Compartment can be configured to have a volume sufficient to receive columns of various lengths and diameters while providing a minimal amount of air volume when the column is received within compartment .

The columns can be at least 1 M in length from 5 to 30M in length and at least 30 M in length for example. The volume of compartment can be less than about 100 mL and according to exemplary embodiments compartment can have a volume of less than 50 mL to accommodate these columns.

Apparatus includes first and second connectors coupled to housing . According to exemplary embodiments the first connector can be configured to couple a sample preparation component to the column within compartment and the second connector can be configured to couple a detection component to the column within compartment . This coupling can be preformed using coupling devices such chromatography column fittings known in the art.

According to exemplary embodiments compartment defined by the housing can be substantially tubular. Compartment defined by the housing can also be substantially circular in at least one cross section. Compartment defined by the housing can be configured as a tunnel extending from the first connector to the second connector. According to exemplary embodiments at least a portion of the tunnel extending from the first connector to the second connector can be configured to form a complete circle within the housing. An exemplary implementation of compartment is a tunnel having at least a portion extending from the first connector to the second connector and forming a semi circle within the housing.

Apparatus can also include a plurality of vents extending from exterior portions of housing to compartment . Vents can be configured to provide a tortured path for atmosphere to either enter or depart compartment . For example during a cooling cycle of apparatus it may be desired to remove atmosphere from within compartment by providing a pressure differentiation via opening . According to exemplary embodiments a pressure differentiating component can be coupled to compartment via opening extending from compartment through an exterior surface of housing . Opening can be configured to provide fluid communication between compartment and the pressure differentiating component. The pressure differentiating component can be a vacuum pump and or a fan. This pressure differentiation may be provided using a fan to force gas into compartment or draw atmosphere from compartment . Vents may be configured to allow atmosphere to pass into or out of compartment at a desired rate. According to exemplary embodiments the pressure differentiating component can be a cooling fluid such as compressed carbon dioxide and or nitrogen.

Pumps used to transfer atmosphere into or out of compartment may be configured to support another component of the analytical instrument. For example the pump may also be utilized to facilitate the operation of other analytical components such as a mass spectrometry component.

In an exemplary implementation the pump may be configured to provide for the exchange of the atmosphere within compartment . For example the processing and control components may be configured to initiate the removal of the atmosphere from compartment and upon removal another atmosphere may enter compartment via vents . The atmosphere entering compartment via vents may have a lower temperature than the atmosphere being removed from compartment . Such exchange can result in the cooling the contents of compartment specifically the column within compartment . In exemplary embodiments the size and or shape of vents may dictate the speed and or accuracy with which the temperature within compartment may be changed and or maintained.

According to another exemplary implementation a composition may be provided to compartment to facilitate cooling of the contents of compartment . For example the composition provided to compartment may be in the liquid form such as liquid nitrogen and or the composition may be in the gaseous form such as nitrogen carbon dioxide and or air. The providing of the composition to compartment can be facilitated by establishing a pressure differential across vents . This differential can be achieved by providing the composition to the exterior of vents having a higher pressure than the interior of compartment for example. Such composition may be provided in the form of compressed gas for example and or may be provided from another component of the instrument. For example where the inlet system to the instrument includes a split split less injection component the split from the injection component may be provided to the exterior of vents . In exemplary embodiments the split may be transferred to the vents via tubing having a coil and or grid. The coil and or grid may be placed proximate a cooling unit such as a fan. As the split transverses the coil and or grid the gas within the tubing may be cooled before proceeding to vents for example. It is also contemplated that the composition can be provided to the exterior of vents and vacuum drawn on opening to facilitate a pressure differential across vents .

Referring to apparatus is depicted in a second open operable position allowing access to compartment . According to an exemplary embodiment apparatus can include at least two pieces of material. Each of the pieces of material can have surfaces configured to interface with one another and define compartment when in the first operable position depicted in for example. According to exemplary embodiments a surface of at least one of the pieces of material and or or both pieces of material can define an opening within either or both surfaces. The opening can define at least a portion of compartment when the surface of one piece of material interfaces with the surface of the other piece of material for example when apparatus is in the first operable position. A surface of either one or both pieces of material can define vents as well. According to exemplary embodiments the openings defined by the surface of either or both pieces of material that define compartment can substantially compliment an outline of a gas chromatography column. According to exemplary embodiments this column can be a capillary column in its traditional coiled configuration. The opening may also compliment a circular column. According to exemplary embodiments the opening defined by the surface can include a trench extending from the first connector to the second connector. The trench can be concave in at least one cross section.

As depicted in apparatus can be configured of multiple pieces of material. According to exemplary embodiments at least two of these pieces of material can be operably coupled to one another. For example an end of one piece of material can be coupled to one end of another piece of material via a hinge. According to exemplary embodiments the pieces can be configured to be positioned in a first operable position to substantially envelop the column and a second operable position wherein the pieces are spaced from one another sufficient to access compartment and or a column. The first operable position can be considered the closed position and the second operable position can be considered the open position.

Compartment in an exemplary embodiment has been machined and or etched into the two parts of housing . Likewise vents are shown machined and or etched into the two parts of housing . This hinge configuration is but one of the many exemplary configurations of component of the present description.

Referring to an elevational cross section of housing is shown having an isolated heater therein as well as an exemplary capillary gas chromatography column . Apparatus can include compartment configured to receive a heating element for example. The heating element can be configured to extend from the first connector through compartment to the second connector.

According to exemplary embodiments compartment can be configured to receive both a chromatography column and a compartment heater. Compartment can be configured to receive a compartment heater and align the column received to allow for the majority of the column to reside in the heated zone provided by the heater. For example the heater can be within the space between the column and the walls of compartment . According to exemplary implementations the heater can reside in the compartment without physically contacting the column. Other implementations include the heater residing within compartment without physically contacting the walls of the compartment and or the column. In accordance with other aspects of the disclosure the heater can be incorporated into the walls of the compartment. According to exemplary implementations the heater can provide a heated zone within compartment . This heated zone can extend throughout an entirety of the volume defined by compartment . In accordance with exemplary implementations a majority and or an entirety of the column received by compartment can be within this heated zone.

The alignment of the heater and the column is depicted within opening for example. Opening can be configured to provide for the sealing of heater and column within opening . Typical heaters are low thermal mass resistive heaters that can be electrically isolated from an outer shell such as housing . Exemplary heaters include those of aluminum and those that can be used as a heat sink. Referring to heater is electrically isolated from column within compartment by a heat sink material such as aluminum. Heater can be configured to distribute heat uniformly within compartment . In exemplary embodiments the heat sink material can shield heater from housing as well. Column can reside within the heat sink provided by heater . In exemplary embodiments the low dead volume such as the less than 50 mL discussed above combined with a low thermal mass of a heat sink can allow for a temperature ramp rate of at least 60 C. per minute with from between about 10 W of power to about 40 W of power from power supply . Application of more power can result in higher temperature ramp rates. For example power greater than 40W can result in ramp rates greater than 60 C. per minute as desired by the operator. Ramp rates as high as 300 C. min can also be achieved. Ramp rates can also be configured to account the thermal mass of the chromatography column utilized. For example a higher ramp rate per unit of power can be achieved using a 5 meter capillary column as compared to a ramp rate per unit power when utilizing a 30 meter column. Exemplary columns include those between 1 meter and 30 meters.

In exemplary embodiments the atmosphere within compartment can be cooled rapidly a pressure differentiation device as exemplarily described herein. Utilizing the process and control components in conjunction with the power supply and heater as well as pressure differentiation for example forced convection cooling and or heating may be obtained and utilized to maintain and or modify the temperature of the atmosphere within compartment and hence column .

With reference to an exemplary exploded depiction of the placement of column and heater within a part of housing is shown. As shown heater can be placed proximate housing in an exemplary embodiment. As described between heater and column may exist a heat sink material not shown . In the exemplary embodiment column is separate from heater and may be separated from housing for maintenance and or replacement as the operator requires. By way of another example compartment may be configured to house more than one heater .

Referring to housing can be configured with a heater construction . In exemplary embodiments construction can include a serial array of coated wires within and or along the sidewalls of compartment . This array can be dispersed throughout the interior walls of compartment on either or both sides of housing and or along the sidewalls of openings . The density of the array can be distributed as desired to account for heat sinks within or proximate compartment . For example near connectors within compartment the array can be more dense than along the sidewalls of compartment to account for additional heat sink that may result from connectors . As another example the density of the array can be decreased to provide a region within the compartment having a temperature profile different from that in the remainder of the compartment. In exemplary applications as configured with such a region the instrument may be utilized to perform a modified GC analysis. As depicted in column can be placed within compartment having construction encompassing the interior of compartment .

Referring to an exemplary chromatography program is illustrated. The chromatography program may be utilized by the process and control components in conjunction with the analytical components described herein In exemplary embodiments compartment may be sealed under vacuum when elevating the temperature of the heaters. When heating under vacuum in this configuration rapid heating profiles can be achieved.

According to exemplary implementations apparatus can be used to complete analytical methods. For example a sample can be provided to a gas chromatography column. The sample can include a plurality of components. The temperature of the column can be increased at a rate of about 60 C. minute using less than about 40 W to separate one of the components from at least one other component of the sample. According to exemplary embodiments the temperature of the column can be increased at a rate of about 60 C. minute using from about 10 W to about 40 W. Methods can also include decreasing the temperature of the column by contacting the column with a cooling fluid such as carbon dioxide and or nitrogen.

The analytical methods can also include providing at least one gas chromatography column compartment configured to substantially envelop a gas chromatography column with the one compartment being comprised of at least a first portion operably coupled to a second portion. The portions can define the one compartment in a first operable position and allowing access to the one compartment in a second operable position. According to exemplary embodiments analysis can be performed with the one compartment in the first operable position. The portions can then be transitioned to the second operable position to allow access to the one compartment. According to exemplary embodiments the first portion can be operably coupled to the second portion via a hinge.

Methods can also include removing one column from the compartment after transitioning the portions to the second operable position as well as replacing the one column with another column after removing the one column.

Exemplary methods of producing apparatus can include providing a first substrate comprising a first surface extending to opposing edges. Substrates of apparatus can be a relatively solid structure such as a lightweight material in one embodiment and or in other embodiments a material that provides low thermal conductivity such as an insulative material. One exemplary material of construction for the substrate is Zircal 18 available from Zircar Refractory Components Inc. Florida N.Y. 10921 USA which is typically a ceramic that may be machined.

According to exemplary embodiments a first trench can be formed within the first surface of the substrate. The substrate of apparatus can be machined to provide compartment within apparatus . The trench can be machined to provide sufficient space to house a gas chromatography column. Chromatography columns that may be housed within compartment include both capillary and non capillary chromatography columns. The chromatography columns may be acquired off the shelf from commercial vendors such as RESTEK 110 Benner Circle Bellefonte Pa. 16823 for example.

In exemplary embodiments compartment can be less than 50 mL in dead air volume and or compartment can be machined from two separate pieces which can be used to form apparatus . In accordance with exemplary implementations the first substrate can be aligned with a second substrate to define compartment between the first and second substrates. Compartment can be configured to substantially envelop a gas chromatography column as described for example. The trench of the first substrate for example can extend from one of the opposing edges of the first substrate through the first substrate to the same opposing edge. The trench can be configured as a semi circle within the substrate or a circle within the substrate. According to exemplary embodiments a second trench can be formed with the second substrate. The second trench can be configured to further define compartment upon aligning the first substrate with the second substrate. The first substrate can also be operably coupled to the second substrate.

