---

title: Compositions and methods for treating heart failure
abstract: Certain substituted benzamide derivatives selectively modulate the cardiac sarcomere, for example by potentiating cardiac myosin, and are useful in the treatment of systolic heart failure including congestive heart failure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07605164&OS=07605164&RS=07605164
owner: Cytokinetics, Inc.
number: 07605164
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 040 478 filed Jan. 20 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 053 094 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 327 219 filed Dec. 20 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 908 923 issued Jun. 21 2005 which application claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 343 088 filed Dec. 21 2001 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under NIH Grant Number 1 R43 HL66647 01. Accordingly the United States Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to substituted benzamide derivatives particularly to compounds that selectively modulate the cardiac sarcomere and specifically to compounds pharmaceutical formulations and methods of treatment for systolic heart failure including congestive heart failure.

The sarcomere is an elegantly organized cellular structure found in cardiac and skeletal muscle made up of interdigitating thin and thick filaments it comprises nearly 60 of cardiac cell volume. The thick filaments are composed of myosin the protein responsible for transducing chemical energy ATP hydrolysis into force and directed movement. Myosin and its functionally related cousins are called motor proteins. The thin filaments are composed of a complex of proteins. One of these proteins actin a filamentous polymer is the substrate upon which myosin pulls during force generation. Bound to actin are a set of regulatory proteins the troponin complex and tropomyosin which make the actin myosin interaction dependent on changes in intracellular Ca levels. With each heartbeat Ca levels rise and fall initiating cardiac muscle contraction and then cardiac muscle relaxation Robbins J and Leinwand L A. 1999 Chapter 8. editor Chien K. R. W. B. Saunders Philadelphia . Each of the components of the sarcomere contributes to its contractile response.

Myosin is the most extensively studied of all the motor proteins. Of the thirteen distinct classes of myosin in human cells the myosin II class is responsible for contraction of skeletal cardiac and smooth muscle. This class of myosin is significantly different in amino acid composition and in overall structure from myosin in the other twelve distinct classes Goodson H V and Spudich J A. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 659 663 . Myosin II consists of two globular head domains linked together by a long alpha helical coiled coiled tail that assembles with other myosin IIs to form the core of the sarcomere s thick filament. The globular heads have a catalytic domain where the actin binding and ATP functions of myosin take place. Once bound to an actin filament the release of phosphate cf. ATP to ADP leads to a change in structural conformation of the catalytic domain that in turn alters the orientation of the light chain binding lever arm domain that extends from the globular head this movement is termed the powerstroke. This change in orientation of the myosin head in relationship to actin causes the thick filament of which it is a part to move with respect to the thin actin filament to which it is bound Spudich J A. 2001 Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2 5 387 92 . Un binding of the globular head from the actin filament also Ca modulated coupled with return of the catalytic domain and light chain to their starting conformation orientation completes the contraction and relaxation cycle.

Mammalian heart muscle consists of two forms of cardiac myosin alpha and beta and they are well characterized Robbins supra . The beta form is the predominant form 90 percent in adult human cardiac muscle. Both have been observed to be regulated in human heart failure conditions at both transcriptional and translational levels Miyata supra with the alpha form being down regulated in heart failure.

The sequences of all of the human skeletal cardiac and smooth muscle myosins have been determined. While the cardiac alpha and beta myosins are very similar 93 identity they are both considerably different from human smooth muscle 42 identity and more closely related to skeletal myosins 80 identity . Conveniently cardiac muscle myosins are incredibly conserved across mammalian species. For example both alpha and beta cardiac myosins are 96 conserved between humans and rats and the available 250 residue sequence of porcine cardiac beta myosin is 100 conserved with the corresponding human cardiac beta myosin sequence. Such sequence conservation contributes to the predictability of studying myosin based therapeutics in animal based models of heart failure.

The components of the cardiac sarcomere present targets for the treatment of heart failure for example by increasing contractility or facilitating complete relaxation to modulate systolic and diastolic function respectively.

Congestive heart failure CHF is not a specific disease but rather a constellation of signs and symptoms all of which are caused by an inability of the heart to adequately respond to exertion by increasing cardiac output. The dominant pathophysiology associated with CHF is systolic dysfunction an impairment of cardiac contractility with a consequent reduction in the amount of blood ejected with each heartbeat . Systolic dysfunction with compensatory dilation of the ventricular cavities results in the most common form of heart failure dilated cardiomyopathy which is often considered to be one in the same as CHF. The counterpoint to systolic dysfunction is diastolic dysfunction an impairment of the ability to fill the ventricles with blood which can also result in heart failure even with preserved left ventricular function. Congestive heart failure is ultimately associated with improper function of the cardiac myocyte itself involving a decrease in its ability to contract and relax.

Many of the same underlying conditions can give rise to systolic and or diastolic dysfunction such as atherosclerosis hypertension viral infection valvular dysfunction and genetic disorders. Patients with these conditions typically present with the same classical symptoms shortness of breath edema and overwhelming fatigue. In approximately half of the patients with dilated cardiomyopathy the cause of their heart dysfunction is ischemic heart disease due to coronary atherosclerosis. These patients have had either a single myocardial infarction or multiple myocardial infarctions here the consequent scarring and remodeling results in the development of a dilated and hypocontractile heart. At times the causative agent cannot be identified so the disease is referred to as idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Irrespective of ischemic or other origin patients with dilated cardiomyopathy share an abysmal prognosis excessive morbidity and high mortality.

The prevalence of CHF has grown to epidemic proportions as the population ages and as cardiologists have become more successful at reducing mortality from ischemic heart disease the most common prelude to CHF. Roughly 4.6 million people in the United States have been diagnosed with CHF the incidence of such diagnosis is approaching 10 per 1000 after 65 years of age. Hospitalization for CHF is usually the result of inadequate outpatient therapy. Hospital discharges for CHF rose from 377 000 in 1979 to 957 000 in 1997 making CHF the most common discharge diagnosis in people age 65 and over. The five year mortality from CHF approaches 50 Levy D. 2002 New Engl J Med. 347 18 1442 4 . Hence while therapies for heart disease have greatly improved and life expectancies have extended over the last several years new and better therapies continue to be sought particularly for CHF.

 Acute congestive heart failure also known as acute decompensated heart failure involves a precipitous drop in heart function resulting from a variety of causes. For example in a patient who already has congestive heart failure a new myocardial infarction discontinuation of medications and dietary indiscretions may all lead to accumulation of edema fluid and metabolic insufficiency even in the resting state. A therapeutic agent that increases heart function during such an acute episode could assist in relieving this metabolic insufficiency and speeding the removal of edema facilitating the return to the more stable compensated congestive heart failure state. Patients with very advanced congestive heart failure particularly those at the end stage of the disease also could benefit from a therapeutic agent that increases heart function for example for stabilization while waiting for a heart transplant. Other potential benefits could be provided to patients coming off a bypass pump for example by administration of an agent that assists the stopped or slowed heart in resuming normal function. Patients who have diastolic dysfunction insufficient relaxation of the heart muscle could benefit from a therapeutic agent that modulates relaxation.

Inotropes are drugs that increase the contractile ability of the heart. As a group all current inotropes have failed to meet the gold standard for heart failure therapy i.e. to prolong patient survival. In addition current agents are poorly selective for cardiac tissue in part leading to recognized adverse effects that limit their use. Despite this fact intravenous inotropes continue to be widely used in acute heart failure e.g. to allow for reinstitution of oral medications or to bridge patients to heart transplantation whereas in chronic heart failure orally given digoxin is used as an inotrope to relieve patient symptoms improve the quality of life and reduce hospital admissions.

Given the limitations of current agents new approaches are needed to improve cardiac function in congestive heart failure. The most recently approved short term intravenous agent milrinone is now nearly fifteen years old. The only available oral drug digoxin is over 200 hundred years old. There remains a great need for agents that exploit new mechanisms of action and may have better outcomes in terms of relief of symptoms safety and patient mortality both short term and long term. New agents with an improved therapeutic index over current agents will provide a means to achieve these clinical outcomes. The selectivity of agents directed at the cardiac sarcomere for example by targeting cardiac beta myosin will be an important means to achieve this improved therapeutic index. The present invention provides such agents particularly sarcomere activating agents and methods for their identification and use.

The present invention provides compounds pharmaceutical compositions and methods for the treatment of heart disease including CHF particularly systolic heart failure. The compositions are selective modulators of the cardiac sarcomere for example potentiating cardiac myosin.

Yet other aspects the invention relates to a pharmaceutical formulation including a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and to a method of treatment for heart disease each entailing a therapeutically effective amount of a compound represented by Formula I wherein 

In an additional aspect the present invention provides methods of screening for compounds that will bind to myosin particularly myosin III a cardiac myosin or cardiac myosin for example compounds that will displace or compete with the binding of the compounds of the invention. The methods comprise combining a labeled compound of the invention myosin and at least one candidate agent and determining the binding of the candidate agent to myosin.

In a further aspect the invention provides methods of screening for modulators of the activity of myosin. The methods comprise combining a compound of the invention myosin and at least one candidate agent and determining the effect of the candidate agent on the activity of myosin.

Other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art form the following detailed description.

As used in the present specification the following words and phrases are generally intended to have the meanings as set forth below except to the extent that the context in which they are used indicates otherwise. The following abbreviations and terms have the indicated meanings throughout 

The term optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted alkyl means either alkyl or substituted alkyl as defined below. It will be understood by those skilled in the art with respect to any group containing one or more substituents that such groups are not intended to introduce any substitution or substitution patterns e.g. substituted alkyl includes optionally substituted cycloalkyl groups which in turn are defined as including optionally substituted alkyl groups potentially ad infinitum that are sterically impractical synthetically non feasible and or inherently unstable.

 Alkyl is intended to include linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon structures and combinations thereof. Lower alkyl refers to alkyl groups of from 1 to 5 carbon atoms. Examples of lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl s and t butyl and the like. Preferred alkyl groups are those of Cor below. More preferred alkyl groups are those of Cor below. Still more preferred alkyl groups are those of Cand below. Cycloalkyl is a subset of alkyl and includes cyclic hydrocarbon groups of from 3 to 13 carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include c propyl c butyl c pentyl norbomyl adamantyl and the like. In this application alkyl refers to alkanyl alkenyl and alkynyl residues it is intended to include cyclohexylmethyl vinyl allyl isoprenyl and the like. Alkylene is another subset of alkyl referring to the same residues as alkyl but having two points of attachment. Examples of alkylene include ethylene CHCH propylene CHCHCH dimethylpropylene CHC CH CH and cyclohexylpropylene CHCHCH CH . When an alkyl residue having a specific number of carbons is named all geometric isomers having that number of carbons are intended to be encompassed thus for example butyl is meant to include n butyl sec butyl isobutyl and t butyl propyl includes n propyl and isopropyl.

The term alkoxy or alkoxyl refers to the group O alkyl preferably including from 1 to 8 carbon atoms of a straight branched cyclic configuration and combinations thereof attached to the parent structure through an oxygen. Examples include methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy cyclopropyloxy cyclohexyloxy and the like. Lower alkoxy refers to groups containing one to four carbons.

The term substituted alkoxy refers to the group O substituted alkyl . One preferred substituted alkoxy group is polyalkoxy or O optionally substituted alkylene optionally substituted alkoxy and includes groups such as OCHCHOCH and glycol ethers such as polyethyleneglycol and O CHCHO CH where x is an integer of about 2 20 preferably about 2 10 and more preferably about 2 5. Another preferred substituted alkoxy group is hydroxyalkoxy or OCH CH OH where y is an integer of about 1 10 preferably about 1 4.

 Acyl refers to groups of from 1 to 10 carbon atoms of a straight branched cyclic configuration saturated unsaturated and aromatic and combinations thereof attached to the parent structure through a carbonyl functionality. One or more carbons in the acyl residue may be replaced by nitrogen oxygen or sulfur as long as the point of attachment to the parent remains at the carbonyl. Examples include acetyl benzoyl propionyl isobutyryl t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Lower acyl refers to groups containing 1 to 4 carbons and acyloxy refers to the group O acyl.

The term amino refers to the group NH. The term substituted amino refers to the group NHR or NRR where each R is independently selected from the group optionally substituted alkyl optionally substituted alkoxy optionally substituted amino optionally substituted aryl optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heterocyclyl acyl alkoxycarbonyl sulfanyl sulfinyl and sulfonyl e.g. diethylamino methylsulfonylamino furanyl oxy sulfonamino.

 Aryl and heteroaryl mean a 5 6 or 7 membered aromatic or heteroaromatic ring containing 0 4 heteroatoms selected from O N or S a bicyclic 9 or 10 membered aromatic or heteroaromatic ring system containing 0 4 or more heteroatoms selected from O N or S or a tricyclic 12 to 14 membered aromatic or heteroaromatic ring system containing 0 4 or more heteroatoms selected from O N or S. The aromatic 6 to 14 membered aromatic carbocyclic rings include e.g. phenyl naphthalene indane tetralin and fluorene and the 5 to 10 membered aromatic heterocyclic rings include e.g. imidazole oxazole isoxazole oxadiazole pyridine indole thiophene benzopyranone thiazole furan benzimidazole quinoline isoquinoline quinoxaline pyrimidine pyrazine tetrazole and pyrazole.

 Aralkoxy refers to the group O aralkyl. Similarly heteroaralkoxy refers to the group O heteroaralkyl aryloxy refers to O aryl and heteroaryloxy refers to the group O heteroaryl.

 Aralkyl refers to a residue in which an aryl moiety is attached to the parent structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include benzyl phenethyl phenylvinyl phenylallyl and the like. Heteroaralkyl refers to a residue in which a heteroaryl moiety is attached to the parent structure via an alkyl residue. Examples include furanylmethyl pyridinylmethyl pyrimidinylethyl and the like.

 ATPase refers to an enzyme that hydrolyzes ATP. ATPases include proteins comprising molecular motors such as the myosins.

 Halogen or halo refers to fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine. Fluorine chlorine and bromine are preferred. Dihaloaryl dihaloalkyl trihaloaryl etc. refer to aryl and alkyl substituted with a plurality of halogens but not necessarily a plurality of the same halogen thus 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl is within the scope of dihaloaryl.

 Heterocycle means a cycloalkyl or aryl residue in which one to four of the carbons is replaced by a heteroatom such as oxygen nitrogen or sulfur. Examples of heterocycles that fall within the scope of the invention include imidazoline pyrrolidine pyrazole pyrrole indole quinoline isoquipoline tetrahydroisoquinoline benzofuran benzodioxan benzodioxole commonly referred to as methylenedioxyphenyl when occurring as a substituent tetrazole morpholine thiazole pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine thiophene furan oxazole oxazoline isoxazole oxadiazole dioxane tetrahydrofuran and the like. N heterocyclyl refers to a nitrogen containing heterocycle as a substituent residue. The term heterocyclyl encompasses heteroaryl which is a subset of heterocyclyl. Examples of N heterocyclyl residues include 4 morpholinyl 4 thiomorpholinyl 1 piperidinyl 1 pyrrolidinyl 3 thiazolidinyl piperazinyl and 4 3 4 dihydrobenzoxazinyl . Examples of substituted heterocyclyl include 4 methyl 1 piperazinyl and 4 benzyl 1 piperidinyl.

 Isomers are different compounds that have the same molecular formula. Stereoisomers are isomers that differ only in the way the atoms are arranged in space. Enantiomers are a pair of stereoisomers that are non superimposable mirror images of each other. A 1 1 mixture of a pair of enantiomers is a racemic mixture. The term . . is used to designate a racemic mixture where appropriate. Diastereoisomers are stereoisomers that have at least two asymmetric atoms but which are not mirror images of each other. The absolute stereochemistry is specified according to the Cahn lngold Prelog R S system. When a compound is a pure enantiomer the stereochemistry at each chiral carbon may be specified by either R or S. Resolved compounds whose absolute configuration is unknown can be designated or depending on the direction dextro or levorotatory which they rotate plane polarized light at the wavelength of the sodium D line. Certain of the compounds described herein contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S . The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers including racemic mixtures optically pure forms and intermediate mixtures. Optically active R and S isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques. When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centers of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or pharmaceutically acceptable excipient includes any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient its use in the therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be incorporated into the compositions.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts that retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the compounds of this invention and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. In many cases the compounds of this invention are capable of forming acid and or base salts by virtue of the presence of amino and or carboxyl groups or groups similar thereto. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts can be formed with inorganic acids and organic acids. Inorganic acids from which salts can be derived include for example hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like. Organic acids from which salts can be derived include for example acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts can be formed with inorganic and organic bases. Inorganic bases from which salts can be derived include for example sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum and the like particularly preferred are the ammonium potassium sodium calcium and magnesium salts. Organic bases from which salts can be derived include for example primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines basic ion exchange resins and the like specifically such as isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine and ethanolamine.

 Substituted alkyl aryl heteroaryl and heterocyclyl refer respectively to alkyl aryl heteroaryl and heterocyclyl wherein one or more up to about 5 preferably up to about 3 hydrogen atoms are replaced by a substituent independently selected from the group optionally substituted alkyl e.g. fluoroalkyl optionally substituted alkoxy alkylenedioxy e.g. methylenedioxy optionally substituted amino e.g. alkylamino and dialkylamino optionally substituted amidino optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted aralkyl e.g. benzyl optionally substituted aryloxy e.g. phenoxy optionally substituted aralkoxy e.g. benzyloxy carboxy COOH carboalkoxy ie. acyloxy or OOCR carboxyalkyl i.e. esters or COOR carboxamido aminocarbonyl benzyloxycarbonylamino CBZ amino cyano carbonyl halogen hydroxy optionally substituted heteroaryl optionally substituted heteroaralkyl optionally substituted heteroaryloxy optionally substituted heteroaralkoxy nitro sulfanyl sulfinyl sulfonyl and thio.

The term sulfanyl refers to the groups S optionally substituted alkyl S optionally substituted aryl S optionally substituted heteroaryl and S optionally substituted heterocyclyl .

The term sulfinyl refers to the groups S O H S O optionally substituted alkyl S O optionally substituted amino S O optionally substituted aryl S O optionally substituted heteroaryl and S O optionally substituted heterocyclyl .

The term sulfonyl refers to the groups S O H S O optionally substituted alkyl S O optionally substituted amino S O optionally substituted aryl S O optionally substituted heteroaryl S O optionally substituted heterocyclyl S O optionally substituted alkoxy S O optionally substituted aryloxy S O optionally substituted heteroaryloxy and S O optionally substituted heterocyclyloxy .

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective amount refers to that amount of a compound of Formula I that is sufficient to effect treatment as defined below when administered to a mammal in need of such treatment. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending upon the subject and disease condition being treated the weight and age of the subject the severity of the disease condition the particular compound of Formula I chosen the dosing regimen to be followed timing of administration the manner of administration and the like all of which can readily be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art.

The present invention is directed to the compounds represented by Formula I which are selective modulators of the cardiac sarcomere e.g. by stimulating or otherwise potentiating the activity of cardiac myosin as follows 

The compounds falling within the foregoing genus and its subgenera are useful as modulators of the cardiac sarcomere. Some of the compounds were obtained from commercially available compound libraries. The provisos in the claims are meant to distinguish between subject matter that is patentable as a composition of matter vs. subject matter that can be claimed based on applicants recognition of its therapeutic pharmaceutical utility.

The compounds of Formula I can be named and numbered e.g. using AutoNom version 2.1 as described below. For example the compound of Formula IA 

The compounds of the invention can be synthesized utilizing techniques well known in the art. See for example Kislitsin et al. 2000 J. Org. Chem. 65 25 8430 8438 Shkinyova et al. 2000 Tetrahedron Letters 41 25 49734975 Shevelev et al. 1995 Mendeleev Commun. 1995 4 157 8 Kamifuji et al. 1993 Jpn. Kokai Tokkyo Koho JP 05043556 and Cui 2001 German Patent Appin. No. 2000 10010002 each of which is incorporated by reference.

Unless specified to the contrary the reactions described herein take place at atmospheric pressure generally within a temperature range from 10 C. to 110 C. Further except as employed in the Examples or as otherwise specified reaction times and conditions are intended to be approximate e.g. taking place at about atmospheric pressure within a temperature range of about 10 C. to about 110 C. over a period of about 1 to about 24 hours reactions left to run overnight average a period of about 16 hours.

The terms solvent organic solvent or inert solvent each mean a solvent inert under the conditions of the reaction being described in conjunction therewith including for example benzene toluene acetonitrile tetrahydrofuran THF dimethylformamide DMF chloroform methylene chloride or dichloromethane diethyl ether methanol pyridine and the like . Unless specified to the contrary the solvents used in the reactions of the present invention are inert organic solvents.

The term q.s. means adding a quantity sufficient to achieve a stated function e.g. to bring a solution to the desired volume i.e. 100 .

Isolation and purification of the compounds and intermediates described herein can be effected if desired by any suitable separation or purification procedure such as for example filtration extraction crystallization column chromatography thin layer chromatography or thick layer chromatography or a combination of these procedures. Specific illustrations of suitable separation and isolation procedures can be had by reference to the examples hereinbelow. However other equivalent separation or isolation procedures can of course also be used.

When desired the R and S isomers may be resolved by methods known to those skilled in the art for example by formation of diastereoisomeric salts or complexes which may be separated for example by crystallisation via formation of diastereoisomeric derivatives which may be separated for example by crystallisation gas liquid or liquid chromatography selective reaction of one enantiomer with an enantiomer specific reagent for example enzymatic oxidation or reduction followed by separation of the modified and unmodified enantiomers or gas liquid or liquid chromatography in a chiral environment for example on a chiral support such as silica with a bound chiral ligand or in the presence of a chiral solvent. For example a compound of Formula I can be dissolved in a lower alkanol and placed on a Chiralpak AD 205 20 mm column Chiral Technologies Inc. conditioned for 60 min at 70 EtOAc in Hexane. It will be appreciated that where the desired enantiomer is converted into another chemical entity by one of the separation procedures described above a further step may be required to liberate the desired enantiomeric form. Alternatively specific enantiomer may be synthesized by asymmetric synthesis using optically active reagents substrates catalysts or solvents or by converting one enantiomer to the other by asymmetric transformation.

Reaction Scheme 1 illustrates synthesis of the compounds of Formula I starting from a substituted nitro benzene which is condensed with an Ralcohol optionally derivatized to introduce the Rsubstituent reduced to the corresponding amino benzene and acidified to afford Formula I.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that one or more of the reactants steps and or conditions described with reference to Reaction Scheme 1 may require adjustment to accommodate various substituents e.g. at Rto R.

The nitro benzenes of Formula 101 e.g. 3 fluoro 5 iodo nitro benzene and 3 5 difluoro nitro benzene the R alcohols of Formula 102 e.g. 4 fluoro phenol and pyridin 3 ol and the like are commercially available e.g. from Aldrich Chemical Company Milwaukee Wis. Other reactants are likewise commercially available or may be readily prepared by those skilled in the art using commonly employed synthetic methodology.

Referring to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 1 a nitro benzene of Formula 101 where X is F or NO and Y is acetyl acetylamino CF C O CH C O O alkyl CN H halo NO or the like and an alkyl aryl or heteroaryl alcohol of Formula 102 are contacted in a solvent e.g. DMF in the presence of a base e.g. KCO . The solution is stirred for 1 96 hours at room temperature to 150 C. to afford the corresponding alkoxy aryloxy or heteroaryloxy nitro benzene of Formula 103 which is conventionally isolated and purified. The compound of Formula 103 can be carried forward to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 2 or directly to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 3.

Referring to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 2 conversion of the alkoxy aryloxy or heteroaryloxy nitro benzene of Formula 103 to the corresponding R substituted nitro benzene of Formula 105 takes place with a variety of reactants generically illustrated as Formula 104 and conditions depending on the nature of R for example as follows 

Referring to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 3 a nitro benzene of Formula 105 is reduced under typical conditions e.g. Pd C with HNHCOOH or Zn HCl or SnCl . The solution is stirred for 1 48 hours at room temperature to 150 C. to afford the corresponding amino benzene of Formula 106 which is conventionally isolated and purified.

Referring to Reaction Scheme 1 Step 4 an amino benzene of Formula 106 is contacted with an aryl or heteroaryl acid or acid chloride of Formula 107 under standard amide coupling conditions that readily assessable by those skilled in the art using commonly employed synthetic methodology to afford the corresponding compound of Formula I which is conventionally isolated and purified.

Compounds prepared by the above described process of the invention can be identified e.g. by the presence of a detectable amount of Formula 106 or 107. While it is well known that pharmaceuticals must meet pharmacopoeia standards before approval and or marketing and that synthetic reagents such as 4 fluoro benzoic acid and precursors such as Formula 106 should not exceed the limits prescribed by pharmacopoeia standards final compounds prepared by a process of the present invention may have minor but detectable amounts of such materials present for example at levels in the range of 95 purity with no single impurity greater than 1 . These levels can be detected e.g. by emission spectroscopy. It is important to monitor the purity of pharmaceutical compounds for the presence of such materials which presence is additionally disclosed as a method of detecting use of a synthetic process of the invention.

A substituted amino benzene compound of Formula 106 is condensed with an aryl or heteroaryl acid or acid chloride of Formula 107 to afford the corresponding compound of Formula I.

A racemic mixture of isomers of a compound of Formula I is placed on a chromatography column and separated into R and S enantiomers.

A compound of Formula I is contacted with a pharmaceutically acceptable acid to form the corresponding acid addition salt.

A pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt of Formula I is contacted with a base to form the corresponding free base of Formula I.

Preferred for the compounds pharmaceutical formulations methods of manufacture and use of the present invention are the following combinations and permutations of substituent groups of Formula I sub grouped respectively in increasing order of preference 

Particularly preferred individually and collectively for the pharmaceutical formulations methods of manufacture and use of the present invention are the following 

More preferred individually and collectively as novel compounds of the present invention including their formulations methods of manufacture and use are the following 

The compounds of the present invention are selective for and modulate the cardiac sarcomere and are useful to bind to and or potentiate the activity of cardiac myosin increasing the rate at which myosin hydrolyzes ATP. As used in this context modulate means either increasing or decreasing myosin activity whereas potentiate means to increase activity. It has also been determined in testing representative compounds of the invention that their administration can also increase the contractile force in cardiac muscle fiber.

The compounds pharmaceutical formulations and methods of the invention are used to treat heart disease including but not limited to acute or decompensated congestive heart failure and chronic congestive heart failure particularly diseases associated with systolic heart dysfunction. Additional therapeutic utilities include administration to stabilize heart function in patients awaiting a heart transplant and to assist a stopped or slowed heart in resuming normal function following use of a bypass pump.

ATP hydrolysis is employed by myosin in the sarcomere to produce force. Therefore an increase in ATP hydrolysis would correspond to an increase in the force or velocity of muscle contraction. In the presence of actin myosin ATPase activity is stimulated 100 fold. Thus ATP hydrolysis not only measures myosin enzymatic activity but also its interaction with the actin filament. A compound that modulates the cardiac sarcomere can be identified by an increase or decrease in the rate of ATP hydrolysis by myosin preferably exhibiting a 1.4 fold increase at concentrations less than 10 M more preferably less than 1 M . Preferred assays for such activity will employ myosin from a human source although myosin from other organisms can also be used. Systems that model the regulatory role of calcium in myosin binding are also preferred.

Alternatively a biochemically functional sarcomere preparation can be used to determine in vitro ATPase activity for example as described in U.S. Ser. No. 09 539 164 filed Mar. 29 2000. The functional biochemical behavior of the sarcomere including calcium sensitivity of ATPase hydrolysis can be reconstituted by combining its purified individual components particularly including its regulatory components and myosin . Another functional preparation is the in vitro motility assay. It can be performed by adding test compound to a myosin bound slide and observing the velocity of actin filaments sliding over the myosin covered glass surface Kron S J. 1991 Methods Enzymol. 196 399 416 .

The in vitro rate of ATP hydrolysis correlates to myosin potentiating activity which can be determined by monitoring the production of either ADP or phosphate for example as described in Ser. No. 09 314 464 filed May 18 1999. ADP production can also be monitored by coupling the ADP production to NADH oxidation using the enzymes pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase and monitoring the NADH level either by absorbance or fluorescence Greengard P. 178 Part 4534 632 634 1956 1970 Jan 6 1 31 40 . Phosphate production can be monitored using purine nucleoside phosphorylase to couple phosphate production to the cleavage of a purine analog which results in either a change in absorbance 1992 Jun 1 89 11 4884 7 or fluorescence 1990 Mar 1 266 2 611 4 . While a single measurement can be employed it is preferred to take multiple measurements of the same sample at different times in order to determine the absolute rate of the protein activity such measurements have higher specificity particularly in the presence of test compounds that have similar absorbance or fluorescence properties with those of the enzymatic readout.

Test compounds can be assayed in a highly parallel fashion using multiwell plates by placing the compounds either individually in wells or testing them in mixtures. Assay components including the target protein complex coupling enzymes and substrates and ATP can then be added to the wells and the absorbance or fluorescence of each well of the plate can be measured with a plate reader.

A preferred method uses a 384 well plate format and a 25 L reaction volume. A pyruvate kinase lactate dehydrogenase coupled enzyme system Huang T G and Hackney D D. 1994 J Biol Chem 269 23 16493 16501 is used to measure the rate of ATP hydrolysis in each well. As will be appreciated by those in the art the assay components are added in buffers and reagents. Since the methods outlined herein allow kinetic measurements incubation periods are optimized to give adequate detection signals over the background. The assay is done in real time giving the kinetics of ATP hydrolysis which increases the signal to noise ratio of the assay.

Modulation of cardiac muscle fiber contractile force can be measured using detergent permeabilized cardiac fibers also referred to as skinned cardiac fibers for example as described by Haikala H et al 1995 J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 25 5 794 801. Skinned cardiac fibers retain their intrinsic sarcomeric organization but do not retain all aspects of cellular calcium cycling this model offers two advantages first the cellular membrane is not a barrier to compound penetration and second calcium concentration is controlled. Therefore any increase in contractile force is a direct measure of the test compound s effect on sarcomeric proteins. Tension measurements are made by mounting one end of the muscle fiber to a stationary post and the other end to a transducer that can measure force. After stretching the fiber to remove slack the force transducer records increased tension as the fiber begins to contract. This measurement is called the isometric tension since the fiber is not allowed to shorten. Activation of the permeabilized muscle fiber is accomplished by placing it in a buffered calcium solution followed by addition of test compound or control. When tested in this manner compounds of the invention caused an increase in force at calcium concentrations associated with physiologic contractile activity but very little augmentation of force in relaxing buffer at low calcium concentrations or in the absence of calcium the EGTA data point .

Selectivity for the cardiac sarcomere and cardiac myosin can be determined by substituting non cardiac sarcomere components and myosin in one or more of the above described assays and comparing the results obtained against those obtained using the cardiac equivalents.

Initial evaluation of in vivo activity can be determined in cellular models of myocyte contractility e.g. as described by Popping S et al 1996 Am. J. Physiol. 271 H357 H364 and Wolska B M et al 1996 Am. J. Physiol. 39 H24 H32 . One advantage of the myocyte model is that the component systems that result in changes in contractility can be isolated and the major site s of action determined. Compounds with cellular activity for example selecting compounds having the following profile 120 increase in fractional shortening over basal at 2 M limited changes in diastolic length 

The compounds of Formula I are administered at a therapeutically effective dosage e.g. a dosage sufficient to provide treatment for the disease states previously described. While human dosage levels have yet to be optimized for the compounds of the invention generally a daily dose is from about 0.05 to 100 mg kg of body weight preferably about 0.10 to 10.0 mg kg of body weight and most preferably about 0.15 to 1.0 mg kg of body weight. Thus for administration to a 70 kg person the dosage range would be about 3.5 to 7000 mg per day preferably about 7.0 to 700.0 mg per day and most preferably about 10.0 to 100.0 mg per day. The amount of active compound administered will of course be dependent on the subject and disease state being treated the severity of the affliction the manner and schedule of administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician for example a likely dose range for oral administration would be about 70 to 700 mg per day whereas for intravenous administration a likely dose range would be about 700 to 7000 mg per day the active agents being selected for longer or shorter plasma half lives respectively.

Administration of the compounds of the invention or the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof can be via any of the accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities including but not limited to orally subcutaneously intravenously intranasally topically transdermally intraperitoneally intramuscularly intrapulmonarilly vaginally rectally or intraocularly. Oral and parenteral administration are customary in treating the indications that are the subject of the present invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions include solid semi solid liquid and aerosol dosage forms such as e.g. tablets capsules powders liquids suspensions suppositories aerosols or the like. The compounds can also be administered in sustained or controlled release dosage forms including depot injections osmotic pumps pills transdermal including electrotransport patches and the like for prolonged and or timed pulsed administration at a predetermined rate. Preferably the compositions are provided in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of a precise dose.

The compounds can be administered either alone or more typically in combination with a conventional pharmaceutical carrier excipient or the like e.g. mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose sodium crosscarmellose glucose gelatin sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like . If desired the pharmaceutical composition can also contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents emulsifying agents solubilizing agents pH buffering agents and the like e.g. sodium acetate sodium citrate cyclodextrine derivatives sorbitan monolaurate triethanolamine acetate triethanolamine oleate and the like . Generally depending on the intended mode of administration the pharmaceutical formulation will contain about 0.005 to 95 preferably about 0.5 to 50 by weight of a compound of the invention. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa.

In addition the compounds of the invention can be co administered with and the pharmaceutical compositions can include other medicinal agents pharmaceutical agents adjuvants and the like. Suitable additional active agents include for example therapies that retard the progression of heart failure by down regulating neurohormonal stimulation of the heart and attempt to prevent cardiac remodeling e.g. ACE inhibitors or blockers therapies that improve cardiac function by stimulating cardiac contractility e.g. positive inotropic agents such as the adrenergic agonist dobutamine or the phosphodiesterase irihibitor milrinone and therapies that reduce cardiac preload e.g. diuretics such as furosemide .

In one preferred embodiment the compositions will take the form of a pill or tablet and thus the composition will contain along with the active ingredient a diluent such as lactose sucrose dicalcium phosphate or the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or the like and a binder such as starch gum acacia polyvinylpyrrolidine gelatin cellulose cellulose derivatives or the like. In another solid dosage form a powder marume solution or suspension e.g. in propylene carbonate vegetable oils or triglycerides is encapsulated in a gelatin capsule.

Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can for example be prepared by dissolving dispersing etc. an active compound as defined above and optional pharmaceutical adjuvants in a carrier e.g. water saline aqueous dextrose glycerol glycols ethanol or the like to form a solution or suspension. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms either as liquid solutions or suspensions as emulsions or in solid forms suitable for dissolution or suspension in liquid prior to injection. The percentage of active compound contained in such parenteral compositions is highly dependent on the specific nature thereof as well as the activity of the compound and the needs of the subject. However percentages of active ingredient of 0.01 to 10 in solution are employable and will be higher if the composition is a solid which will be subsequently diluted to the above percentages. Preferably the composition will comprise 0.2 2 of the active agent in solution.

Formulations of the active compound or a salt may also be administered to the respiratory tract as an aerosol or solution for a nebulizer or as a microfine powder for insufflation alone or in combination with an inert carrier such as lactose. In such a case the particles of the formulation have diameters of less than 50 microns preferably less than 10 microns.

Generally to employ the compounds of the invention in a method of screening for myosin binding myosin is bound to a support and a compound of the invention is added to the assay. Alternatively the compound of the invention can be bound to the support and the myosin added. Classes of compounds among which novel binding agents may be sought include specific antibodies non natural binding agents identified in screens of chemical libraries peptide analogs etc. Of particular interest are screening assays for candidate agents that have a low toxicity for human cells. A wide variety of assays may be used for this purpose including labeled in vitro protein protein binding assays electrophoretic mobility shift assays immunoassays for protein binding functional assays phosphorylation assays etc. and the like. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 495 337 incorporated herein by reference.

The following examples serve to more fully describe the manner of using the above described invention as well as to set forth the best modes contemplated for carrying out various aspects of the invention. It is understood that these examples in no way serve to limit the true scope of this invention but rather are presented for illustrative purposes. All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A solution of 1 equivalent eq. 25.42 g 131.6 mmol of 1 3 dinitro 5 cyanobenzene in 1.75 M DMF 75 mL 1 eq. 3 hydroxypyridine 12.52 g 131.6 mmol and 2 eq. potassium carbonate 36.38 g 263 mmol was heated to 60 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was warmed to 95 C. for an additional 48 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with HO sat. NaHCO and brine dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by chromatography over silica with 25 EtOAC Hexane as the eluant afforded 10.04 g of the desired compound of Formula 103 3 pyridin 3 yloxy 5 cyano 1 nitrobenzene as a solid 32 yield .

To a solution of 1 eq. 5.5 g 22.8 mmol of 3 pyridin 3 yloxy 5 cyano 1 nitrobenzene 0.23 M in EtOH 100 mL was added 3 eq. of tin II chloride 15.5 g 68 mmol and the resultant mixture stirred under a nitrogen atmosphere at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 100 mL and the pH adjusted to 9 by the addition of saturated NaCO. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 3 times the combined organic layers dried NaSO and conc. in vacuo. Purification by chromatography over silica with 2 MeOH CHClas the eluant afforded 1.09 g of the desired compound of Formula 103 3 pyridin 3 yloxy 5 cyano aniline as a solid 23 yield .

To a solution of 1 eq. 0.1 g 0.473 mmol of 3 pyridin 3 yloxy 5 cyano aniline in 0.47 M in CHCl 1 mL and 1.6 eq. of pyridine 0.56 g 0.71 mmol was added 3 eq. of 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride 0.225 g 1.42 mmol and the resultant mixture stirred at rt overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl washed with sat. NaHCO dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. The resultant residue was diluted with toluene and concentrated in vacuo 5 times . Purification by chromatography over silica with 5 MeOH CHClas the eluant afforded 134 mg of a the desired title compound of Formula I N 3 cyano 5 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl 4 fluoro benzamide as a solid 85 yield . Mpt 169 172 C. MS M 1 332.3.

A mixture of 1 eq. 175 mg 0.402 mmol of 4 fluoro N 3 iodo 5 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl benzamide 1.15 eq. 170 mg 0.463 mmol of 2 tributyltinpyridine and 0.04 eq. 11 mg 0.10 mmol of bis triphenylphosphine dichloropalladium in 2 mL of THF was irradiated for in a microwave for 10 minutes an 170 C. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by chromatography over silica with 50 EtOAC Hexane to 75 EtOAc Hexane as the gradient eluant afforded 30 mg of a solid 4 fluoro N 3 pyridin 2 yl 5 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl benzamide 19 yield . Mpt 160 162 C. MS M 1 386.1.

Similarly by following the procedures of Examples 1 and or 2 and e.g. substituting the 1 3 dinitro 5 cyanobenzene 3 hydroxypyridine 4 fluorobenzoyl chloride and or 2 tributyltinpyridine as described in connection with Reaction Scheme 1 there were obtained 

Dose responses are measured using a calcium buffered pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase coupled ATPase assay containing the following reagents concentrations expressed are final assay concentrations Potassium PIPES 12 mM MgCl 2 mM ATP 1 mM DTT 1 mM BSA 0.1 mg ml NADH 0.5 mM PEP 1.5 mM pyruvate kinase 4 U ml lactate dehydrogenase 8 U ml and antifoam 90 ppm . The pH is adjusted to 6.80 at 22 C. by addition of potassium hydroxide. Calcium levels are controlled by a buffering system containing 0.6 mM EGTA and varying concentrations of calcium to achieve a free calcium concentration of 1 10M to 1 10M.

The protein components specific to this assay are bovine cardiac myosin subfragment 1 typically 0.5 M bovine cardiac actin 14 M bovine cardiac tropomyosin typically 3 M and bovine cardiac troponin typically 3 8 M . The exact concentrations of tropomyosin and troponin are determined empirically by titration to achieve maximal difference in ATPase activity when measured in the presence of 1 mM EGTA versus that measured in the presence of 0.2 mM CaCl. The exact concentration of myosin in the assay is also determined empirically by titration to achieve a desired rate of ATP hydrolysis. This varies between protein preparations due to variations in the fraction of active molecules in each preparation.

Compound dose responses are typically measured at the calcium concentration corresponding to 50 of maximal ATPase activity pCa so a preliminary experiment is performed to test the response of the ATPase activity to free calcium concentrations in the range of 1 10M to 1 10M. Subsequently the assay mixture is adjusted to the pCas typically 3 10M . Assays are performed by first preparing a dilution series of test compound each with an assay mixture containing potassium Pipes MgCl BSA DTT pyruvate kinase lactate dehydrogenase myosin subfragment 1 antifoam EGTA CaCl and water. The assay is started by adding an equal volume of solution containing potassium Pipes MgCl BSA DTT ATP NADH PEP actin tropomyosin troponin antifoam and water. ATP hydrolysis is monitored by absorbance at 340 nm. The resulting dose response curve is fit by the 4 parameter equation y Bottom Top Bottom 1 EC50 X Hill . The AC1.4 is defined as the concentration at which ATPase activity is 1.4 fold higher than the bottom of the dose curve.

When tested as described above compounds of Formula I show activity as potentiators of cardiac myosin.

Adult male Sprague Dawley rats are anesthetized with a mixture of isoflurane gas and oxygen. Hearts are quickly excised rinsed and the ascending aorta cannulated. Continuous retrograde perfusion is initiated on the hearts at a perfusion pressure of 60 cm HO. Hearts are first perfused with a nominally Ca free modified Krebs solution of the following composition 110 mM NaCl 2.6 mM KCL 1.2 mM KHPO7 HO 1.2 mM MgSO 2.1 mM NaHCO 11 mM glucose and 4 mM Hepes all Sigma . This medium is not recirculated and is continually gassed with O. After approximately 3 minutes the heart is perfused with modified Krebs buffer supplemented with 3.3 collagenase 169 mg activity Class II Worthington Biochemical Corp. Freehold N.J. and 25 M final calcium concentration until the heart becomes sufficiently blanched and soft. The heart is removed from the cannulae the atria and vessels discarded and the ventricles are cut into small pieces. The myocytes are dispersed by gentle agitation of the ventricular tissue in fresh collagenase containing Krebs prior to being gently forced through a 200 m nylon mesh in a 50 cc tube. The resulting myocytes are resuspended in modified Krebs solution containing 25 m calcium. Myocytes are made calcium tolerant by addition of a calcium solution 100 mM stock at 10 minute intervals until 100 M calcium is achieved. After 30 minutes the supernatant is discarded and 30 50 ml of Tyrode buffer 137 mM NaCL 3.7 mM KCL 0.5 mM MgCL 11 mM glucose 4 mM Hepes and 1.2 mM CaCl pH 7.4 is added to cells. Cells are kept for 60 min at 37 C. prior to initiating experiments and used within 5 hrs of isolation.

Aliquots of Tyrode buffer containing myocytes are placed in perfusion chambers series 20 RC 27NE Warner Instruments complete with heating platforms. Myocytes are allowed to attach the chambers heated to 37 C. and the cells then perfused with 37 C. Tyrode buffer. Myocytes are field stimulated at 1 Hz in with platinum electrodes 20 above threshold . Only cells that have clear striations and are quiescent prior to pacing are used for contractility experiments. To determine basal contractility myocytes are imaged through a 40 objective and using a variable frame rate 60 240 Hz charge coupled device camera the images are digitized and displayed on a computer screen at a sampling speed of 240 Hz. Frame grabber myopacer acquisition and analysis software for cell contractility are available from IonOptix Milton Ma. . After a minimum 5 minute basal contractility period test compounds 0.01 15 M are perfused on the myocytes for 5 minutes. After this time fresh Tyrode buffer is perfused to determine compound washout characteristics. Using edge detection strategy contractility of the myocytes and contraction and relaxation velocities are continuously recorded.

Three or more individual myocytes are tested per compound using two or more different myocyte preparations. For each cell ten or more contractility transients at basal defined as 1 min. prior to compound infusion and at 5 min. after compound addition are averaged and compared. These average transients are analyzed to determine changes in diastolic length and using the lonwizard analysis program IonOptix fractional shortening decrease in the diastolic length and maximum contraction and relaxation velocities m sec are determined. Analysis of individual cells are combined. Increase in fractional shortening over basal indicates potentiation of myocyte contractility.

Male Sprague Dawley rats from Charles River Laboratories 275 350 g are used for bolus efficacy and infusion studies. Heart failure animals are described below. They are housed two per cage and have access to food and water ad libitum. There is a minimum three day acclimation period prior to experiments.

Animals are anesthetized with isoflurane and maintained within a surgical plane throughout the procedure. Core body temperature is maintained at 37 C. by using a heating pad. Once anesthetized animals are shaven and hair remover is applied to remove all traces of fur from the chest area. The chest area is further prepped with 70 ETOH and ultrasound gel is applied. Using a GE System Vingmed ultrasound system General Electric Medical Systems a 10 MHz probe is placed on the chest wall and images are acquired in the short axis view at the level of the papillary muscles. 2 D M mode images of the left ventricle are taken prior to and after compound bolus injection or infusion. In vivo fractional shortening end diastolic diameter end systolic diameter end diastolic diameter 100 is determined by analysis of the M mode images using the GE EchoPak software program.

For bolus injection rats are treated as described above. Five pre dose M Mode images are taken at 30 second intervals prior to bolus injection or infusion of compounds. After injection M mode images are taken at 30 second intervals up to 10 minutes and every minute or at five minute intervals thereafter. Bolus injection or infusion is via the tail vein. Infusion parameters are determined from pharmacokinetic profiles of specific compounds.

Male Sprague Dawley CD 220 225 g Charles River rats are used in this experiment. Animals are allowed free access to water and commercial rodent diet under standard laboratory conditions. Room temperature is maintained at 20 23 C. and room illumination is on a 12 12 hour light dark cycle. Animals are acclimatized to the laboratory environment 5 to 7 days prior to the study. The animals are fasted overnight prior to surgery.

Animals are anaesthetized with ketamine xylazine 95 mg kg and 5 mg kg and intubated with a 14 16 gauge modified intravenous catheter. Anesthesia level is checked by toe pinch. Core body temperature is maintained at 37 C. by using a heating blanket. The surgical area is clipped and scrubbed. The animal is placed in right lateral recumbency and initially placed on a ventilator with a peak inspiratory pressure of 10 15 cm HO and respiratory rate 60 110 breaths min. 100 Ois delivered to the animals by the ventilator. The surgical site is scrubbed with surgical scrub and alcohol. An incision is made over the rib cage at the 4 5intercostal space. The underlying muscles are dissected with care to avoid the lateral thoracic vein to expose the intercostal muscles. The chest cavity is entered through 4 5intercostal space and the incision expanded to allow visualization of the heart. The pericardium is opened to expose the heart. A 6 0 silk suture with a taper needle is passed around the left coronary artery near its origin which lies in contact with the left margin of the pulmonary cone at about 1 mm from the insertion of the left auricular appendage. The left coronary artery is occluded by tying the suture around the artery LCO . Sham animals are treated the same except that the suture is not tied. The incision is closed in three layers. The rat is ventilated until able to ventilate on its own. The rats are extubated and allowed to recover on a heating pad. Animals receive buprenorphine 0.01 0.05 mg kg SQ for post operative analgesia. Once awake they are returned to their cage. Animals are monitored daily for signs of infection or distress. Infected or moribund animals are euthanized. Animals are weighed once a week.

Six weeks after surgery rats are scanned for signs of myocardial infarction using ultrasound as described above. Only those animals with decreased fractional shortening compared to sham rats are utilized in efficacy experiments. In all experiments there are four groups sham vehicle sham compound LCO vehicle and LCO compound. At 7 12 weeks post LCO rats receive a bolus injection or are infused with test compound. As in Example 6 five pre dose M Mode images are taken at 30 second intervals prior to bolus injection or infusion of compound. After injection M mode images are taken at 30 second intervals up to 10 minutes and thereafter every minute or at five minute intervals. Fractional shortening is determined from the M mode images. Comparisons between the pre dose fractional shortening and post compound treatment are performed by ANOVA and a post hoc Student Newman Keuls with the StatView statistical program SAS Institute . A p value 

While the present invention has been described with reference to the specific embodiments thereof it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation material composition of matter process process step or steps to the objective spirit and scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claims appended hereto. All patents and publications cited above are hereby incorporated by reference.

