---

title: System and methods for on-demand document provisioning using ad hoc networking
abstract: A method of providing data content obtained from one or more network-connected nodes to a mobile computing device is provided. The method includes determining whether a previously-established network connection between the mobile computing device and a network-connected node has been interrupted after the mobile computing device receives a first set of data content and an identifier corresponding to a second set of data content from the network-connected node via the previously-established network connection. The method also includes establishing a wireless connection between the mobile computing device and another computing device if the previously-established network connection has been interrupted and the second set of data content is stored by the other computing device. The method further includes conveying the second set of data content to the mobile computing device from the other computing device via the wireless connection if the previously-established network connection has been interrupted and the second set of data content is stored at the other computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860491&OS=07860491&RS=07860491
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07860491
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061211
---
The present invention is related to the field of data communications and more particularly to providing a mobile computing device access to data content stored at a data communications network node.

Computer users seeking access to information over the Internet or other data communications network typically encountered difficulties getting the desired information unless the user were able to connect the computer to a data communications network using a fixed wireline connection. More recently however a clear trend in information technology has emerged that of wireless connectivity. Wireless connectivity not only relieves computer users of the need for fixed wireline connections but has complemented the development of ever smaller more sophisticated mobile computing devices. Beginning with the laptop computer and continuing with devices such as the personal digital assistant PDA and the smartphone a user is able to access vast amounts of information over the Internet or other data communications network using sophisticated devices that are small enough be held carried or even worn like an article of clothing by the user.

A persistent obstacle however is that a mobile computing device user seeking access to a data communications network such as the Internet typically must first find a connection point such as a wired local area network or a WiFi hotspot to wirelessly connect to in order to access the data communications network. Even with the advent of so called broadband cards wireless network adapters for laptops PDAs and cellphones that provide cellular data transmission a user still needs to locate a connection point to access the data communications network. Without an adequate signaling channel the user is still not able to gain access to the network.

One approach to the problem is to cache an expanded amount of data content such as multiple Web pages while the user is connected to the Internet or other data communications network. The intent of the approach is to allow a user after the wireless connection is interrupted due to the loss or attenuation of the wireless signal to still be able to navigate through the cached data content as though the user were connected to the network. However the typical mobile computing device especially a hand held device has limited data caching capabilities. Because it cannot be known beforehand which of a wide array of data content the user is likely to access next during an on line session the usefulness of this approach is correspondingly limited.

Accordingly there is a need for a mechanism by which the user of a mobile computing device can access data content after a wireless connection to a data communications network has been interrupted. More particularly there is a need for an effective and efficient mechanism whereby a user who is in the midst of an on line session can retrieve additional information as though the user were still network connected even though a previously established wireless connection has been interrupted.

The present invention is directed to a system and related methods for providing to a mobile computing device data content obtained from one or more possibly but not necessarily network connected nodes after an initial connection between the computing device and a network connected node has been interrupted. One aspect of the invention is that of providing a proxy or interceptor that intervenes when a network session is interrupted so as to provide data content to the mobile computing device when a connection to a data communications network on ramp is no longer available. Additionally the invention provides a mechanism that acting as a kind of proxy server can request the data from the cache or memory of a computing device so as to provide requested data content to another mobile computing device when the other computing device is unable to access data content via an actual data communications network.

One embodiment of the invention is a system for providing data content obtained from one or more possibly network connected nodes to a computing device after the computing device has lost a connection to the network. The system can include a connection interrupt module contained within the computing device. The connection interrupt module can be configured to determine whether a previously established network connection between the computing device and a network connected node has been interrupted after the computing device receives a first set of data content and at least one identifier corresponding to a second set of data content from the network connected node via the previously established network connection.

Additionally the system can include a connection request module also contained with the computing device. The connection request module can be configured to generate a request for the second set of data content when a user of the computing device selects the at least one identifier after the previously established network connection has been interrupted.

The system further can include a wireless interface contained with the computing device. The wireless interface can be configured to wirelessly transmit the request for the second set of data content. Additionally the wireless interface can be configured to receive the second set of data content from the other computing device if the second set of data content is stored by the other computing device.

Another embodiment of the invention is a system for responding to a request for data content the request being received from a computing device that has received a first set of data content and at least one identifier corresponding to a second set of data content from a network connected node before a previously established network connection has been interrupted. The system can include a request response module configured to respond to a request for the second set of data content by determining whether the second set of data content is stored in the cache or memory of a computing device on which the system resides. If the second set of data content is stored in the cache or memory the second set of data content can be conveyed wirelessly to the requesting computing device from the device on which the system resides.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a system that residing on a single device includes a subsystem for obtaining data from another device if the system loses a connection to a data communications network after receiving via a previously established connection to a network connected node a first set of data content and at least one identifier associated with a second set of data content. The system further includes an additional subsystem for responding to a request from another computing device that has received a first set of data content and at least one identifier corresponding to a second set of data content before a previously established network connection between the other computing device and a network connected node has been interrupted.

Still another embodiment of the invention is a method for providing data content obtained from one or more network connected nodes to a mobile computing device having lost a connection to a data communications network. The method can include determining whether a previously established network connection between the mobile computing device and a network connected node has been interrupted after the mobile computing device receives a first set of data content and at least one identifier corresponding to a second set of data both having been obtained from the network connected node via the previously established network connection.

The method can further include establishing a wireless connection between the mobile computing device and another computing device if the previously established network connection has been interrupted and if a user selects the at least one identifier. Additionally the method can include conveying the second set of data content to the mobile computing device from the other computing device via the wireless connection if the second set of data content is stored at the other computing device.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of searching data content stored in the memory or cache of a computing device in response to a wireless request received from a computing device that has experienced an interruption in a previously established connection with a data communications network after receiving a first set of data content and at least one identifier associated with a second set of data content. The method according to a particular embodiment can include searching a plurality of different identifiers corresponding to data content accessed by the computing device within a predetermined period prior to receiving request from the other computing device. Moreover the request itself can contain the at least one identifier that provides a basis for searching the stored data content.

The invention is directed to a system and methods for providing data content obtained from one or more network connected nodes to a mobile computing device after an initial connection to a network node has been interrupted. One aspect of the system is that it can function as a proxy or interceptor that intervenes when a network session is interrupted so as to provide data content to the mobile computing device when a connection to a data communications network has been lost. Alternately the system can function as proxy server to provide data content to another mobile computing device when the other computing device is unable to access data content via the data communications network.

The mobile communications device for example can be a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a device combining the functions of a cellular or mobile phone with those of a handheld computer such as a smartphone or another type of device having the capabilities to effect an exchange of packetized data over a packet switched network. The exemplary network node can be a network connected device such as a server or other application specific computer or even a general purpose computer having the capabilities to exchange data packets over a packet switched network. The various devices shown can connect to the data communications network through wireline and or wireless connections. Accordingly the data communications network can comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless local area network WLAN or the Internet.

Initially at time t the mobile computing device is communicatively linked to the network node via a previously established connection to the data communications network . As already noted the mobile computing device can be connected to the data communications network through a wireline connection or alternatively through a wireless channel such as by connecting to the network through a wireless access point or WiFi hotspot. Although the mobile computing device is shown as being communicatively linked to the network connected node through the data communications network which can comprise one or more intermediate nodes it will be readily apparent that the computing device alternatively can communicate directly through a wireline or wireless connection with the network connected node. The system as described herein can function equally effectively and efficiently regardless of the whether the mobile computing device connects directly to the network connected node or through the data communications network .

Illustratively the mobile computing device obtains a first set of data content from the network connected node via the previously established connection existing at time t. At time t t t however the previously established connection is interrupted. This can be a result of different types of events occurring. For example the mobile computing device can be a laptop computer initially communicating to the network connected node through a wireline connection to the data communications network . The previously established connection can be interrupted when the user of the laptop computer disconnects and moves to a new location with the laptop computer. Another example of an event giving rise to a network connection interruption is a user s communicating with a network connected node using as the mobile computing device a smartphone. The previously established wireless connection between the user s smartphone and the network node can be interrupted when for example the user moves to a new location where wireless signals are obstructed or a location that is out of range of the wireless connection to the data communications network . Regardless of the nature of the event resulting in an interruption of the previously established connection the system residing on the mobile computing device becomes operative when the connection is lost and handles the interruption as described herein.

The first set of data content received by the mobile computing device from the network connected node can include at least one identifier associated with a second set of data content that is also stored at the network connected node. For example if the network connected node is a Web server and the first set of data content is a Web page the at least one identifier can be a link associated with one or more other Web pages i.e. the second set of data content . Because the at least one identifier can be stored in a memory not shown of the mobile computing device a user would be able to access the second set of data content by selecting the at least one identifier were the device still communicatively linked to the network connected node . However when the previously established connection is interrupted the user is unable to access the second set of data content even though the at least one identifier associated with the second set of data content remains stored at the mobile computing device . At this point the system functioning as a proxy or interceptor intervenes to provide data content to the mobile computing device as though the device were still connected to the node via the data communications network .

Referring additionally now to the system according to one embodiment includes a connection interrupt module a connection request module and a wireless interface that are each communicatively linked to one another and that function cooperatively in providing the second set of data content associated with the at least one identifier after the previously established connection is interrupted. The connection interrupt module connection request module and wireless interface can be implemented as software code that is stored in a memory not shown and configured to execute on a processor or microprocessor also not shown of the mobile computing device . Alternatively one or more of the connection interrupt module connection request module and wireless interface can be implemented in dedicated hardwired circuitry configured to connect with other circuitry contained within the mobile computing device . According to still another embodiment one or more of the connection interrupt module connection request module and wireless interface can be implemented in a combination of software code and hardwired circuitry.

Accordingly in one embodiment the system can be implemented as a plugin or other extension of an existing browser configured to execute on the mobile computing device the extension operating through an application programming interface API . In an alternate embodiment the system can be software code incorporated into the browser.

Operatively the connection interrupt module determines whether a previously established network connection between the mobile computing device and a network connected node has been interrupted. According to a particular embodiment the connection interrupt module monitors or observes the previously established network connection and begins a count or timer when or soon after the connection is lost. If the duration that the previously established network connection has been interrupted exceeds a predetermined threshold then the connection interrupt module determines that the connection has been irreparably interrupted and signals the connection request module to invoke the functions performed by the latter module.

The connection interrupt module can observe the connection continuously or intermittently once the connection is initially established. If the connection interrupt module observes the connection intermittently then the connection can be observed at regular or periodic intervals. Alternatively the connection interrupt module can observe the connection randomly at varying time intervals. According to still another embodiment when the network connected node is a server the connection interrupt module can monitor the state of the connection the state being either a server available state or a server not available state. If the connection interrupt module observes that the server cannot be accessed then again the module can generate a signal that invokes the functions performed by the connection request module .

The connection request module when invoked generates a message requesting the second set of data content. The connection request module is invoked if the previously established network connection has been interrupted and if a user of the mobile computing device selects the at least one identifier such as through a point and click operation performed on the identifier as it is displayed on a graphic interface not shown of the mobile computing device.

According to a particular embodiment the message or request generated by the connection request module is transmitted by the wireless interface at time t t t t the message requesting a connection with another computing device. If another computing device which itself can be a mobile device or alternatively a fixed device having wireless communication capabilities is within a sufficient range to communicate wirelessly with the mobile computing device the message is received by the other computing device. The wireless interface can be configured to transmit and receive various types of electromagnetic signals for effecting wireless communications. For example the electromagnetic signals utilized can comprise radio signal microwave signals or infrared signals. Accordingly the wireless interface can be implemented using wireless fidelity WiFi technology short range radio signals according to the Bluetooth specification infrared signaling or other networking technologies for wirelessly linking the mobile computing device and at least one other device.

The message or request can include the at least one identifier . Accordingly when the message is received by the other computing device the other computing device can determine whether it has stored in its memory or cache a copy of the second set of data content associated with the at least one identifier . For example if the connection request module is requesting a Web page or document the message can comprise an HTTP request which is broadcasted over all active network ports and moreover can include a reserved IP address.

In an alternate embodiment however the connection request module can delay conveying the at least one identifier via the wireless interface until a response from the other computing device has been received. In any event the other computing device need not respond at all to wireless signals transmitted by the mobile computing device unless the device receives an identifier associated with data content sought by the mobile computing device and based upon the identifier determines that a copy of the data content is stored in the device s memory or cache.

If the second set of data content is available from the other computing device the wireless interface receives wireless signals encoded with the second set of data content. The wireless interface decodes the signals so that other processing modules not shown can present the data content to the user via a user interface also not shown. Accordingly if the previously established network connection has been interrupted and if the user selects the at least one identifier identifying data content that the other computing device can supply the requested second set of data content via the wireless interface . Optionally the connection request module can be further configured to generate a content not available message if a response to the message or request for the second set of data content transmitted at time tis not received within a predetermined period of time.

The system illustratively includes a wireless interface through which a request for data content wirelessly transmitted by another computing device is received. Additionally the system illustratively includes a request response module that is invoked when such a request is received. In response to the request the request response module identifies the particular data content requested based upon a content identifier received from the other computing device. The request response module searches a cache or other memory residing with the system on the computing device to determine whether the requested data content is contained therein.

According to a particular embodiment the received request is an HTTP request that can be broadcasted over each active network port of a requesting computing device. The request response module can thus be configured to observe all active network ports for HTTP requests. Indeed the server module can function in the manner of a conventional server providing a proxy or substitute server when the other computing device has experienced an interruption in a connection to a network connected server. If an HTTP request is observed therefore the server module can determine the data content that is being requested by examining a domain name contained in the request.

Additionally the request response module can be configured to search for requested data content by examining a plurality of different identifiers corresponding to different data content accessed by the computing device within a predetermined period prior to the computing device receiving from the other computing device the request containing the at least one identifier. Thus when the received request is an HTTP request the request response module knows what data content has been recently viewed by a user of the computing device and thus can efficiently determine what data content is currently stored in the cache of the device. If the recently viewed data content corresponds to a domain name in the HTTP request then the request response module can determine whether a particular page from the identified domain is stored in the cache . If so then the request response module can respond to the request by transmitting the page via the wireless interface to the other computing device requesting the content.

As described the system for responding at one computing device to a request from another computing device is distinct from the system for requesting data content after a connection to a data communications network has been interrupted. According to another embodiment of the invention however these distinct systems can be combined into a single system residing on a single computing device. Such a system is schematically illustrated in . The system illustratively comprises two distinct subsystems that function in alternate situations.

One of the subsystems is a requesting subsystem that operates to obtain data from another computing device when the device on which the system resides has lost a connection to a data communications network after having received a first set of data content and at least one identifier associated with a second set of data content. The requesting subsystem illustratively includes a connection interrupt module . The connection interrupt module operates to determine whether a previously established network connection between the device on which system resides and a network connected node has been interrupted after the device receives the first set of data content and at least one identifier corresponding to the second set of data content from the network connected node.

The requesting subsystem further includes a connection request module . The connection request module operates to generate a request for the second set of data content when a user of the computing device selects the at least one identifier and the previously established network connection has been interrupted. The message is transmitted via a wireless interface that is part of the device on which the system resides. If the second set of data content is available at another computing device within the vicinity then the second set of data content can be received at the wireless interface as a encoded wireless signals transmitted by the other computing device.

The other subsystem is a responding subsystem for responding to a request for data content received from another computing device that has experienced an interruption to a previously established connection to a data communications network. The responding system illustratively comprises a request response module that determines whether a requested set of data content is stored at the computing device in response to a request conveyed in a wireless signal from the other computing device. The request response module determines whether a requested set of data content is stored at the computing device by searching a cache or other memory of the device on which the system resides.

As already described the request response module can be configured to determine whether a requested set of data content is stored at the computing device by searching a plurality of different identifiers each corresponding to different data content accessed by the other computing device within a predetermined period prior to the computing device receiving from the other computing device the request containing the at least one identifier. The responding subsystem can utilize the same wireless interface utilized by the requesting subsystem to receive a request for data content and to respond to the request if it is determined that the data content is stored in the cache or memory of the device.

At block decision block a determination is made as to whether the second set of data content is stored at the other computing device. If so then at step the second set of data content is conveyed to the mobile computing device from the other computing device via the wireless connection. The method illustratively concludes at step .

The determination at decision block as to whether or not the previously established network connection has been interrupted according to one embodiment can be effected by determining that a duration in which the previously established network connection has been interrupted exceeds a predetermined threshold. The predetermined threshold optionally can be a variable threshold.

According to another embodiment the step of establishing the wireless connection can include wirelessly broadcasting a request from the mobile computing device initially requesting that a connection be established between the computing device and another computing device within the vicinity. The request optionally can contain the at least one identifier. Alternatively the request can be conveyed as a separate wireless message after receiving an acknowledgment from another computing device.

According to still another embodiment the step of establishing the wireless connection can comprise broadcasting via wireless signals a request for such peer interaction. Additionally or alternatively the step of establishing a wireless connection can comprises broadcasting at each active network port an HTTP request. Optionally the method can further include generating a content not available message at the mobile computing device if a response to the request is not received within a predetermined period of time.

Another method aspect of the invention is that of searching data content stored in the memory or cache of a computing device in response to a wireless request received from a computing device that has experienced an interruption in a previously established connection with a data communications network after receiving a first set of data content and at least one identifier associated with a second set of data content. The method according to a particular embodiment can include searching a plurality of different identifiers corresponding to data content accessed by the computing device within a predetermined period prior to receiving request from the other computing device. Moreover the request itself can contain the at least one identifier that provides a basis for searching the stored data content.

As described above the invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The invention also can be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

The foregoing description of preferred embodiments of the invention have been presented for the purposes of illustration. The description is not intended to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Indeed modifications and variations will be readily apparent from the foregoing description. Accordingly it is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by the detailed description provided herein.

