---

title: Method for automatic information capturing of communication events
abstract: This invention provides a method for automatically integrating and assembling the timestamp of a communication event with the identification of the communicating parties and available event attributes, presenting prompts for user entries on a terminal or interface device, storing user annotated information related to said communication event, and transmitting saved information of said communication events to another terminal device or information system. The invention also relates to a computer program, a device, and a system encapsulating computer programs realizing the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07894583&OS=07894583&RS=07894583
owner: Elmobile Inc.
number: 07894583
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060816
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 595 940 filed Aug. 19 2005 entitled Method for Automatic Information Capturing of Communication Events which application is incorporated in its entirety by reference as if fully set forth herein.

This invention relates to a method for automatic information capturing of communication events and executing user policy associated with the event on a terminal or interface device and transmitted to related information system. This invention relates to a computer program and device implementing the method. Additionally this invention relates to a system encapsulating computer programs implementing the method.

Mobile devices have separate lists of call and message events. It is cumbersome for users to transfer such information to journal even on the same mobile device. As mobile devices play more crucial role in personal and professional communication mobile users need automatic logger to capture organize and transfer such events with editable attributes or information to calendar agenda or bulletin on mobile device for record keeping and improves work efficiency.

Although each voice call or mobile message is logged by the mobile device the information is kept separately in different categories outside of user s calendar. Currently mobile device user needs to look for a category record specific date time abstract of the correspondence and to manually transfer all related information of a call or message to a specific program. Such manual process is error prone and time consuming for a user who needs efficient information capture from a mobile device.

With fast development of network speed and versatile device functionality conventional communication events such as call messaging broadcasting documentation transmittal etc. can be realized on any terminal device with network connectivity and relevant communication applications. On certain communication systems containing several types of terminal devices vital information related to a communication event is assembled from different sources in a fragmented process similar to the scenario in mobile devices indicated above. As more information and entities are involved in a communication event automatic integration of communication events with corresponding information achieves reliability and efficiency.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to provide a method in which caller identification CallerID or Return Address of the communicating parties are automatically captured and integrated with timestamp of the communication event to an entry page on a terminal device prompting for user preference and annotation. An embodiment of the invention is for a custom built application working with native communication procedural interface components of the terminal device and with contact data to obtain caller identification in a human understandable format e.g. caller s name or phone number or email address etc.

In order to accomplish the above object an embodiment of the present invention is automatically combining the human understandable caller identity with a timestamp local to the terminal device. Integrated information is presented to the mobile user with prompts in textual voice or multimedia format requesting for optional annotation to this communication event.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is automatically including available attributes of the communication event in human recognizable formats in conjunction with rendering prompts for user s annotation to the communication event. In an embodiment event attributes such as voice or message type can be captured from native components on the terminal device in textual vocal and multimedia formats.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention the automatically generated user prompts are in various forms such as commands open questions menus options etc. to best represent the characteristics of the custom built application. An embodiment of the invention automates communication event generation for mobile device users to save to custom applications such as calendar agenda bulletin etc. for further data or information processing.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method for automatically integrating and storing user annotations to the communication event with event timestamp contact identifications and related event attributes.

In order to accomplish the above object an embodiment of the invention automates the incorporating of user annotation such as key words labels memos etc. captured by the user prompts with the communication event in a custom built application. Various formats of user annotations can be utilized for best efficiency in a custom built application. The second embodiment of the invention can be a voice based application which integrates a communication event with audio annotation from user and saves the annotated event to the terminal device. Stored event information can be retrieved automatically to a speech project management system without further manipulation from the user.

Another object of the invention is to provide a method for automatically retrieving and transmitting of the stored augmented information of the communication event to current or secondary devices and systems through various network connections.

In an embodiment of the invention saved communication events can be viewed edited and transferred from the terminal device by a data processing application a component or means performing tasks such as searching and archiving to a remote server via a network connection.

There is a computer program implementing the invention comprises integrating and assembling the timestamp of a communication event with the identification of the communicating parties and available event attributes presenting prompts for user entries on a terminal or interface device storing user annotated information related to said communication event and transmitting saved information of said communication events to another terminal device or information system for data processing purpose.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention there is a provided software product that comprises a method for integrating and assembling the timestamp of a communication event with the identification of the communicating parties and available event attributes presenting prompts for user entries or automatic notification of said communication event storing information related to said communication event on interface devices and or information servers transmitting saved information of said communication events to another terminal device or information system for data processing purpose.

The device implementing the invention comprises means for integrating and assembling the timestamp of a communication event with the identification of the communicating parties and available event attributes for presenting prompts for user entries or automatic notification of said event for storing information related to said communication event for transmitting stored data of said communication events to another terminal device or information system for data processing purpose.

The system encapsulating computer programs implementing the invention comprises integrating and assembling the timestamp of a communication event with the identification of the communicating parties and available event attributes presenting prompts for user entries or automatic notification of said event storing information related to said event on persistent storage transmitting stored information of said communication events to another terminal device or information system for data processing purpose.

Hereinafter certain embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings only details necessary for understanding the invention are shown. Also in the following description of the present invention a detailed description of known functions and configurations which are evident for anyone skilled in the art will be omitted in order to emphasize the characteristics of the invention.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention illustrated in a functional block diagram of the method is implemented on a communication terminal device. A user establishes a telephony communication event on the first terminal device with one or plurality of second terminal devices through a communication network. On the first terminal device there is a commonly available telephony module which retrieves the communication or call status extracts the message body or content of the communication and obtains the caller identification caller ID of other calling parties if available. The commonly available telephony module can be a caller ID box or an Application Programming Interface API for on device software. Another on device universal timer module extracts the time of the communication event.

Information such as call status caller ID s and time stamp of the communication event are passed from the telephony and timer modules to a telephony extraction module to invoke the event driven information capturing and annotation process . Generic caller ID s and time stamps are converted to formats related to the target applications also . In the preferred embodiment of the invention converted caller ID s are phone numbers for a phone book and the time stamp is adjusted to the local time zone for a calendar .

Separately the user can select policy or settings which constitute a target application with desired features available on the first terminal device . As shown in the preferred embodiment of the invention such application can be a customized organizer which integrates phone book calendar and note pad available on the first terminal device.

The user s selection of policy is assembled and processed through a data extraction interface which interacts with various stand alone applications. In the preferred embodiment of the invention processed user policy is stored as custom application settings .

As the in progress status of the communication event is detected the information and policy process module collects policy settings related application data caller ID s and time stamp related to the communication event. At the end of the communication event the user is notified and prompted with collected information and entries for further annotation or selection .

If user annotates the communication event with additional information and saves related information to the call event data for various applications are saved through the data extraction interface to storage available to the first terminal device.

Stored event information with annotation can be retrieved through the data extraction interface to be further transmitted to other systems or devices for specific purposes .

The communication event between the user at a first terminal device and the other calling parties at secondary terminal devices is in one of the voice textual video or other formats. The type of the communication event is in one of the incoming or outgoing directions. Upon a successful connection of the communicating parties information related to the event is sent to a system which implements a preferred embodiment of the invention on a terminal device.

From the commonly available telephony and timer modules which interface with the communication network from the first terminal device only caller ID s event status and network calibrated time stamp are extracted . Generic formats of the caller ID s event status and time of the communication event are passed to various modules for further processing .

Related user settings and application data which are available to the terminal device are fetched for processing related information extracted from the communication network.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention caller ID s for an in progress communication event is extracted in the format of phone number for example to be compared with the phone book directory to obtain a person s name if found . The time of the event is converted to local time according to user setting for a calendar event also.

Default or user s policy on targeted application is obtained before the assembly of the user prompts for additional annotation or further selection . In the preferred embodiment of the invention assembled user prompts for annotation and selection are combined with an audio alert which notifies the user on the readiness of the user prompts .

As shown in the telephony module on a terminal device extracts information including caller ID s and the status of the communication event from the telecommunication network. Generic format of the caller ID s textual message and status notification are made available to the extraction module of from the common telephony module. The telephony information extraction module of reads the generic telephony information and checks the status of the communication event . If the communication is not established there is no event driven information annotation to the communication event . In the preferred embodiment of the invention there is no call logger page for unsuccessful communication. In case the communication established successfully one or plural caller ID s of other participating parties are converted into preferred format such as phone numbers or Internet Protocol IP addresses and passed to the information and policy processing module of .

If there are related user settings and application data such as time zone and phone book available on the terminal device shows more specific information such as caller name and time zone can be extracted. The intermediate format of caller ID s are compared with a contact directory such as phone book on the terminal device. If names are found with the intermediate format of caller ID s the user settings e.g. time zone and caller names are passed to the information and policy processing module of . Otherwise the intermediate caller ID s are packaged with user settings for event annotation.

In an example illustrated in the user can set local time zone from the terminal device under the options module . The time zone setting is saved as on device data for applications such as calendar.

In an embodiment of the invention illustrated in there are pre installed policy templates offered by applications available on the terminal device and pre defined program library configurable by the user . User is prompted on selecting or setting policy and features from the template library . For example if the terminal device is equipped with calendar phone book and message sender one of the user templates can include adding follow up events while saving the call event and forwarding annotated communication events to a specific contact for an elite caller as shown in .

In when the user selects policy settings some of the program modules are enables or disabled. Optional data attributes may be used to identify for example the elite clients. After processing the user preference on the policy such settings may be stored on a storage medium available to the terminal device for the information and policy processing module in .

An embodiment of the invention on processing the pre set or stored user policy is illustrated in . The user policy can be determined explicitly by the stored user s preference or implicitly by the existence of data attributes for related applications . The extracted and processed caller ID s from an in progress communication event is evaluated under the user policy for generating prompts to the user for efficient annotation . In the preferred embodiment of the invention a caller ID in the format of a phone number is compared with a phone directory . If a name is found from the directory and the record has sufficient information such as unique index for linking to items in the calendar the saved call event will be linked to records in the phone directory if the user s policy setting is to cross link records among application modules. Otherwise the call event is saved as stand alone calendar entry .

An example of policy driven user prompts is shown in . At the end of the communication event a call logger page is displayed along with alert sound. The call logger page reports type of the call as outgoing time of the call adjusted to local time zone caller ID and corresponding name found in the phone directory . There are entry boxes for user to annotate more information to the event and command links to save or discard the call event. The save and link contact to a call event is implemented as a system policy once user selects to save the call event .

Following the example in the user annotates more information to the call logger page in and saves the event to a calendar . shows the call event with annotation is saved to corresponding local date and time in the calendar application . The cross linked call event for a more complex user policy in can be verified in from the contact record page with pointers to linked events . demonstrates the cross linked call event a message to related contact and a follow up reminder .

In if the caller ID cannot be found in the phone directory and the data attributes are not available the application prepares different prompts for user to collect basic information separately . Additional user preference is checked if available on saving the user annotation to various application data. User can designate specific modules like the phone directory only for saving the user annotation related to the call event e.g. save a new name with a new caller ID only . In the preferred embodiment of the invention all user annotations are saved along with the call event into related application data . User preference on whether to link the saved application data if available is examined before saving the annotation to separate application formats with all possible cross linking among records related to the call event or no cross link .

Another embodiment of the invention is illustrated in where the user policy setting process is interactive. In this case the target application such as organizer checks the extracted and processed caller ID s e.g. phone number with application data e.g. names and unique record index for cross application linking e.g. links to calendar . If the caller name and application data attributes are found for a given caller ID the user is prompted to link saved call event with the contact or just save the annotated event to separate application formats .

In if the caller ID cannot be found in the phone directory the application prepares various prompts for user to save annotation to selected application modules only or save annotation with cross link among application data . In the preferred embodiment of the invention the user can answer the prompt to save annotation for a selected application or for all related applications separately . Alternatively the user can answer the prompt to link saved user annotations among related applications or no cross link among saved application data .

An example of the interactive user policy setting is show in . At the end of the communication event a call logger page is displayed along with alert sound. The call logger page reports type of the call as outgoing time of the call adjusted to local time zone caller ID and temporary name for the phone directory . There are entry boxes for user to annotate more information to the event and command links to save the new number only save the annotated call event only save both new contact and link with annotate call event or discard the call event.

Following the example in the user annotates more information to the call logger page in and saves with cross links between both the new contact and the call event . shows the call event with annotation is saved to corresponding local date and time in the calendar application . As shown in user can perform record search both in the contact directory and event calendar with the find application to verify the saved new contact and call event. The search returns both the call event and the new contact found on the storage available on the terminal device.

The cross linked call event can be verified in from the contact record page with newly added phone number assigned contact name and pointers to linked events . demonstrates the cross linked call event in the calendar application .

An embodiment of the invention on cross linking data from various application modules is illustrated in . The user or policy setting demands a creation of an item in application 2 with reference to a record in application on a system available at the terminal device. The system fetches the object index from application as a data flag for application and assembles with input information for application . The new item for application is saved with reference to the object index or pointer to the record in application . After the new item is saved for application the system prepares user prompts with summary of the item in application and a link or pointer to the related record in application for confirmation.

An example of cross linked event is shown in . The user creates an event FIG. from a record in the contact directory in FIG. . The system saves the new event with cross link to the contact and displays a summary page with a link to phone numbers or email addresses of the contact as shown in FIG. . When user selects the link to the contact the contact s phone number and email address are displayed for easy access as shown in FIG. .

In the preferred embodiment of the invention a data flow diagram of saving the annotated communication event following the default or user policy is illustrated in . The assembled user annotation to the communication event is checked on whether the policy demands saving to storage device for various application modules . If the annotated communication event is not saved the system will go to designated end point such as returning to screen display before the call. If the policy dictates saving the annotated communication event a post processing is performed to generate individual data for various applications .

An example on utilizing the saved communication events with annotation is illustrated in . Saved application data and can be extracted and reformatted following the policy for transmitting to other application or system . Other application or system can also deposit application data and updates the user policy through the data extraction module on the terminal device. shows a data upload policy is executed on saved communication events to a remote computer system. A report page is displayed on the status of the transmission .

An example of a computer system encapsulating the preferred embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . The system detects a communication event and extracts the status caller ID s and time of the communication event . Extracted call status caller ID s and timestamp of the communication event are fed into a computer program implementing the invention with details shown in . Application data and settings from the user along with user annotation to the communication event e.g. add notes and flag progress of related project are available to the computer program also. The computer program implementing the preferred embodiment of the invention is configured by the user or system defined policy which determines templates and programs for features of the target applications and prompts for collecting the user annotation . Processed information is saved into various formats for different applications in the system and . A consecutive process can be invoked to perform further tasks on the saved and linked if required data according to the objective of the system .

The computer program implementing the invention can be downloaded to a storage medium by a user as shown in . The storage medium can be a removable card for example or a persistent storage device available to the user at the first communication terminal device. The computer program can be invoked automatically or woke up by an in progress communication event to capture related information from the user application data and the communication event for further processing at a higher system level as shown in .

A content or application service center can upload the computer program implementing the invention to a server as shown in . The application server can package the computer program with related application and redistribute it to the storage of the terminal devices for an integrated communication event driven service on the terminal devices.

The asynchronous program download in and communication event driven information capturing in a system encapsulating the invention is shown in . The user can download the computer program implementing the invention to a storage medium via the same or different communication network where the communication event takes place. Or the user can install the computer program implementing the invention to a storage medium from a removable media reader device. When the communication event takes place the commonly available telephony and timer modules on the communication terminal extracts communication status caller ID s and event time . The in progress call status and the availability of the computer program are checked to determine whether to proceed to the information annotation or to a system defined handling on a communication event such as simply connect the call or route the call to a voice mail if not answered.

If the communication establishes successfully and the computer program is ready for use the system invokes the computer program implementing the invention . The program will fetch and process related information from the communication event user settings application data policy for target applications and user annotation to the event . Various application data are generated for next level information processing and .

Although the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed for illustrative purposes those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications additions and substitutions are possible without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed in the accompanying claims.

