---

title: Tilting mechanism for automobile headrests
abstract: An adjustable headrest for a vehicle includes a headrest body and at least one support arm extending downwardly from the headrest body. The support arm is shaped and dimensioned for positioning within the seat back of an automobile. A tilt assembly is positioned within the headrest body. The tilt assembly couples the headrest body to the support arm in a manner permitting relative movement between the headrest body and the support arm. The tilt assembly includes a lower bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the support arm and an upper bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the headrest body. The upper bracket assembly is pivotally coupled to the lower bracket assembly for controlled movement relative thereto. The tilt assembly includes a cam arm permitting actuation thereof between a locked position and a release position, wherein the cam arm may be actuated from either side of the headrest body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07431400&OS=07431400&RS=07431400
owner: 
number: 07431400
owner_city: Celebration
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060630
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provision Application Ser. No. 60 760 410 filed Jan. 20 2006 entitled TILTING MECHANISM FOR AUTOMOBILE HEADRESTS .

The invention relates to automobile headrests. More particularly the invention relates to a tilting mechanism for an automobile headrest.

Among the many features recently developed for enhancing the safety and comfort of automobile passengers and drivers adjustable headrests have been developed. Early headrests were limited in their usefulness and generally consisted of a covered block of foam extending from the upper portion of a seat back. The adjustment of these headrests was limited to vertical adjustment adapted to accommodate drivers and or passengers of different sizes.

However as we have learned more about ergonomics this knowledge has been rapidly applied to the development of safer and more comfortable automobile seats. Included among the advancements to automobile seats are improved headrests offering improved adjustability resulting in enhanced user comfort. The present invention attempts to add to these refinements by providing an automobile headrest with an improved tilting mechanism designed for actuation from either side of the headrest and for use with headrests of various sizes.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an adjustable headrest for a vehicle. The headrest includes a headrest body and at least one support arm extending downwardly from the headrest body. The support arm is shaped and dimensioned for positioning within the seat back of an automobile. A tilt assembly is positioned within the headrest body. The tilt assembly couples the headrest body to the support arm in a manner permitting relative movement between the headrest body and the support arm. The tilt assembly includes a lower bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the support arm and an upper bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the headrest body. The upper bracket assembly is pivotally coupled to the lower bracket assembly for controlled movement relative thereto. The tilt assembly includes a cam arm permitting actuation thereof between a locked position and a release position wherein the cam arm may be actuated from either side of the headrest body.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein a locking member is positioned between the lower bracket assembly and the upper bracket assembly. The locking member includes a latch for selectively releasing and locking the latching member to respectively facilitate movement of the headrest body relative to the support arm and lock the headrest body relative to the support arm.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the locking member includes an arcuate flange secured to the lower bracket assembly.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the arcuate flange includes a series of recesses positioned along the circumference of the flange for selective engagement with a lock slide secured to the upper bracket assembly. The lock slide selectively engages the flange for locking the headrest body relative to the support arm at preselected positions based upon the recesses formed along the circumference of the flange.

It is also another object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the cam arm cooperates with the lock slide for actuating the lock slide to release and engage the flange.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the cam arm includes a first end and a second end. The first end is positioned substantially along the outer surface of the headrest body for actuation when a user desires to adjust the tilt of his or her headrest. The second end of the cam arm is provided with an angled camming surface formed for mating with a lower surface of the lock slide which includes a similar camming surface formed along both sides of the lock slide allowing for actuation of the lock slide from either side thereof.

It is yet a further object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the second end of the cam arm is provided with a length adjustment mechanism permitting use in a variety of headrests regardless of the required distance between the outer surface of the headrest body and the lock slide.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the length adjustment mechanism is a series of selectively frangible sections permitting an installer to readily adjust the length of the cam arm by simply breaking off various sections of the frangible section.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a headrest including a first cam arm support secured to the upper bracket assembly for supporting the cam arm.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the first cam arm support includes a circularly locking member for receiving and engaging the cam arm as it is passed therethrough.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the first cam arm support includes an inwardly facing protrusion shaped and dimensioned to engage an outwardly facing protrusion formed along the outer surface of the cam arm. Both the inwardly facing protrusion and the outwardly facing protrusion include a respective locking surface. The outwardly facing protrusion also includes a tapered surface while the inwardly facing protrusion includes an engaging surface. The tapered surface of the cam arm and the engaging surface of the first cam arm support permit insertion of the cam arm while the locking surfaces of the first cam arm support and the cam arm engage once the cam arm is inserted to prevent withdrawal of the cam arm.

It is also a further object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the outwardly facing protrusion of the cam arm is formed on a slide which is slidingly supported upon the cam arm to permit movement of the cam arm relative thereto once the cam arm is locked to the first or second cam arm support.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a headrest including a second cam arm support secured to the upper bracket assembly for supporting the cam arm wherein the second cam arm support is positioned opposite the first cam arm support.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the second cam arm support includes a circularly locking member for receiving and engaging the cam arm as it is passed therethrough.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the second cam arm support includes an inwardly facing protrusion shaped and dimensioned to engage an outwardly facing protrusion formed along the outer surface of the cam arm. Both the inwardly facing protrusion and the outwardly facing protrusion include a respective locking surface. The outwardly facing protrusion also includes a tapered surface while the inwardly facing protrusion includes an engaging surface. The tapered surface of the cam arm and the engaging surface of the second cam arm support permit insertion of the cam arm while the locking surfaces of the first cam arm support and the cam arm engage once the cam arm is inserted to prevent withdrawal of the cam arm.

It is also another object of the present invention to provide a headrest wherein the outwardly facing protrusion of the cam arm are formed on a slide which is slidingly supported upon the cam arm to permit movement of the cam arm relative thereto once the cam arm is locked to the first or second cam arm support.

Other objects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses a preferred but non limiting embodiment of the subject invention.

The detailed embodiment of the present invention is disclosed herein. It should be understood however that the disclosed embodiment is merely exemplary of the invention which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore the details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as the basis for the claims and for teaching one skilled in the art how to make and or use the invention.

With reference to an adjustable headrest for an automobile is disclosed. The headrest includes a headrest body and at least one support arm extending downwardly from the headrest body the support arm being shaped and dimensioned for adjustable positioning within the seat back of the automobile . A tilt assembly is positioned within the headrest body . The tilt assembly couples the headrest body to the support arm in a manner permitting relative movement between the headrest body and the support arm 

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the headrest body is a conventional headrest body including a foam core with an outer surface formed of either fabric leather vinyl or other fabrics commonly used within the automobile industry. While the present invention is described for use in conjunction with a headrest designed for an automobile those skilled in the art will appreciate the concepts underlying the present invention could be readily applied to a variety of vehicles for example aircraft and boats without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

With regard to the support arm the headrest is preferably provided with a first support arm and a second support arm . The first and second support arms are linked to the tilt assembly in a manner permitting relative movement as discussed below in greater detail. However one or more support arms may be employed in conjunction with the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof. In addition and as those skilled in the art will certainly appreciate a variety of support arm structures are known within the art and any of these structures may be employed in accordance with the present invention without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

As will be appreciated based upon the following disclosure the present tilt assembly allows for right or left handed installation without utilizing different parts. As a result and as those skilled in the art will certainly appreciate the present invention allows for use of the same tilt assembly in headrests regardless of whether the headrest is to be positioned on the left or right side of the automobile . This is especially important considering the fact that it is desirable for the actuation mechanism for a headrest tilting assembly to be positioned for access toward the center of the automobile and away from the shoulder straps of conventional seatbelts. In addition to providing for either right or left handed installation through the utilization of a single tilt assembly the present tilt assembly allows for use in conjunction with headrest bodies of various sizes.

The tilt assembly includes a lower bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the support arms and an upper bracket assembly fixedly coupled to the headrest body . The upper bracket assembly is pivotally coupled to the lower bracket assembly via a pivot rod which is in turn fixedly connected for example by welding to the support arms for controlled movement relative thereto. Controlled movement is provided by the positioning of a locking member between the upper bracket assembly and the lower bracket assembly .

The upper bracket assembly includes a housing composed of first and second housing members which are shaped to fit about the actuating components of the present tilt assembly . The housing also includes a laterally extending recess in which the pivot rod is positioned in a manner allowing the upper bracket assembly to pivot relative to the lower bracket assembly that is generally the pivot rod and flange of the locking member .

The locking member is positioned between the lower bracket assembly and the upper bracket assembly . The locking member includes a latch for selectively releasing and locking the locking member to respectively facilitate movement of the headrest body relative to the support arms and lock the headrest body relative to the support arms 

More particularly the locking member includes an arcuate flange forming part of the lower bracket assembly . The arcuate flange is fixedly coupled to the pivot rod permitting the upper bracket assembly and the headrest body to pivot in a controlled manner. The arcuate flange includes a series of recesses positioned along the circumference of the flange for selective engagement with a lock slide secured to the upper bracket assembly . The lock slide is spring biased via a spring and selectively engages the flange for locking the headrest body relative to the support arms at preselected positions based upon the recesses formed along the circumference of the flange .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment the arcuate flange covers an arc allowing for adjustment of the headrest body along the same arc. As for the recesses they are positioned at predetermined intervals. As those skilled in the art will certainly appreciate the specific length of the arc defined by the arcuate flange and the number and position of the recesses may certainly be varied to suit specific automobile applications without departing from the spirit of the present invention.

A cam arm cooperates with the lock slide . The cam arm actuates the lock slide for movement along a recess formed in the housing to release and engage the flange in a manner selectively freeing the headrest body from the first and second support arms for permitting movement relative thereto.

The cam arm includes a first end and a second end . The first end is positioned substantially along the outer surface of the headrest body for actuation when a user desires to adjust the tilt of his or her headrest . With this in mind the exposed portion of the first end is provided with a button structure shaped and dimensioned for engagement by a user of the automobile and ease of use.

The second end of the cam arm is provided with an angled camming surface . The angled camming surface is formed at approximately a 45 degree angle for mating with a lower surface of the lock slide which includes similar first and second camming surfaces respectively formed along opposite sides of the lower surface of the lock slide . As will be appreciated based upon the foregoing disclosure the provision of first and second camming surfaces along the lower surface of the lock slide allow for actuation of the lock slide from either side thereof.

The second end of the cam arm is provided with a length adjustment mechanism permitting use in a variety of headrests regardless of the required distance between the outer surface of the headrest body and the lock slide . The length adjustment mechanism is a series of selectively frangible sections permitting an installer to readily adjust the length of the cam arm by simply breaking off various sections of the frangible section . As the various frangible sections are removed the camming surface at the second end of the cam arm remains the same and allows for interaction between the second end of the cam arm and the lock slide .

The cam arm may be supported along either left or right sides of the headrest . With this in mind a first cam arm support is secured to the left side of the upper bracket assembly for supporting the cam arm relative to the lock slide when the cam arm is to be actuated from the left side of the headrest body . The first cam arm support includes a circular lock for receiving and engaging the cam arm as it is passed therethrough. The circular lock of the first cam arm support includes an inwardly facing protrusion shaped and dimensioned to engage outwardly facing protrusions formed along the outer surface of the cam arm . Both the inwardly facing protrusion and the outwardly facing protrusions include respective locking surface s . The inwardly facing protrusion further includes a squared engaging surface and the outwardly facing protrusions include tapered surfaces . The tapered surfaces of the cam arm and the engaging surface of the first cam arm support are shaped and dimensioned to permit insertion of the cam arm . The locking surface s of the first cam arm support and the cam arm are shaped and dimensioned to engage one another once the cam arm is inserted to prevent withdrawal of the cam arm from the upper bracket assembly .

The cam arm includes a slide and a rod shaped and dimensioned to move within the slide . More particularly the outwardly facing protrusions of the cam arm are formed on the slide which slidingly supports the remainder of the cam arm that is the rod . This permits movement of the cam arm relative to the first cam arm support once the cam arm is locked to the first cam arm support by engaging the slide with the circular lock . The slide and rod are biased by a spring in a manner pushing the first end of the cam arm in particular the button secured at the first end of the rod toward the outer surface of the headrest body and simultaneously pushing the second end of the cam arm away from the lock slide to ensure the lock slide remains engaged with the arcuate flange unless the cam arm is specifically actuated by pressing the button inwardly such that the second end of the cam arm engages the lock slide . The extent of movement of the spring biased cam arm that is movement of the rod relative to the slide is controlled by a limit pin extending through the slide and interacting with a slot formed in the rod .

As the present tilting mechanism is designed for use with a variety of vehicles the distance from the first cam arm support to the outer surface of the headrest body the slide is provided with a plurality of protrusion along its length. As such the cam arm may be insert to a desired length that is the point at which the first end is substantially flush with the outer surface of the headrest body at which point it is inserted no further and the respective locking surfaces of the cam arm and the first cam arm support engage.

A second cam arm support is secured to the right side of the upper bracket assembly for supporting the cam arm relative to the lock slide when the cam arm is to be actuated from the left side of the headrest body . The second cam arm support includes a circular lock for receiving and engaging the cam arm as it is passed therethrough. The second cam arm support includes an inwardly facing protrusions shaped and dimensioned to engage outwardly facing protrusions formed along the outer surface of the cam arm . Both the inwardly facing protrusion and the outwardly facing protrusions include respective locking surface s . The inwardly facing protrusion further includes a squared engaging surface and the outwardly facing protrusions include the tapered surfaces . The tapered surfaces of the cam arm and the engaging surface of the second cam arm support are shaped and dimensioned to permit insertion of the cam arm . The locking surface s of the second cam arm support and the cam arm are shaped and dimensioned to engage one another once the cam arm is inserted to prevent withdrawal of the cam arm from the upper bracket assembly .

The circular locks are both formed with an inward directed guide member which sits within a slot in the cam arm to ensure proper alignment. Although only the guide member of circular lock of the first cam arm support is shown in the circular lock of the second cam arm support is provide with a similar guide member.

While the preferred embodiments have been shown and described it will be understood that there is no intent to limit the invention by such disclosure but rather is intended to cover all modifications and alternate constructions falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

