---

title: Dynamic advertising content distribution and placement systems and methods
abstract: A method of dynamic content distribution and placement of advertising between a mobile device and an advertisement fulfillment system comprising providing a rotation of advertisements stored in the mobile device. Each advertisement comprises substantive content and a value in an impression field. The method further comprises selecting an advertisement from the rotation of advertisements based at least in part on which advertisement in the rotation was last displayed, and displaying the selected advertisement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08423408&OS=08423408&RS=08423408
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08423408
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
This application includes subject matter related to the following applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 438 540 filed May 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for State Based Advertisement Messaging Across Media Types by James Barnes et al.

Advertising and marketing executives are constantly focused on reaching customers in new and innovative ways. With the widespread use of wireless communication devices and continuous advances in handset technology previously untapped new avenues of advertising are becoming readily available. Because of the breadth of varying technology in handsets the many types of media and the lack of infrastructure to support advertising in the wireless world compared to for example the internet or television advertising tools in the form of both software and hardware are needed to most efficiently and effectively manage advertising content and campaigns in the new mobile avenues for advertising.

Advertising may be displayed in a splash screen of a wireless device. A splash screen is displayed and used by an application or operating system to notify the user that the application or operating system is in the process of loading. When used for advertising the splash screen utilizes downtime while a program loads for advertising purposes. The splash screen then disappears when the application s main window appears. Splash screens may be visually appealing and may also have animations graphics and sound.

Some carriers use splash screens in wireless devices to display a static logo or brand to the user while for instance the device powers up and its operating system loads. The logo or brand displayed does not change and is not targeted to the user or location of the device.

Systems and methods for dynamic advertising content distribution and placement are provided. Some method embodiments include providing a rotation of advertisements stored in a mobile device each advertisement comprising content and a value in an impression field. Then an advertisement is selected from the rotation of advertisements based at least in part on which advertisement in the rotation was last displayed and displayed.

According to some system embodiments a system includes a mobile device and an advertisement fulfillment system. The mobile device includes an advertisements store that stores at least one advertisement and an advertisement management system that manages the advertisements store to present the advertisement to a user to dynamically change which advertisement in the rotation is presented to a user. The advertisement fulfillment system includes a campaign execution unit that executes the one or more advertising campaigns by transferring at least one advertisement for one or more advertising campaigns to the rotation in the advertisements store of the mobile device.

According to some embodiments a mobile device for dynamic advertising content distribution and placement is provided. The mobile device includes an advertisements store that stores a rotation of advertisements delivered from an external source. The mobile device also includes an advertisement management system that manages the advertisements store to dynamically change which advertisement in the rotation is presented to a user. The mobile device also includes at least one executable application operable to present the advertisements to a user.

These and other features and advantages will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of various embodiments is provided below the present system may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The present disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below.

With new avenues of advertising in the mobile device environment opening the systems and methods of the present disclosure provide an infrastructure for implementing and managing advertising campaigns. The mobile device of the present disclosure provides the hardware and software for retrieving advertising content from the advertisement fulfillment system and for dynamically rotating the advertising content that is presented to the user of the mobile device. Finally the methods of the present disclosure provide means for transferring advertising content to mobile devices for advertisement campaigns dynamic placement and rotation of advertising content and data mining and analytics based on the rotation and placement of the advertising content.

The following disclosure is divided into six sections including this overview. Section II defines terminology used in this disclosure. Section III describes in detail a novel advertising framework that provides context and support for the dynamic placement methods disclosed in the remaining sections IV through VI.

As used herein the term Carrier refers to a telecommunications company that provides communication services for a mobile device under a subscriber agreement.

As used herein the term Publisher refers to the companies that provide the mechanism to display advertisements. For example a publisher could be a WAP content provider a Multi media content provider or a JAVA application provider. Specifically Publishers are content providers.

As used herein the term pricing refers to the process of rating advertisements to determine the price of running a given advertisement at a particular time in a particular application and the like.

As used herein the term impressions refers to the number of instances that any given advertisement has been displayed or is desired to be displayed by the mobile device.

As used herein the term spots refers to an available instance in an application splash screen or white space in which an advertisement may be displayed. A spot in this context of advertising in a mobile device is analogous to the use of the term spot to refer to an available instance for a commercial on television or radio between major programs. Just as spots may be sold for advertising on television during the a sporting event such as the Superbowl or during a popular program spots may be sold for advertising in applications white spaces and splash screens in a mobile device.

As used herein the term targeting information refers to input criteria that identify an individual or group of individual mobile device users that are to be targeted in an advertising campaign.

As used herein the term media type refers to how technologically a given advertisement is displayed. For example the media type may indicate whether a given advertisement is displayed via a WAP page through a multi media player or embedded within a JAVA application.

As used herein the term category refers to the types of products or services being advertised in a given advertisement e.g. travel groceries sports outdoors name brand consumer goods etc. .

As used herein the term inventory refers to the overall quantity and identity of spots available for sale for display of advertising.

As used herein the term mobile wallet refers to a payment platform technology that enables mobile device users to store their personal details and preferred payment options including credit cards debit cards and stored value accounts in a virtual wallet in their mobile devices. Mobile device users then choose which payment method to use when making payments via their mobile phone for mobile Internet purchases and retail payments at the point of sale in a manner similar to undertaking a transaction from a conventional wallet.

The advertisement fulfillment system comprises an advertisement management user interface a campaign planner a campaign execution unit and data stores . The advertisement management user interface interfaces with the various users and includes an interface for each type of user such as an agency interface for one or more advertisement agencies a publisher interface for one or more publishers and a carrier interface for the carrier for the advertisement fulfillment system. Through the agency interface advertisement agencies may create advertising campaigns supply advertisements view the inventory and view reports each of which will be discussed in greater detail herein. Through the publisher interface publishers may add inventory receive advertisement Application Program Interfaces APIs and view reports each of which will be discussed in great detail herein. Similarly through the carrier interface the carrier may rate and price advertisements generate delivery rules for advertisements validate the advertisements and view reports each of which will be discussed in greater detail herein.

The campaign planner comprises various engines which may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Specifically the campaign planner comprises a pricing engine a planning engine and an analytic engine . The campaign planner is operably linked to the data stores such that data in the various data stores may be utilized by the pricing engine the planning engine and the analytic engine .

The pricing engine facilitates the definition of pricing rules by the carrier. Within a given campaign pricing may vary and be dependent on various factors. One factor that may affect pricing is the time the advertisement is served. Another factor that may affect pricing is the available inventory based on supply and demand . Yet another factor that may affect pricing is the industry in which the advertisement will stimulate interest for example an automobile is worth more than a cup of coffee . Another factor that may affect pricing is which particular event causes an advertisement to be displayed i.e. click to call when the user of the mobile device presses a button to make a call vs. click to URL when the user of the mobile device presses a button to connect to a particular website . Still another factor that may affect pricing is the channel by which the advertisement is broadcast i.e. the media type WAP and multimedia advertisements have different costs . Other factors that may affect pricing are the location of the device and whether targeting is used to determine which advertisement is displayed.

The planning engine is the primary component of the campaign planner . The planning engine interfaces between the other components to facilitate the campaign definition process. The planning engine supports the various users as described above namely the advertisement agency publisher and carrier. The functionality provided by the planning engine for each of these users is discussed in turn below.

For the advertisement agency user the planning engine facilitates advertisement and campaign management by enabling the advertisement agency user to add view update and delete advertisements. The planning engine also provides campaign lifecycle management by enabling the advertisement agency user to define view update delete start and stop campaigns. A campaign definition defined by the advertisement agency user with the planning engine may in various embodiments include the following criteria the campaign start date the campaign end date a number of impressions a number of subscribers targeted by the campaign advertisements spots a mapping of each advertisement to a spot targeting criteria and pricing. In various embodiments the targeting criteria may include for example demographic data such as age gender marital status income level whether the user has children and educational level. In various embodiments the targeting criteria may include for example behavioral categories i.e. sports music or travel preferences or location of the subscriber based on the subscriber zip code or a GPS location . In various embodiments the targeting criteria may include for example search keywords. In various embodiments the planning engine supports the dynamic addition and deletion of targeting criteria such as those described herein.

As will be discussed below with respect to components of the analytics engine regarding campaign modeling and planning optimization the advertisement agency user can input a subset of the campaign information i.e. targeting criteria listed above and components of the analytics engine will generate the remainder of the criteria necessary to meet the criteria that was specified. In various embodiments the advertisement agency user may vary any of the above targeting criteria and as a result the analytics engine recommends values for the non varied criteria.

For example in a first scenario the advertisement agency user inputs at least start and stop dates advertisements spots i.e. times available for advertising to be displayed and targeting information such as for example targeting an age group of 18 35 year old males. Based on these provided inputs the analytics engine generates a number of impressions and a number of targeted subscribers. The analytics engine references the inventory management and forecasting engine discussed in greater detail below for fine grain analysis of historical statistics.

For example in a second scenario the advertisement agency user inputs at least start and stop dates advertisements spots i.e. times available for advertising to be displayed a number of impressions i.e. instances of display for each advertisements such as no more than three times displayed and a number of targeted subscribers. Based on these provided inputs the analytics engine generates the remaining necessary targeting criteria such as for example demographics and location by referencing the historical statistics of the inventory management and forecasting engine .

For the publisher user the planning engine provides spot definition i.e. a media type and category for each spot or available time for advertising and enables the publisher user to manually specify available inventory over different timeframes inventory available per day month and the like . The planning engine also enables the publisher user to obtain the executable code such as WAP or JAVA instructions used to insert advertisements into available spots. The planning engine further facilitates the user put in place advertisement restrictions i.e. competitive exclusion .

For the carrier user the planning engine provides the ability to define carrier rules including global rules . Carrier rules may include for example frequency capping advertisement restrictions competitive exclusion language and campaign weighting and priority. The planning engine further provides the carrier user with the ability to manually overwrite or set the campaign priority i.e. define which advertisements within a campaign have higher priority and should be displayed first and define pricing rules. The planning engine additionally provides the carrier user the ability to validate advertisement content and the ability to start and stop campaigns. For all three types of user the planning engine is further operable to generate reports with respect to each of the functionalities described above.

The planning engine interfaces with the targeting engine of the analytics engine which will be further described herein below to specify the targeting criteria for the campaign and review the resulting subscriber base matches the targeting criteria. The planning engine may also use the targeting engine to model campaigns for campaign planning. The planning engine may also use the targeting engine to obtain targeting criteria to which a user can strategically target advertisements. The planning engine uses the Inventory Management Forecasting Engine to determine the capacity of inventory available for advertisement placement as a result of the targeted subscriber base determined by the targeting engine and the spots being requested. The planning engine interfaces with the pricing engine to determine the pricing for the campaign being planned based on the targeting and inventory being used.

The analytic engine is the brain of the Advertisement Fulfillment System . The analytic engine contains the data and intelligence to enable planning and execution of campaigns that meet the requirements needed to target highly relevant advertisements to subscribers. The analytic engine includes various components as shown in including an optimization engine a targeting engine an inventory management and forecasting engine a behavioral engine Customer Data Integration CDI module and a reporting engine .

The optimization engine of the analytic engine optimizes in progress campaigns. The optimization engine receives feedback on in progress campaigns via the event handler and modifies or optimizes the in progress campaigns based on campaign optimization rules. In various embodiments examples of campaign optimization rules include promoting particular spots or particular advertisements that are performing better than others or prioritizing a particular campaign lagging behind in number of impressions.

The optimization engine supports two modes of adjustment automated campaign adjustment that requires no human intervention and manual adjustment where the optimization engine provides recommendations but the recommendations are not implemented until a user triggers the change to the in progress campaign.

For an automated or manually implemented adjustment the optimization engine interfaces with the planning engine to create a modified campaign. The optimization engine leverages the logic used to create and or modify a campaign which will be described in greater detail below . The planning engine then automatically pushes the modified campaign to the campaign execution engine or for a manual adjustment presents the modified campaign to a user. The user reviews the modified campaign and decides which if any of the modified recommendations to provide to the planning engine .

The targeting engine of the analytic engine provides one to one targeting functionality i.e. at the subscriber level for campaigns. Two types of targeting are supported demographic targeting and behavioral targeting. The targeting engine processes the data provided by other components e.g. the CDI module and the behavioral engine which will be discussed in detail below to result in data that may be stored in the various data stores.

Upon receiving certain targeting criteria the targeting engine returns a subscriber base that meets the specified targeting criteria. Additionally the targeting engine conducts campaign scenario modeling which involves running campaign tests and what if scenarios for the purpose of campaign planning with the goal of planning an optimally successful campaign. In various embodiments the targeting engine may assist in determining targeting criteria to maximize the effectiveness of the campaign.

The targeting engine operates on data that is known for a given subscriber and thus some forms of location targeting may not be supported by the targeting engine e.g. non fixed GPS location is not known ahead of time . The planning engine is however operable for targeting by location which is a runtime decision implemented by the campaign execution engine as to whether a particular subscriber meets specific location targeting criteria.

The inventory management and forecasting engine of the analytic engine performs inventory management functions across all different types of delivery vehicles i.e. WAP Multimedia etc . The inventory management and forecasting engine accomplishes inventory management by dynamically determining the capacity for a given publishing spot based on previous customer usage and business rules i.e. it might boost availability 20 for Superbowl week for a given spot . The inventory management and forecasting engine receives the events information from the event handler . Initially prior to having historical customer usage data the available inventory across all spots is manually set. Previous customer usage being tracked in the carrier data archiving systems may be used by the inventory management and forecasting engine to predict the initial available inventory.

In various embodiments such data includes a WISP LOG table in Call Detail Records CDR archive which stores user click through information from Network Gateway NGG between the device and the AFS . The CDR archive is a carrier data store that keeps track of subscriber web usage including visits to URL sites and Transaction Detail Records TDRs . TDRs are subscriber records of Premium Content Purchase. CDRs and TDRs can be used to conduct behavioral analysis of users of mobile devices in order to target advertisements based on behavior. The NGG is the gateway through which all HTTP requests from the handset travel. The NGG is the mechanism that inserts the unique client id in the HTTP header requests. The unique client id is subsequently passed on to the publisher and may then be passed on to the Ad Fulfillment System when a request is made for an advertisement. The unique client id inserted into the HTTP requests by the NGG allows the Ad Fulfillment System to uniquely identify each user of a mobile device to whom an ad will be served which may then be used in targeting advertisements to specific users of mobile devices.

Based on the subscriber base targeted for a given campaign other campaign parameters time date and global rules frequency capping the inventory management and forecasting engine determines the relevant inventory for a given spot. Because the subscriber base targeted for a given campaign is known as discussed with respect to the targeting engine herein the inventory management and forecasting engine determines the impact to available inventory as a result of the targeting criteria.

The behavioral engine of the analytic engine associates categories with subscribers based on the subscribers behaviors. Such categories may include Sports News Entertainment or other potential subscriber interests. The behavioral engine utilizes events recorded by the event handler and various behavior rules defined by the carrier to determine the appropriate category assignments for each subscriber. The categorical data assigned by the behavioral engine augments the demographic data stored by the CDI module . Demographic data may be linked to behavioral data because targeting for a specific campaign may leverage both demographic data and behavioral data for an existing customer base.

The CDI module of the analytic engine imports data from various internal customer data sources i.e. carrier sources with multiple file formats and augments that data with customer data from external sources such as publishers advertisers or 3party data i.e. InfoUSA into a single customer data store. The primary type of data in this single data store generated by the CDI module is demographic data age gender marital status and the like . In order to integrate the internal and external data the CDI module matches data by relating and or associating data. In various embodiments this is performed by identifying a primary key. Additionally the CDI module transforms data into a common file format and merges the data. Finally the CDI module cleans up merged the data by removing duplicates i.e. de duplicating . The CDI module additionally imports multiple incoming file formats i.e. comma delimited XML and the like through the use of a tool without requiring coding.

The reporting engine of the analytic engine performs what is commonly referred to in the industry as Web Analytics or data mining. The reporting engine produces the following reports status and or results of in progress campaigns i.e. near real time statistics status and or results of past campaigns statistics on forecast versus actual campaign data statistics on targeting results statistics on performance according to publisher and statistics on performance according to advertisement. Additionally the reporting engine enables the user to create custom reports on any data that is stored in the Data Stores discussed below.

Returning to the campaign execution unit comprises various components which may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The campaign execution unit is responsible for delivering advertisements to mobile devices . In the present illustrative framework there are two types of advertisement delivery by the campaign execution unit pull advertisements and pushed advertisements. In the case of pull advertisements the user of the mobile device accesses the internet or a particular application and advertisements appear in the mobile device as a result of this activity. In the case of push advertisements initiating display of the advertisement requires no initiative or activity by the user e.g. an unsolicited Short Message Service SMS message . Specifically the campaign execution unit comprises a delivery agent advertisement server a campaign execution engine and an event handler . The campaign execution unit is operably linked to the data stores such that data in the various data stores may be utilized by the delivery agent advertisement server the campaign execution engine and the event handler .

The delivery agent advertisement server generally receives advertisement requests in case of pull ads from a client or server based application requests an advertisement from the Execution Engine and responds with an advertisement to be served. In case of push advertisements the delivery agent advertisement server receives the advertisement content from the campaign execution engine and sends the content to the mobile device . The delivery agent advertisement server uses the specific protocols needed to receive advertisement request and deliver advertisements. In various embodiments the primary protocol used for receiving advertisement requests and delivering advertisements is HTTP.

The campaign execution engine executes advertisement campaigns defined and activated with the Campaign Planner . The campaign execution engine serves the advertisements for a given campaign upon receiving the advertisement requests in case of pull ads . Upon receiving an advertisement request from the delivery agent advertisement server in case of pull ads the campaign execution engine determines the appropriate advertisement to be served based on complex rules and parameters. In various embodiments some criteria involved in determining the correct advertisement include 

The campaign execution engine receives some or all of the following information when an advertisement is requested the subscriber id for the mobile device the publisher i.e. spot id the content type the location and one or more keywords. The campaign execution engine uses this information to determine the set of campaigns that are associated with the request accomplished by looking for campaigns associated with the subscriber id and the spot id of the request.

Illustrative pseudo code for determining the set of campaigns associated with an advertisement request is as follows 

In various embodiments the campaign execution engine utilizes a set of global delivery rules which may or may not be hard coded to make the decision on which campaign and advertisement to serve to the mobile device . The global rules may be defined by the carrier using the carrier user interface of the Advertisement Fulfillment System . In various embodiments decision making of the campaign execution engine based on the global rules is accomplished in a timely manner such as for example in less than 200 msec to keep the overall latency of advertisement serving to the subscriber to a minimum.

The global delivery rules in various embodiments may be very complex. For example if frequency capping for a subscriber is met and a particular campaign is lagging on its last day the campaign execution engine may be enabled by the global rules to break the frequency capping rule and serve the advertisement in order to meet the goals of the campaign. In order for the campaign execution engine to execute the global rules the campaign execution engine tracks information on previously served ads. The tracked information may include for example how many times an advertisement been served to a particular subscriber e.g. for frequency capping how many times has an advertisement been served for a given campaign e.g. when an advertisement can be served for multiple campaigns and campaign weighting needs to be taken into consideration .

For push advertisements the campaign execution engine also pushes advertisements for campaigns to the delivery manager. Finally the campaign execution engine sends information regarding advertisement events to the event handler .

The event handler receives advertisement events from the campaign execution engine user actions or other sources and records those events into an events database. The event handler processes events as needed. For either push or pull advertisements the campaign execution engine sends the impression delivery event to the event handler . For user actions referred to in the industry as click events click to url click to call click for SMS the event handler records the event and may call another component for subsequent action such as for example sending an SMS or directing to another WAP site. Other sources of events include the Mobile Wallet and applications running on the mobile device such as for example a multimedia player and downloaded JAVA 2 Micro Edition J2ME applications . Each event handled by the event handler may be used in billing and analytics which are described in greater detail herein .

The data stores comprise various databases including an advertisement content store a billing events store a subscriber inventory store a carrier delivery rules store and a campaign data store . The advertisement content store may store the entire stock of advertisements that may be managed by the Advertisement Fulfillment System and transferred over to storage in the advertisements store on a mobile device . The billing events store stores invoicing data that may be used in billing advertising agencies and settlement records that may be used in settling up with publishers for campaigns run on the system. The subscriber inventory store stores subscriber data pertaining to each user that subscribes to the carrier including subscriber identifiers and demographic data. The data in the subscriber inventory store may be continuously or periodically updated. The carrier delivery rules store stores rules relating to campaigns or particular advertisements or types of advertisements pertaining to how and when advertisements may be displayed. For example a carrier rule may impose restrictions on frequency of advertisement display advertisement restrictions such as competitive exclusion or language and campaign weighting and priority. The campaign data store stores data relating to campaigns including for example targeting information progress in a campaign impression counts for specific advertisements duration of the campaign and the like. The data stores are populated by various data sources . The data sources include a subscriber mobile wallet that contains personal identifying and financial data for the user of the mobile device internal consumer info maintained by the carrier external consumer info maintained by third parties and a billing system used for managing billing for advertising as opposed to the billing system for the telecommunication services provided by the mobile device .

The present disclosure expands upon the different media types included as inventory for advertising in mobile devices. For instance WAP pages are an inventory similar to internet web pages but formatted in Wireless Application Protocol a protocol created for mobile devices such as PDAs and mobile phones designed to give users a richer data application experience that would enable access to the Internet through mobile devices. WAP pages may be the source of advertising inventory in the sense that ad banners or ad text may be added to web pages. Such ad banners or texts may in various embodiments be interactive e.g. click to call click to coupon click to url etc. .

Short Message System SMS is a service available on most digital mobile phones that permits the sending of short messages also known as text messages messages or more colloquially SMSes texts or even txts between mobile phones and other handheld devices. SMS messages may be the source of advertising inventory i.e. push technology instead of pull technology such as WAP pages since messages can be pushed to a mobile device without subscriber initiation . SMS messages may be used to selectively push advertisements or alternatively they could be used as a result of a subscriber interaction with an advertisement elsewhere such as for example when the user clicks on a banner advertisement to register for a contest an SMS message could be pushed to send an entry notification to the user .

Multimedia content may be still another source of advertising inventory. Multimedia content includes content that is played on a media player on the handset similar to playing audio video using Microsoft Media Player or Apple s QuickTime Pro on a computer. Multimedia content may be either on demand or live content. In on demand content a video clip of a predetermined length is played. In the case of on demand content an advertisement may be played before the requested clip pre roll during the requested clip or after the requested clip post roll . In the case of live content the content is streamed and plays as long as the user permits the media player to play it. Similar to regular television advertisements may be inserted into the stream. In various embodiments there are both national and local ad spots.

Searches as a subset of WAP pages comprise still another source of advertising inventory in the sense that a user may enter keywords in a search and the keywords may be utilized in targeting advertisements. For instance if a user entered into a search the keywords bed frames advertisements for local mattress stores may be triggered based on context. Search engines enable contextual targeting with the user of the mobile device providing in the search string things of interest to her.

A directory application may provide additional advertising inventory in the sense that a directory is a subset of Java applications and advertisements may be served up in any type of JAVA application. In a type of directory JAVA that gives directions advertisements relevant to locations along the direction route may be placed in the application along with the directions. Similarly advertisements may be displayed in a web page application providing directory assistance.

Location based applications may be additional advertising inventory in the sense that in java applications a particular advertisements may be served up in response to a determination of the location of the mobile device.

Start up shut down of J2ME applications may be advertising inventory in the sense that they offer additional locations within a JAVA application where advertisements may be placed. In addition to placing advertisements at the startup and shutdown of a Java application advertisements may be embedded within an application itself as it runs on the mobile device. For example in an application for a race car game an advertisement may be displayed in a road sign graphic in the game or at the bottom of a game where white space is available next to the score the timer etc.

A block diagram of an illustrative mobile device as it interacts with the advertisement fulfillment system is shown in . In various embodiments the mobile device comprises a cellular or wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA handheld computer or the like operable as a mobile communication device when used in conjunction with telecommunication services provided by a carrier. The mobile device comprises in addition to its basic functionality for communication an Advertisements Store an Advertisement Management System AMS various J2ME applications a JAVA Virtual Machine JVM and a Browser . The Advertisement Management System manages the Advertisements Store on the mobile device . At least one default advertisement is present in the Advertisements Store and never deleted. A default advertisement for the carrier is stored in the Advertisements Store at a time of manufacture or packaging for sale.

For each advertisement within the Advertisements Store the following may be stored a name of the advertisement the content of the advertisement which in various embodiments comprises a banner style of ad an expiration date and time and in an impressions field a number of impressions i.e. number of times that the particular advertisement will be displayed before deletion . In some embodiments each time an advertisement is displayed the AMS reduces the impressions field by 1 and when the impressions field is zero the AMS deletes the advertisement from the Advertisements Store .

In response to the call the Advertisement Fulfillment System and more specifically the delivery agent advertisement server will identify one or more advertisements to send to the mobile device to store in the Advertisements Store based on identifying information and currently executing campaigns block . In various embodiments the Advertisement Fulfillment System identifies specific advertisements to convey based upon the identifying information about the mobile device . For example based on the unique subscriber identifier the Advertisement Fulfillment System determines which advertisements to send according to the campaign planner . In various embodiments the advertisements which are sent may be chosen according to demographical information related to the subscriber behavioral information related to the subscriber or location information pertaining to where the subscriber and mobile device is located. Similarly based on the device identifier the Advertisement Fulfillment System will determine how many advertisements to send at a time block . In various embodiments the Advertisement Fulfillment System determines how many advertisements to send at a time based on the amount of storage space available in the Advertisements Store on the mobile device . For example some devices are designed with more storage for advertisements than others so greater numbers of advertisements or advertisements that require greater amounts of storage may be sent and stored in the device. The device type may be determined by using the identifying information and referencing a local database not shown or may be determined from a header field in the call populated in some embodiments by NGG .

The Advertisement Fulfillment System conveys the selected advertisement s to the mobile device block and the advertisements conveyed are then stored in the Advertisements Store block . This process is repeated either periodically or based on various triggering events such as an amount of time that has passed the advertisements store is empty other than the default advertisement the beginning of a new advertising campaign or the like block .

In various embodiments the Advertisement Management System provides the getAd API when triggered by an event i.e. invocation of a program. The Advertisement Management System selects an appropriate advertisement block . In various embodiments the advertisements are stored with rotation information in the Advertisements Store and the Advertisement Management System selects the appropriate advertisement based on the rotation information. The rotation information may include a pointer stored in memory that rotates which advertisement is selected for display. In other embodiments the rotation order may be chronologically based using the date the advertisements were added to the advertisements store or using the expiration date of the advertisements in the advertisements store . Alternatively the rotation order may be logically based using rules from one or more on going advertising campaigns. By incorporating the logic for advertisement rotation in the AMS and storing ads on the handset as opposed to interfacing with the Ad Fulfillment System upon each request latency introduced in individual transfer of an advertisement upon request from the Ad Fulfillment System to the Advertisement Management System is avoided.

The Advertisement Management System provides the selected advertisement to the J2ME app the JVM or the Browser that will display the advertisement block . The Advertisement Management System also updates value in the impression field in the Advertisements Store for the selected advertisement by subtracting one block . A check is performed to determine whether for the selected advertisement the value in the impression field is zero block . If the value in the impression field in the Advertisements Store for the selected advertisement is zero the Advertisement Management System deletes the advertisement as having been displayed a predetermined number of times block . Then the Advertisement Management System updates the rotation of the advertisements and waits until the next advertisement is needed block . If the value in the impression field in the Advertisements Store is not zero the Advertisement Management System maintains the advertisement in the advertisements store maintains the rotation of the advertisements and waits until the next advertisement is needed block . With each successive getAd request the Advertisement Management System provides the next advertisement in succession in a round robin fashion randomly or according to other sequencing approaches known to those of skill in the art when multiple advertisements are present in the Advertisements Store . In this fashion the multiple advertisements are rotated over time.

In various embodiments if only one advertisement is present in the Advertisements Store it is the default advertisement and is returned for each getAd request until additional advertisements are stored in the Advertisements Store . The value in the impression field for the default advertisement is never reduced to zero.

In various embodiments if the expiration date for a particular advertisement is reached before the impression field for that advertisement is zero the advertisement is deleted from the Advertisements Store and is not returned by Advertisement Management System in response to a getAd request.

As shown in for each getAd request the Advertisement Management System records certain information block . The recorded information may pertain to the request made or the advertisement returned in response to the request. For example the recorded information may include in various embodiments the name of the advertisement returned the date and time of the getAd request and the identity of requesting application i.e. the particular J2ME application the JVM or the Browser . In various embodiments the identity of the requesting application may be provided by the requesting application in the getAd call.

Periodically or in response to a triggering event such as the next occurrence of requesting a set of advertisements the Advertisement Management System uploads the recorded information to the Advertisement Fulfillment System block . In some embodiments the unique subscriber identifier is passed to the Advertisement Fulfillment System in each individual call thus re conveying the subscriber identifiers is unnecessary. In some embodiments the Advertisement Management System may optionally send the unique subscriber identifiers which were recorded along with each getAd API to the Advertisement Fulfillment System block . Once the recorded information has been successfully uploaded the Advertisement Management System may delete the recorded information and start anew recording information with each getAd request block . The recorded information once uploaded to the Advertisement Fulfillment System may be used by the planning engine and the analytic engine in further advertisement campaign planning and analysis of the efficacy of previous advertisement campaigns block .

The dynamic content distribution and placement framework of the present disclosure may be implemented at least partially on any general purpose computer with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. illustrates a typical general purpose computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage reads only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are reads during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices. The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA and or global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be coupled through some interface or device such that the items may no longer be considered directly coupled to each other but may still be indirectly coupled and in communication whether electrically mechanically or otherwise with one another. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

