---

title: Power switching semiconductor devices including rectifying junction-shunts
abstract: A semiconductor device includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type and a body region adjacent the drift layer. The body region has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and forms a p-n junction with the drift layer. The device further includes a contactor region in the body region and having the first conductivity type, and a shunt channel region extending through the body region from the contactor region to the drift layer. The shunt channel region has the first conductivity type. The device further includes a first terminal in electrical contact with the body region and the contactor region, and a second terminal in electrical contact with the drift layer. The shunt channel region has a length, thickness and doping concentration selected such that: 1) the shunt channel region is fully depleted when zero voltage is applied across the first and second terminals, 2) the shunt channel becomes conductive at a voltages less than the built-in potential of the drift layer to body region p-n junction, and/or 3) the shunt channel is not conductive for voltages that reverse biase the p-n junction between the drift region and the body region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07598567&OS=07598567&RS=07598567
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07598567
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061103
---
The present invention was made at least in part with support from Office of Naval Research contract number 05 C 0202. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to power semiconductor devices and methods of forming power semiconductor devices and more particularly to power switching semiconductor devices and methods of forming power switching semiconductor devices.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from a semiconductor surface by an intervening insulator which may be but is not limited to silicon dioxide. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation. Power MOSFETs can provide an excellent safe operating area and can be paralleled in a unit cell structure.

As is well known to those having skill in the art MOSFET devices may generally have a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the drain gate and source terminals are on the same surface of a substrate. In contrast in a vertical structure the source and drain are on opposite surfaces of the substrate.

Although most power devices are formed in silicon recent development efforts have also included investigation of the use of silicon carbide SiC for power devices. Silicon carbide has a combination of electrical and physical properties that make it an attractive semiconductor material for high temperature high voltage high frequency and or high power electronic devices. These properties include a 3.0 eV bandgap a 4 MV cm electric field breakdown a 4.9 W cm K thermal conductivity and a 2.0 10cm s electron drift velocity.

These properties may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels and or with lower specific on resistance than conventional silicon based power devices. A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

A conventional vertical power MOSFET structure is illustrated in . The structure includes an n substrate on which an n drift layer is formed. P type body regions are formed in the n drift layer by for example ion implantation. N type source regions are formed in the body regions adjacent p body contact regions . A gate insulator is formed on the surface of the drift layer and extends over the surface of the body regions between the source regions and the drift layer . A gate contact is formed on the gate insulator . Source contacts are formed on the source regions while a drain contact is formed on the substrate . When a sufficient voltage is applied to the gate contact a channel is induced at the surface of the device in the body regions between the source regions and the drain region placing the device in an ON state.

In the OFF state i.e. when a gate voltage sufficient to induce a channel is not present the power MOSFET structure is equivalent to a PIN diode formed by the p body region the n type drift layer and the n substrate . When this structure is reverse biased a depletion region extends principally on the drift layer side of the junction J between the body region and the drift layer towards the substrate blocking the drain voltage.

However when the device is in the ON state the drift layer provides a conduction path between the source and the substrate . Thus the resistance of the drift layer contributes to the drain to source resistance RDSon of the device .

The doping level and the thickness of the n drift layer affect both the breakdown voltage and the RDSon of the transistor device . The thicker the drift layer and the lower its doping level the higher the breakdown voltage of the device . Conversely the thinner the drift layer and the higher its doping level the lower the RDSon and therefore the lower the conduction losses of the device . Therefore there is a trade off between the voltage rating of a power MOSFET device and its ON state resistance.

Typical applications for switching power devices such as insulated gate bipolar transistors IGBTs and or power MOSFETs may benefit from reverse conduction for rectification and or clamping by an internal and or external diode. Because power MOSFETs have an inherent PIN diode within the structure this internal diode may be utilized for rectification and clamping or may be bypassed by an external diode. Because the inherent internal PIN diode of a power MOSFET may cause minority carrier injection across the drain body junction J the device may have a slow reverse recovery time due to minority carrier recombination. Furthermore injection of minority carriers across the drain body junction J may contribute to degradation of the SiC crystal forming the drift layer .

Power switching semiconductor devices also include high voltage silicon carbide Schottky diodes and PIN diodes which may have voltage blocking ratings between for example about 600V and about 10 kV or more. Such diodes may handle as much as about 100 A or more of forward current depending on their active area design.

PIN devices which are minority carrier devices typically exhibit relatively poor switching speeds. In contrast Schottky devices are theoretically capable of much higher switching speeds. In addition silicon carbide devices may be capable of handling a higher current density than silicon devices.

A conventional SiC Schottky diode structure has an n type SiC substrate on which an n epitaxial layer which functions as a drift region is formed. The device typically includes a Schottky contact formed directly on the n layer. A junction termination region such as a guard ring and or p type JTE unction termination extension region is typically formed to surround the Schottky junction active region. The purpose of junction termination region is to reduce or prevent electric field crowding at the edges of the Schottky junction and to hinder the depletion region from interacting with the surface of the device. Surface effects may cause the depletion region to spread unevenly which may adversely affect the breakdown voltage of the device.

Regardless of the type of termination used the Schottky diode will break down if a large enough reverse voltage is applied to the junction. Such break downs are generally catastrophic and may damage or destroy the device. Furthermore even before the junction has failed a Schottky diode may experience large reverse leakage currents. In order to reduce such leakage currents the junction barrier Schottky JBS diode was developed. JBS diodes are sometimes referred to as Merged PIN Schottky MPS diodes to reflect the possible mode of operation including minority carrier injection from the inherent PiN diode within the JBS structure.

A conventional JBS diode is illustrated in . As shown therein a conventional JBS diode includes an n type substrate on which an n drift layer is formed. A plurality of p regions are formed typically by ion implantation in the surface of the n drift layer . A metal anode contact is formed on the surface of the n drift layer in contact with both the n drift layer and the p regions . The anode contact forms a Schottky junction with the exposed portions of the drift layer between the p regions and may form an ohmic contact with the p regions . A cathode contact is formed on the substrate . Silicon carbide based JBS diodes are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 104 043 and 6 524 900.

In forward operation the junction J between the anode contact and the drift layer turns on at lower voltages than the junction J between the p regions and the drift layer . Thus at low forward voltages the device exhibits Schottky diode behavior. That is current transport in the device is dominated by majority carriers electrons injected across the Schottky junction J at low forward voltages. As there may be no minority carrier injection and thus no minority charge storage in the device at normal operating voltages JBS diodes may have fast switching speeds characteristic of Schottky diodes.

Under reverse bias conditions however the depletion regions formed by the PN junctions J between the p regions and the drift layer expand to block reverse current through the device protecting the Schottky junction J and limiting reverse leakage current in the device . Thus in reverse bias the JBS diode approaches the voltage blocking behavior of a PIN diode. The voltage blocking ability of the device is typically determined by the thickness and doping of the drift layer and the design of the edge termination.

A semiconductor device according to some embodiments of the invention includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type and a first body region adjacent the drift layer. The first body region may have a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and may form a p n junction with the drift layer. A second body region having the second conductivity type is on the first body layer. The device further includes a first contactor region in the body region and having the first conductivity type and a shunt channel region extending between the first and second body regions from the contactor region to the drift layer. The shunt channel region may have the first conductivity type. The device further includes a first terminal in electrical contact with the first and second body regions and the first contactor region and a second terminal in electrical contact with the drift layer.

The shunt channel region may have a length thickness and doping concentration selected such that the channel region is fully depleted when zero voltage is applied across the first and second terminals. In particular the channel region may have a doping concentration of from about 1E15 to about 5E17 cmand may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

In some embodiments the length thickness and doping concentration of the shunt channel region may be selected such that the shunt channel region is not conductive when the p n junction between the first body region and the drift layer is reverse biased.

The length thickness and doping concentration of the shunt channel region and the doping concentration of the first and second body regions may be selected such that a conductive channel is formed in the shunt channel region when a voltage is applied to the first terminal that is less than a built in potential of the p n junction between the body region and the drift layer. The first and second body regions may have a doping concentration of from about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm.

The semiconductor device may further include a substrate having the first conductivity type and having a dopant concentration greater than a dopant concentration of the drift layer the drift layer is on the substrate and the second terminal is on the substrate.

The body region may include an implanted region in the drift layer and the shunt channel region may include an epitaxial layer on the drift layer and first body region. The second body region may include an epitaxial layer on the shunt channel region. The contactor region may extend through the second body region and into the first body region.

The contactor region may include a first contactor region and the semiconductor device may further include a second contactor region having the second conductivity type and extending through the first contactor region into the first body region.

In some embodiments the first conductivity type may be n type and the second conductivity type may be p type. In other embodiments the first conductivity type may be p type and the second conductivity type may be n type.

The first terminal may include an anode terminal and the second terminal may include a cathode terminal for the case where the first conductivity type is n type and the terminals are reversed for the case where the first conductivity type is p type.

The semiconductor device may further include a gate insulator layer on a surface of the second body region between the contactor region and the drift layer and a gate contact on the gate insulator layer. The first terminal may include a source terminal and the second terminal may include a drain terminal. The second body region may be in electrical contact with first terminal and or in electrical contact with second contactor in regions where the first contactor is masked.

The semiconductor device may further include a threshold adjustment layer on the second body region. The threshold adjustment layer may have a doping concentration selected to adjust a threshold voltage of the semiconductor device.

The semiconductor device may further include a neck implant region adjacent the first and second body regions. The neck implant region may have the first conductivity type and the shunt channel region may extend between the contactor region and the neck implant region.

The contactor region may include a vertical contactor region extending from a surface of the semiconductor device into the first body region and a horizontal contactor region in contact with the vertical contactor region and extending from the vertical contactor region to the shunt channel region.

The semiconductor device may further include a recess within the second body region and a conductive material in the recess and the contactor region may include a horizontal contactor region in contact with the conductive material within the recess and extending from the recess to the channel region.

Some embodiments of the invention provide an electronic circuit including a semiconductor device including a rectifying junction shunt in parallel with an external diode having a first terminal connected to the first terminal of the semiconductor device and a second terminal connected to the second terminal of the semiconductor device.

A MOSFET according to some embodiments of the invention includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type and a body region adjacent the drift layer the body region having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and forming a p n junction with the drift layer. The MOSFET further includes a source region in the body region and having the first conductivity type and a shunt channel region on the body region and extending from the source region to the drift layer. The shunt channel region may have the first conductivity type. The MOSFET further includes a gate insulating layer on the shunt channel region between the source region and the drift layer a gate contact on the gate insulating layer a source contact in electrical contact with the body region and the contactor region and a drain contact in electrical contact with the drift layer.

The shunt channel region may have a length thickness and doping concentration selected such that the channel region is fully depleted at zero applied voltage to the first terminal and the second terminal and at a gate voltage that is less than a threshold voltage of the MOSFET. In particular the channel region may have a doping concentration of from about 1E15 to about 5E17 cmand may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

The length thickness and doping concentration of the shunt channel region and the doping concentration of the body region may be selected such that a conductive channel is formed in the channel region when a voltage is applied to the first terminal that is less than a built in potential of the p n junction between the body region and the drift layer. The body region may have a doping concentration of from about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm.

The MOSFET may further include a neck implant region in the drift layer adjacent the body region and having the first conductivity type and the shunt channel region may contact the neck implant region.

The MOSFET may further include a substrate having the first conductivity type and having a dopant concentration greater than a dopant concentration of the drift layer. The drift layer may be on the substrate and the drain contact may be on the substrate.

Some embodiments of the invention provide methods of forming an electronic device. The methods may include forming a drift layer having a first conductivity type forming a first body region in the drift layer the first body region having a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and forming a p n junction with the drift layer forming a second body region having the second conductivity type on the first body region and forming a shunt channel layer in the body region the shunt channel region having the first conductivity type and extending between the first and second body regions to the drift layer. The shunt channel region may have a length thickness and doping concentration selected such that the channel region is fully depleted when zero voltage is applied thereto. The methods may further include forming a contactor region in the first body region the contactor region contacting the channel layer and having the first conductivity type.

The contactor region may include a first contactor region and the methods may further include forming a second contactor region having the first conductivity type and extending through the first contactor region and into the first body region.

Forming the shunt channel layer may include forming a channel epitaxial layer on the drift layer and the first body region and forming the second body region may include forming a body epitaxial layer on the channel epitaxial layer. In some embodiments forming the channel layer may include implanting a buried channel layer in the body region.

The methods may further include forming a first terminal in electrical contact with the second body region and the contactor region and forming a second terminal in electrical contact with the drift layer.

Forming the first body region may include selectively implanting second conductivity type impurities into the drift layer.

The methods may further include forming a gate insulator layer on the second body region between the contactor region and the drift layer and forming a gate contact on the gate insulator layer. The methods may further include forming a threshold adjustment layer on the second body region.

Forming the threshold adjustment layer may include forming a threshold adjustment epitaxial layer on the second body region and forming the contactor region may include selectively implanting first conductivity type impurities through the threshold adjustment epitaxial layer and into the second body region.

The methods may further include forming a neck implant region adjacent the first and second body regions. The shunt channel layer may extend from the contactor region between the first and second body regions and to the neck implant region. The neck implant region may have the first conductivity type.

A power MOSFET device according to some embodiments of the invention includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type and a body region in the drift layer. The body region may have a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and may form a p n junction with the drift layer. The MOSFET further includes a source region having the first conductivity type in the body region a drain region adjacent the drift layer and a static induction rectifier SIR channel extending from the source region to the drift layer. The SIR channel region is configured to be fully depleted at zero drain source voltage and to form a conductive channel between the source region and the drift layer at a source to drain voltage that is less than the built in potential of the p n junction between the body region and the drift layer.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a PIN or JBS diode including a drift layer having a first conductivity type and a body region in the drift layer. The body region has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type and forms a p n junction with the drift layer. The device further includes a contactor region in the body region the contactor region having the first conductivity type and a static induction rectifier SIR channel region extending from the contactor region to the drift layer. The SIR channel region is configured to be fully depleted at zero voltage across the body region to drift region p n junction and to form a conductive channel between the contactor region and the drift layer at an applied voltage that is less than a built in potential of the p n junction between the body region and the drift layer.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be understood that although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions materials layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer material or section from another element component region layer material or section. Thus a first element component region layer material or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer material or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes including comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region. Furthermore as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art conductivity types of semiconductor layers of an electronic device may be reversed in certain cases.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As noted above typical applications for switching power devices may benefit from reverse conduction for rectification and or clamping by an internal and or external diode. Because power MOSFETs have an inherent PIN diode within the structure the internal diode may be used for the rectification and clamping or may be bypassed by an external diode. Because the inherent PIN diode of a power MOSFET may result in minority carrier injection across the drain body junction i.e. the PN junction at the body to drift layer interface it may have a slow reverse recovery time and or may experience SiC crystal degradation caused by minority carrier injection.

Some embodiments of the invention provide reverse conducting static induction rectifier SIR junction shunts that may bypass the inherent PIN junction of a power MOSFET device. SIR junction shunts may provide benefits by 1 bypassing current flow from an inherent internal drain body junction of a MOSFET thereby reducing the injection of minority carriers and decreasing the reverse recovery time of the device and or 2 enabling reverse current to flow for voltages lower than the built in potential of the drain body junction which is approximately 3 V for SiC . Thus a device including SIR junction shunts according to some embodiments of the invention may experience lower on state losses for lower current conditions. In addition reduction of minority carrier injection may reduce physical degradation of crystalline SiC material in a SiC based device.

Some embodiments of the invention also provide discrete SIR diodes that may have advantages compared to conventional JBS and or PIN diodes as described below.

A power MOSFET including integrated SIR drain body junction shunts may have advantages compared to a power MOSFET in combination with an external diode for clamping or rectification because the internal SIR shunts may be more effective than an external diode at keeping the inherent PIN diode from becoming forward biased. For example if an external anti parallel diode is used the entire voltage across the external diode would appear across the MOSFET internal drain body PN junction until the internal PN junction starts to inject minority carriers.

In contrast an internal SIR drain body junction shunt may begin to conduct at low voltages approximately 1V and the voltage drop in the device may be distributed across the internal SIR channel and the drift layer. Therefore the source to drain voltage across the MOSFET can be larger than the built in potential of the drain body PN junction while still reducing minority carrier injection.

In addition an external PIN JBS or SIR diode can be paralleled with a power MOSFET with integrated SIR drain body junction shunts to provide higher total diode current capability before the MOSFET drain body diode junction begins to inject minority carriers. In that case the integrated SIR drain body junction shunts may permit the external diode to have a larger forward voltage drop without resulting in minority carrier injection across the drain body junction. Consequently a smaller area and thus lower capacitance JBS or SIR diode or a PIN diode that is optimized for speed rather than on state voltage can be used as the external diode. This may also permit a JBS or SIR external diode to be used in place of an external PIN diode.

An SIR diode structure is illustrated in the partial cross section illustration of . An equivalent circuit for the SIR diode structure of is shown schematically in . Referring to an SIR diode structure includes an n substrate on which an n drift layer is formed. The substrate may include for example an off axis silicon carbide substrate of the 4H or 6H polytype and may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E17 to about 1E20 cm. The n drift layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E14 to about 1E18 cm and may have a thickness of about 1 m to about 200 m. As noted above the thickness and doping of the drift layer may be chosen to provide acceptable voltage blocking characteristics as well as an acceptable level of on resistance.

A p body implant region is formed in the drift layer for example by implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron. The p body implant region may have a doping concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may extend to a depth of about 1 m into the drift layer . The p body implant region forms a p n junction J with the drift layer . Accordingly the p body implant the drift layer and the substrate form a PIN structure.

An n epitaxial layer is formed on the drift layer including the p body implant region and forms an SIR channel layer for the device as explained more fully below. The SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m. The SIR channel layer forms an SIR channel having a length L as indicated in .

A p body epitaxial layer is formed on the SIR channel layer . The p body epitaxial layer has a thickness and doping chosen such that the SIR channel is fully depleted at zero applied anode to cathode voltage. In some embodiments the p body epitaxial layer may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.2 m to about 1.5 m.

An n SIR contactor region is formed at the surface of the device and within the p body implant region for example by ion implantation of n type impurities such as nitrogen and or phosphorus and extends from the surface of the device through the p body epitaxial layer and the n SIR channel and into the p body implant region . The n SIR contactor region may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm.

A p body contactor region is formed at the surface of the device and adjacent the n SIR contactor region for example by ion implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron and extends from the surface of the device through the n SIR contactor region and into the p body implant region . The p body contactor region may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm.

An anode contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel is formed on the surface of the p body epitaxial layer and forms an ohmic contact with the n SIR contactor region and the p body contactor region . A cathode contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel forms an ohmic contact on the substrate .

As an alternative a recess etch may be performed through the p body epitaxial layer in order to enable contact to the p body region and or the SIR channel .

As shown in the equivalent circuit of the SIR channel forms a parallel shunt to the PN junction J between the p body region and the n drift layer . The resistance of the drift layer is modulated by minority carrier injection from the PN junction J as shown by the dotted line .

In the structure of the length dopant density and thickness of the n SIR channel are chosen so that the SIR channel layer is completely depleted at zero applied anode cathode voltage. Referring to when the cathode terminal is made more positive than the anode terminal the SIR channel remains depleted and the device blocks voltage due to the presence of a depletion region extending into the thick low doped drift layer . Conversely when the cathode terminal voltage is reduced sufficiently below the anode terminal voltage by an amount referred to herein as the SIR threshold the width of the depletion region in the SIR channel is reduced and a space charge neutral conductive channel is formed in the SIR channel enabling current to flow between the n SIR contactor region and the n drift layer . The shunt channel may also reduce the potential barrier formed by the body enabling injection of majority carriers from the SIR channel into the SIR contactor. The mode of operation in which current flows primarily through the SIR channel is referred to herein as the SIR mode. The SIR threshold is determined primarily by the dopant density and thickness of the SIR channel and may be designed for example to be about 1V. As the voltage on the cathode terminal is further reduced a resistive voltage drop occurs across both the SIR channel and the drift layer .

As noted above a PIN diode is formed by the body to drift layer junction J. When this junction is forward biased beyond the built in potential of the junction approximately 3 V for SiC excess minority carriers are injected into the drift layer resulting in conductivity modulation. This injected excess carrier charge results in slow switching speeds because the charge must decay i.e. the excess minority carriers in the drift region must recombine before the device will stop conducting. The excess carrier charge can also cause degradation of the SiC material. A purpose of the SIR channel is to shunt the current from the body to drift layer junction J which may prevent the junction J from injecting minority carriers into the drift layer . The SIR channel also provides current at voltages less than 3 V and thus may provide lower rectifier on state losses than a PIN diode for low current conditions.

When the current flowing through the device is increased above a value referred to herein as the PIN transition current threshold the junction voltage of the body to drift layer junction J becomes larger than the turn on voltage of the junction e.g. about 3 V and the body to drift layer junction J begins to inject minority carriers into the drift layer similar to PIN diode operation.

The PIN transition current threshold is a function of temperature primarily due to the decrease in the mobility of the SIR channel with an increase in temperature. The effective channel width channel length and dopant density of the SIR channel affect the transition current at which the device enters the PIN mode in which current through the device is dominated by minority carrier injection across the body to drift layer junction J.

The SIR mode may have certain advantages. For example in the SIR mode the device may conduct current for voltages less than 3 V may have little or no reverse recovery charge and or may not suffer from crystal degradation as a result of minority carrier injection. For very high current density and or high temperatures the PIN mode may be used to provide conductivity modulation and or lower on resistance. A combination SIR PIN device can be made by designing the SIR channel such that the SIR channel voltage reaches the turn on voltage of the body to drift layer junction J i.e. about 3 V at a level of current where the PIN mode is beneficial.

A diode including an SIR channel according to embodiments of the invention may provide certain benefits compared to a conventional PIN diode. For example a device including an SIR channel according to embodiments of the invention may provide for bypassing the body to drift layer junction J thus reducing and or preventing the body to drift layer junction J from injecting majority carriers at low current densities and thus potentially decreasing the reverse recovery time and or crystal degradation at low current densities. In addition a device including an SIR channel according to embodiments of the invention may permit current to flow for voltages lower than the built in potential of the drain body junction J and thus may experience lower on state losses than a conventional PIN diode for low current densities.

An SIR device may also have advantages compared to a conventional Junction Barrier Schottky JBS diode because an SIR diode may not have a Schottky barrier that requires shielding so the SIR threshold for turn on can be made smaller than the Schottky barrier height required for a JBS diode. Furthermore the dopant density of the drift layer of a SIR diode can be made higher thus potentially resulting in a lower specific on resistance. A PIN SIR device i.e. a device that crosses over from SIR mode to PIN mode at a predetermined current density may also have advantages compared to a merged PIN Schottky in the selectivity of the current density at which the transition to PIN mode occurs.

A power MOSFET structure including SIR channel shunts is illustrated in the partial cross section illustration of . An equivalent circuit for the SIR MOSFET structure of is shown schematically in . Referring to an SIR MOSFET structure includes an n substrate on which an n drift layer is formed. The substrate may include for example an off axis silicon carbide substrate of the 4H or 6H polytype and may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E17 to about 1E20 cm. The n drift layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E14 to about 1E18 cm and may have a thickness of about 1 m to about 200 m. As noted above the thickness and doping of the drift layer may be chosen to provide acceptable voltage blocking characteristics as well as an acceptable level of on resistance.

A p body implant region is formed in the drift layer for example by implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron. The p body implant region may have a doping concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may extend a depth of about 1 m into the drift layer . The p body implant forms a p n junction J with the drift layer . Accordingly the p body implant region the drift layer and the substrate form an inherent PIN structure in the MOSFET device .

An n epitaxial layer is formed on the drift layer including the p body implant region and forms an SIR channel layer for the device . The SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m. The SIR channel layer forms an SIR channel having a length L as indicated in .

A p body epitaxial layer is formed on the SIR channel layer . The p body epitaxial layer has a thickness and doping chosen such that the SIR channel is fully depleted at zero applied voltage. In some embodiments the p body epitaxial layer may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.2 m to about 1.5 m.

An n channel threshold adjustment layer may be formed on in the p body epitaxial layer . The n channel threshold adjustment layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

An n source SIR contactor region is formed at the surface of the device and adjacent the p body implant region for example by ion implantation of n type impurities such as nitrogen and or phosphorus and extends from the surface of the device through the p body epitaxial layer and the SIR channel and into the p body implant region . The n source SIR contactor region may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm.

A p body contactor region is formed at the surface of the device and within the n SIR contactor region for example by ion implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron and extends from the surface of the device through the n SIR contactor region and into the p body implant region . The p body contactor region may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm.

An n neck implant region may be formed adjacent the p body region . The n neck implant region extends from the surface of the device into the drift layer . As illustrated in the n neck implant region may be formed between and in contact with a pair of adjacent body regions .

A gate insulator and gate contact are formed over the p body epitaxial layer and the n channel threshold adjustment layer between the n source SIR contactor region and the n neck implant region . The gate insulator may be for example an oxide such as silicon dioxide.

A source contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel is formed on the exposed surface of the epitaxial layers and forms an ohmic contact with the n source SIR contactor region and the p body contactor region . The n source SIR implant may be masked to provide electrical contact from the p body epitaxial layer to the p body contactor region and or the source contact as shown in the plan view illustration of . A drain contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel forms an ohmic contact on the substrate .

As shown in the equivalent circuit of the SIR channel forms a parallel shunt to the inherent PN junction J between the p body region and the n drift layer . The SIR channel permits current to flow in a direction from the source to the drain i.e. in a reverse direction from the normal direction of current flow in a power MOSFET device .

Referring to the MOSFET Q is formed at the surface of the body region beneath the gate and gate insulator where the n channel threshold adjustment layer is located. An inherent PIN diode is formed by the body to drift layer junction J referred to herein as the drain body junction J . When the drain body junction J is forward biased beyond the built in potential of the junction approximately 3 V for SiC minority carriers are injected into the drift layer . The purpose of the SIR channel is to shunt the current from the drain body junction J. This may prevent the drain body junction J from injecting minority carriers into the drift layer and or may provide diode current flow from the source to the drain of the device for voltages less than the turn on voltage of the drain body junction J e.g. about 3 V for SiC . The SIR channel layer can be formed using any method that forms thin n channels through the body region of the Power MOSFET including the growth of thin epitaxial layers and or ion implantation. In some embodiments the SIR channel layer may be merged with the n threshold adjustment layer as explained more fully below.

In the structure illustrated in the length dopant density and thickness of the n SIR channel may be chosen such that the SIR channel is completely depleted at zero applied drain source voltage. When the drain terminal is made more positive than the source terminal the SIR channel remains depleted and the device blocks voltage as determined by the dopant density and thickness of the drift layer . Conversely when the drain voltage is reduced sufficiently below the source voltage the width of the depletion region within the SIR channel is reduced and the SIR channel becomes conductive thereby enabling current to flow between the n SIR contactor and the n drift layer . As the drain voltage is reduced further a resistive voltage drop occurs across both the SIR channel and the drift layer .

Above the PIN transition current threshold the voltage across the drain body junction J becomes larger the turn on voltage of the junction J and the drain body junction J begins to inject minority carriers into the drift layer . The PIN transition current threshold is a function of temperature primarily due to the decrease in mobility of the SIR channel with increased temperature. The SIR effective channel width channel length and or dopant density may determine the PIN transition current threshold.

In a power MOSFET device the SIR mode may have certain advantages over conventional MOSFET devices. For example an SIR MOSFET may conduct reverse current at source to drain voltages less than 3 V may have little or no reverse recovery charge and may not suffer crystal degradation as a result of minority carrier injection into the drift layer . For high current densities and or high temperatures the PIN mode may provide conductivity modulation and or lower on resistance. If this is desired a combination SIR PIN can be made by designing the SIR channel conductance so that the SIR channel voltage reaches the turn on voltage of the drain body junction J at the current at which the PIN mode is beneficial.

In some embodiments an external PIN JBS or SIR diode can be provided to improve the high current conduction in which case the internal PIN diode can be made to not inject. Thus forward bias degradation within the MOSFET may be avoided while the external diode can be designed for speed and or forward bias degradation immunity.

Referring now to the threshold voltage adjustment layer such as the n channel threshold adjustment layer shown in can also be designed to form an SIR channel providing reverse conducting drain body junction shunts while also retaining the desired threshold voltage adjustment properties for MOSFET forward bias operation. For example in the device illustrated in a combined threshold adjustment layer SIR channel layer is provided between the n source SIR contactor region and the n neck implant region . The SIR channel layer forms an SIR channel having a length L as indicated in .

For MOSFET forward drain voltage operation the total charge per unit area of the threshold voltage adjustment SIR channel layer or layers can be designed such that the SIR channel is fully depleted by the p body region while the gate voltage is less than or equal to zero and the drain voltages is greater than zero to prevent leakage for forward voltage blocking . In addition the merged threshold voltage adjustment SIR channel layer can be designed such that the MOSFET channel threshold voltage is above zero for the full operating temperature range to provide normally off operation . Thus the same layer or layers used for the threshold adjustment can also be designed to have sufficient SIR channel conduction in the reverse direction for gate voltages near zero to prevent the drain body PN junction J from injecting for a range of currents and temperatures.

In some embodiments the merged threshold voltage adjustment SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

A SIR MOSFET including a merged SIR channel threshold adjustment layer may have some advantages compared to an SIR MOSFET having separate SIR channels in that it may require fewer processing steps to produce and connect the SIR channels. However a disadvantage of the merged structure is that there is a trade off between the requirements for the MOSFET channel adjustment function and the reverse conducting SIR function. This trade off may limit the ability of a device to obtain a high PIN transition current. An additional disadvantage of the merged SIR channel threshold adjust layer is that the gate voltage may reduce the SIR channel conductance for gate voltages below zero. Accordingly the gate drive circuit may be designed to switch the gate to zero voltage rather than to a negative voltage during the MOSFET off state.

The operation of reverse conducting SIR channels may be demonstrated using a power MOSFET with SIR drain body junction shunts that are merged with threshold adjust layer as in the embodiments of because the MOSFET gate voltage can be used to show the drain body PN junction behavior with and without the SIR channels conducting. In addition the MOSFET channel can be used to provide a reference to the resistance of the drift layer. illustrate the static and dynamic performance of a 0.15 cm 10 kV SiC Power MOSFET including SIR drain body junction shunts that are merged with a threshold adjust layer for various bias conditions at 125 C.

In particular is a graph of measured drain current versus drain source voltage for a power MOSFET including SIR drain body junction shunts that are merged with a threshold adjust layer while is a graph of measured drain current and drain voltage versus time for the power MOSFET of . The static characteristics shown in are for gate source voltages Vgs of 20 V 0 V and 20 V.

As shown by curve a Vgs of 20 V results in the formation of a low resistance MOSFET channel in series with the drift layer resistance. Thus at a gate source voltage Vgs of 20V the device operates similar to a conventional power MOSFET. The induced MOSFET channel also shunts the drain body PN junction J preventing minority carrier injection. However this mode of operation is not readily used for reverse bias rectification because it may require synchronization of the gate voltage with the reverse conduction events such as in a synchronous rectifier .

The 0 V curve curve in shows that a gate source voltage Vgs of 0 V results in a reverse conducting SIR channel that begins to conduct at a drain voltage of about 1.25 V. As the drain voltage is reduced further the voltage across the SIR channel reaches approximately 2 V and the voltage drop across the drift layer resistance is the same as that for the 20 V curve i.e. the two curves are parallel with a 2 V offset .

For a gate source voltage Vgs of 20 V illustrated by curve neither a MOSFET channel nor an SIR channel are formed and the drain body junction J conducts all of the current as indicated by the 3 V built in potential and the exponential shape of the drain current.

As shown in the reverse recovery charge i.e. the area below zero current for curves and in is much larger for the 20 V curve curve because the drain body PN junction J injects minority carriers into the drift layer that must decay during the reverse recovery event. A comparison of the drain voltage curves and shows that the device switches to a blocking state faster when an SIR channel is formed.

As shown in the reverse recovery time for a gate source voltage Vgs of 0 V may be similar for temperatures less than 125 C. because the reverse recovery time may be determined by the drain body junction capacitance and not by the injection of minority carrier charge. In contrast as shown in the reverse recovery time for a gate source voltage Vgs of 20 V case may increase continuously from 25 C. to 200 C. because the reverse recovery time is affected by minority carrier injection and by excess carrier decay time which increases with temperature.

It should be noted that the PIN diode in the MOSFET device of may have relatively low excess carrier injection due to the low lifetime of the drift layer and or implant damage at the drain body junction. This may result in a relatively faster speed but lower conduction capability than typical PIN diodes with more excess carrier injection. Even with the relatively low excess minority carrier injection however the switching losses are much lower with the reverse conducting SIR drain body junction shunts which may lead to substantial efficiency and or cooling benefits for high frequency e.g. 20 kHz switching.

For example the SIR mode illustrated in curve of results in 50 W conduction loss at 5 A while the PIN mode illustrated in curve results in 42 W at 5 A or 167 W cmand 140 W cmrespectively for a 0.15 cmdevice active area at 50 duty cycle. The switching energy loss in the diode plus that induced in the complementary MOSFET due to the diode reverse recovery is essentially equal to the diode reverse recovery charge times the device operating voltage. For the 5A current waveforms of and a typical 5 kV operating voltage for the 10 kV device design the switching energy for this example is approximately 10 mJ cmfor the SIR mode and 40 mJ cmfor the PIN mode. Multiplying this switching energy loss by 20 kHz results in 200 W cmfor the SIR mode and 800 W cmfor the PIN diode mode. It should be noted that the 867 W cmtotal loss for the PIN diode mode in this example is well beyond the cooling capability of typical power device packages whereas the MOSFET with reverse conducting SIR drain body shunts would be suitable for typical power device package cooling capability with currents approaching 30 A cm.

Some additional embodiments of a SIR MOSFET are illustrated in . For example a SIR MOSFET shown in includes a lateral n SIR connector region that extends laterally from a vertical n contactor region to the SIR channel . Additional implant regions may provide electrical contact to the other regions within the body. For example the p implant region may provide contact to the lower body region the p implant region may provide contact to the upper body region and the n implant region may form the source contact for the MOSFET channel.

The formation of an SIR diode according to some embodiments of the invention is illustrated in . Referring to an n substrate is provided and an n drift layer is formed on the substrate for example by epitaxial growth. The substrate may include for example an off axis silicon carbide substrate of the 4H or 6H polytype and may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E17 to about 1E20 cm. The n drift layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E14 to about 1E18 cm and may have a thickness of about 1 m to about 200 m. As noted above the thickness and doping of the drift layer may be chosen to provide acceptable voltage blocking characteristics as well as an acceptable level of on resistance.

P body implant regions are formed in the drift layer for example by selective implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron. The p body implant regions may have a doping concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may extend a depth of about 1 m into the drift layer . In particular embodiments the p body implant regions may be formed by implanting Al ions at an implant energy of about 360 keV and a dose of about 4E14 ions cm.

Referring to an n epitaxial layer is formed on the drift layer including the p body implant regions to form an SIR channel layer for the device . The SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

A p body epitaxial layer is formed on the SIR channel layer . The p body epitaxial layer has a thickness and doping chosen such that the SIR channel layer is fully depleted at zero applied voltage. In some embodiments the p body epitaxial layer may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.2 to about 1.5 m.

In some embodiments the SIR channel layer may be formed by implantation of n type impurities into the p body implant regions to form buried n regions which may obviate the need for the p body epitaxial layer . In this embodiment a Schottky junction is formed for the portions of the drift layer at the surface in contact with the metal contact described below.

Referring to n SIR contactor regions are formed at the surface of the device and within the area of the p body implant regions for example by ion implantation of n type impurities such as nitrogen and or phosphorus and extend from the surface of the device through the n SIR channel and into the p body implant regions . The n SIR contactor regions may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm. In particular embodiments the n SIR contactor regions may be formed by implanting N ions at an implant energy of about 100 keV and a dose of about 1E15 ions cm.

P body contactor regions are formed at the surface of the device and within the n SIR contactor regions for example by ion implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron and extend from the surface of the device through the n SIR contactor regions and into the p body implant regions . The p body contactor regions may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm. In particular embodiments the p body contactor regions may be formed by implanting Al ions at an implant energy of about 180 keV and a dose of about 1E15 ions cm.

Referring to an anode contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel is formed on the surface of the p body epitaxial layer and forms an ohmic contact with the n SIR contactor regions and the p body contactor regions . A cathode contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel forms an ohmic contact on the substrate .

The formation of an SIR power MOSFET according to some embodiments of the invention is illustrated in .

Referring to an n substrate is provided and an n drift layer is formed on the substrate . The substrate which forms a drain region of the MOSFET may include for example an off axis silicon carbide substrate of the 4H or 6H polytype and may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E17 to about 1E20 cm. The n drift layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E14 to about 1E18 cm and may have a thickness of about 1 to about 200 m. As noted above the thickness and doping of the drift layer may be chosen to provide acceptable voltage blocking characteristics as well as an acceptable level of on resistance.

P body implant regions are formed in the drift layer for example by implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron. The p body implant regions may have a doping concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may extend a depth of about 1 m into the drift layer . In particular embodiments the p body implant regions may be formed by implanting Al ions at an implant energy of about 360 keV and a dose of about 4E14 ions cm.

Referring to an n epitaxial layer is formed on the drift layer including the p body implant regions and forms an SIR channel layer for the device . The SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

A p body epitaxial layer is formed on the SIR channel layer . The p body epitaxial layer has a thickness and doping chosen such that the SIR channel layer is fully depleted at zero applied voltage. In some embodiments the p body epitaxial layer may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E16 to about 1E20 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.2 to about 1 m.

In some embodiments the SIR channel layer may be formed by implantation of n type impurities into the p body implant regions to form buried n regions which may obviate the need for the p body epitaxial layer .

An n channel threshold adjustment layer may be formed on the p body epitaxial layer . The n channel threshold adjustment layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m. The n channel threshold adjustment layer may be formed by implantation and or epitaxial growth.

Referring to n source SIR contactor regions are formed at the surface of the device and within the p body implant regions for example by ion implantation of n type impurities such as nitrogen and or phosphorus and extend from the surface of the device through the SIR channel and into the p body implant regions . The n source SIR contactor regions may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm. In particular embodiments the n source SIR contactor regions may be formed by implanting N ions at an implant energy of about 100 keV and a dose of about 1E15 ions cm.

P body contactor regions are formed at the surface of the device and within the n SIR contactor regions for example by ion implantation of p type impurities such as aluminum and or boron and extends from the surface of the device through the n SIR contactor regions and into the p body implant region . The p body contactor regions may be doped with p type dopants at a concentration of about 1E18 to about 1E21 cm. In particular embodiments the p body contactor regions may be formed by implanting Al ions at an implant energy of about 360 keV and a dose of about 4E14 ions cm.

An n neck implant region may be formed adjacent the p body regions . The n neck implant region extends from the surface of the device into the drift layer . As illustrated in the n neck implant region may be formed between and in contact with a pair of adjacent body regions . In particular embodiments the n neck implant region may be formed by implanting N ions at an implant energy of about 360 keV and a dose of about 5E11 ions cm.

Referring to a gate insulator and gate contact are formed over the p body epitaxial layer and the n channel threshold adjustment layer between the n source SIR contactor regions and the n neck implant region . The gate insulator may include a thermal oxide and the gate electrode may include polysilicon and or a refractory metal such as Mo.

A source contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel is formed on the exposed surface of the epitaxial layers and forms an ohmic contact with the n source SIR contactor regions and the p body contactor regions . The p body epitaxial layer may be in electrical contact with the source contact and or in electrical contact with the p body contactor regions in regions where the n source SIR contactor regions implants are masked. A drain contact of for example aluminum titanium and or nickel forms an ohmic contact on the substrate .

The formation of an SIR power MOSFET including merged SIR channels and threshold adjustment layers according to some embodiments of the invention is illustrated in . The formation of an SIR power MOSFET including merged SIR channels and threshold adjustment layers is similar to the process described above with reference to except that a merged threshold voltage adjustment SIR channel layer is formed on the drift layer . The merged threshold voltage adjustment SIR channel layer may be doped with n type dopants at a concentration of about 1E15 to about 5E17 cm and may have a thickness of about 0.05 m to about 1 m.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

