---

title: Trainer for robotic vehicle
abstract: A trainer for training a human to use a physical robot in a physical environment, the physical robot being controlled in the physical environment by an operator control unit, the trainer comprising an input device; a visual display; a computer connected to the input device and the visual display; and computer software disposed in the computer for creating a virtual robot and a virtual environment on the visual display, the virtual robot and the virtual environment being simulations of the physical robot and the physical environment wherein interaction between the virtual robot and the virtual environment simulates interaction between the physical robot and the physical environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860614&OS=07860614&RS=07860614
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07860614
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060911
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application 60 596 277 filed on Sep. 13 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to robotic vehicles and in particular to training humans to operate robotic vehicles. One use for the robotic vehicle is for the safe removal and or detonation of unknown explosive devices.

It is an object of the invention to provide a trainer for training human beings to use and operate a robot.

It is another object of the invention to provide a trainer that includes a computer simulation of a robot.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a trainer that can simulate a robot interacting with its environment.

Another object of the invention is to provide a trainer for training human beings to dispose of explosive devices using a robot.

One aspect of the invention is a trainer for training a human to use a physical robot in a physical environment the physical robot being controlled in the physical environment by an operator control unit the trainer comprising an input device a visual display a computer connected to the input device and the visual display and computer software disposed in the computer for creating a virtual robot and a virtual environment on the visual display the virtual robot and the virtual environment being simulations of the physical robot and the physical environment wherein interaction between the virtual robot and the virtual environment simulates interaction between the physical robot and the physical environment.

Preferably the input device is a virtual operator control unit that is substantially the same as the operator control unit in appearance and function. The physical robot may be a mobile vehicle and the virtual robot may be a simulation of the mobile vehicle. The physical robot may be one of a tracked vehicle and a wheeled vehicle and the virtual robot may be a simulation of one of the tracked vehicle and the wheeled vehicle respectively.

Preferably the physical robot includes a segmented arm and at least one camera and the virtual robot simulates the segmented arm and the at least one camera. The computer software may include a training application having a graphical user interface. The training application may include a simulation of explosive disposal methods wherein the virtual robot interacts with the virtual environment. The interactions between the virtual robot and the virtual environment are substantially in accord with Newtonian physics.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of training a human being to use a physical robot in a physical environment the physical robot being controlled in the physical environment by an operator control unit the method comprising providing a trainer having an input device a visual display and a computer connected to the input device and the visual display loading the computer with computer software for creating a virtual robot and a virtual environment on the visual display the virtual robot and the virtual environment being simulations of the physical robot and the physical environment wherein interaction between the virtual robot and the virtual environment simulates interaction between the physical robot and the physical environment.

Preferably the input device is a virtual operator control unit that is substantially the same as the operator control unit in appearance and function.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention is a training method and apparatus for teaching human beings to use and operate robots. In one embodiment of the invention the training apparatus and method is for teaching human beings to properly dispose of improvised explosive devices IEDs using a robot. Trainees may include military and civilian bomb disposal units among others.

The robots are mobile lightweight electro mechanical vehicles that may be tracked or wheeled. The robot includes at least one segmented movable arm and at least one camera. The robot includes an operator control unit OCU that communicates with the robot wirelessly or through a cable. The robot may also include one or more weapon systems. While many different types of robots may be used two examples of suitable robots are Foster Miller s TALON robot and iRobot s PACKBOT.

Various cameras may be provided such as a gripper camera a rear facing camera an elbow camera and a zoom camera mounted on mast . Each camera may included a pan and or tilt mechanism for panning and tilting. A speaker microphone antennae and fiber optic cable spool may also be provided. The OCU includes a visual display that corresponds to one or more camera views and a control panel .

The inventive trainer is a combination of software and hardware. is a schematic diagram of one embodiment of a trainer . The trainer includes a computer with an input device and a visual display . The trainer provides a computer simulation of an actual robot such as the robot . For the purposes of this patent an actual physical robot such as the TALON robot is referred to as the physical robot and the computerized simulation of the physical robot is referred to as the virtual robot. The real world surroundings of the physical robot is the physical environment and the computerized simulation of the physical environment is the virtual environment. When loaded in the computer the trainer software provides visual images of the virtual robot and the virtual environment that simulate the physical robot and the physical environment. In addition the software provides for interactions between the virtual robot and the virtual environment that simulate interactions between the physical robot and the physical environment.

The input device may be a conventional computer keyboard or a joystick apparatus. It is preferred that the trainer simulate the physical robot as much as possible. Therefore the input device should be as similar to the OCU as possible. This is accomplished by using a virtual operator control unit VOCU as the input device for the trainer . The VOCU is an actual physical apparatus used by the trainee to control the virtual robot. The VOCU imitates the appearance and functionality of the OCU . Thus it is preferred that the VOCU be packaged in a container having the same size and appearance as the OCU . Also the visual display should be located in the container for the VOCU as is the case for the OCU .

The VOCU may be constructed using controls buttons switches etc. that are identical to those of the OCU . The controls of the VOCU are connected via a USB kit to the trainer computer s USB port. The VOCU appears on the visual display as a multi axis multi button joystick. The joystick s inputs are accessed by the computer software. The external appearance of the control panel for the VOCU is virtually identical to the appearance of the control panel of the OCU . The various controls on the OCU are duplicated on the VOCU . As shown in the VOCU has analog inputs digital inputs and a USB kit . The VOCU is cabled to the computer . The analog and digital inputs may be adjusted by various known control devices such as joysticks toggle switches rotary dials etc.

The digital controls are 1 Gripper Open for opening gripper 2 Gripper Close for closing gripper 3 Camera 4 Way provides a four way split video display showing views from all four cameras and simultaneously 4 Camera Elbow Camera Gripper Camera Front Camera Rear changes the video display to the selected camera view 5 Stow Arm stows the segmented arm 6 Pan Tilt Up Down Left and Right moves camera 7 Zoom In Out controls the lens of camera 8 Wrist Left Right controls the rotation of wrist 9 Roll Stop provides an emergency brake 10 Fire activates an electronic circuit capable of remotely initiating events 11 Arm and Arm are safety switches to ensure the intent to activate the firing circuit.

Referring again to computer is loaded with a training application software . Training application includes an input handling subsystem a mission selection graphical user interface GUI and one or more training missions selected from the GUI . In one embodiment of the invention the training application is designed for IED handling and the training mission includes the virtual robot an IED manager and one or more IEDs . Personnel are trained in the disposal of IEDs using the virtual robot to locate the IED and properly place an explosive charge such as C4 on or near the IED .

In one embodiment of a trainer application for training bomb disposal personnel the trainer begins by presenting the trainee with a GUI . The GUI guides the trainee through the process of selecting the desired training. is a flow chart of the GUI . At the first screen S she can choose either a driving training no IEDs S or incident training S IEDs . If she selects driving training S she is presented a second display that provides a briefing of the mission environment before the start of the mission. The driving training mission does not involve IEDs. Driving training teaches operation of the robot controls by providing for example a road to follow.

If incident training S is selected the trainee is presented a display S asking her to choose between timed or un timed incident training. If timed incident training S is selected she is presented another display S requiring two inputs 1 a number of IEDs to be disabled and 2 a selection of training routes. After she inputs the required information another display provides a mission briefing before starting the mission.

If untimed incident training S is selected she is presented another display S requiring two inputs 1 a number of IEDs to be disabled and 2 a selection of training routes. After she inputs the required information another display provides a mission briefing before starting the mission. On the final three screens presented to the trainee in each mission driving training timed incident training and untimed incident training there is a deploy button that starts the mission. Upon clicking the deploy button data is collected and sent to the mission. The collected and sent data includes 1 whether the mission is driving or incident training 2 if incident training whether it is timed or untimed 3 if incident training the number of IEDs to randomly place and 4 if incident training the routes to use for training.

In one embodiment of a training application there are four types of IEDs although more or less types of IEDs may be used. The four types are 1 standard 2 timed 3 movable and 4 daisy chain sympathetic detonation . To dispose of a standard IED the trainee places an active explosive within the standard IED s sensitive radius. The active explosive may be for example C4.

A timed IED includes a timer controller that is located nearby. To dispose of a timed IED the trainee may dispose of either the timer controller or the timed IED itself. To dispose of either the timer controller or the timed IED the trainee must place C4 within that object s sensitive radius.

Daisy chain IEDs designed for sympathetic detonation are newer threats to soldiers. Daisy chain IEDs include a single daisy chain controller. The key to removal is to destroy the daisy chain controller first. Once the daisy chain controller is destroyed the daisy chain IED is considered safe. If a daisy chain IED is destroyed by C4 before the daisy chain controller is destroyed all the daisy chain IEDs connected to and controlled by the daisy chain controller will detonate.

During an incident training mission a trainee will fail if any of the following conditions occur 1 The virtual robot is within the damage radius of C4 when it detonates. 2 The virtual robot is within the damage radius of an IED when it detonates. 3 The timer controller on a timed IED expires and the IED detonates before being rendered safe. 4 A daisy chain IED that is connected to a daisy chain controller is destroyed before the daisy chain controller is destroyed. 5 A movable IED is destroyed outside of a Disposal Area. If the trainee disposes of all IEDs located in the mission environment without failing see above conditions she passes the mission.

As mentioned before in driving training there are no IEDs. In timed or untimed incident training the mission environment consists of regions. A region is either a Route road or a Disposal Area. Along the routes are a plurality of IED candidate positions. The IED candidate positions represent all the locations where an IED may appear. There is no limit to the number of IED candidate positions that can be placed in the mission environment. A class named IED Manager manages the IEDs.

In step S the IED Manager receives the data collected by the GUI. In step S the IED Manager examines the number of IEDs chosen. If zero IEDs are chosen then the mission is a driving training mission and the IED Manager proceeds to S. In a driving training mission all IED candidate positions are ignored and no IEDs are physically placed in the mission.

If the number of IEDs is other than zero then the mission is an incident training mission and the IED Manager proceeds to S. At S the IED Manager examines whether the incident training mission is timed or untimed. If a timed incident training mission is requested the IED Manager proceeds to S. At S the IED Manager reviews the list of IEDs and selects from it the number of timer controlled IEDs selected by the trainee on the route or routes selected by the trainee. These IEDs and their controllers are then physically placed into the mission environment. The timers are set depending on the number of IEDs chosen and their locations.

If an untimed training mission is requested the IED Manager proceeds to S. At S the IED Manager reviews the list of IEDs and selects from it the number of IEDs selected by the trainee on the route or routes selected by the trainee. These IEDs are then physically placed into the mission. If a timer controlled IED is selected the timer is disabled and the timer controller is not physically placed. Finally the mission is started.

The IED Manager ensures that every time a trainee starts a mission the IEDs will rarely be in the same place twice. This randomness helps to keep the trainee interested and prevents her from committing the solution to memory thereby reinforcing the process required for success and survival.

The trainer software may be designed for any computer or game system platform including but not limited to Macintosh UNIX Linux Windows Xbox etc. A useful starting point is Epic s Unreal Game Engine 2.5. The Unreal Game Engine has a class of vehicles called TreadCraft. TreadCraft may be used to create the virtual chassis or platform . For training purposes it is important that the interaction of the virtual robot and the virtual environment simulate as closely as possible the interaction of the physical robot and the physical environment.

To enable the virtual robot to interact with the virtual environment the Unreal physics engine called Karma may be used. The Karma physics engine is a rigid body physics engine developed by MathEngine. It provides physics modeling rigid body dynamics with constraints and collision detection. Using a variety of computational strategies to simplify speed up and exclude non interacting objects it achieves animation level speed without sacrificing physical fidelity. Each simulated object has its own mass and inertia obeys Newton s laws of motion and interacts with other objects according to mass inertia friction restitution and gravity. Every object has kinematic attributes that describe its position and movement such as position of the center of mass orientation of the body acceleration velocity of the center of mass and angular acceleration velocity which describes the change of orientation. Forces and torques are the dynamic attributes used in Karma.

In the inventive trainer virtual components that are attached to the virtual chassis such as the segmented arm and cameras are Karma Actors and can interact with the virtual environment. Virtual components are attached to the virtual chassis with a Karma Hinge. A Karma Hinge may be controlled as a simple one degree of freedom DOF spring loaded hinge or a motorized hinge. By connecting virtual components Karma Actors to the virtual chassis using Karma Hinges interactions of the virtual robot and the virtual environment are substantially in accord with Newtonian or classical physics.

For example the physical robot s segmented arm comprises a lower arm connected to the chassis with motorized hinge and an upper arm connected to the lower arm via motorized hinge . The gripper is connected to the upper arm via the rotatable wrist . In the virtual robot the lower arm is a Karma Actor connected to the chassis with a Karma Hinge. The upper arm is a Karma Actor connected to the lower arm with a Karma Hinge. The gripper is a Karma Actor connected to the upper arm with a Karma Hinge. Each of the Karma Actors in the chain of components is able to interact realistically with the virtual environment. By using the Karma Actors and Karma Hinges the virtual creations obey the Newtonian laws of physics. For example if the virtual robot encounters a wall the arm will strike the wall stopping the robot rather than continuing through the wall as if it were not there. The simulation of Newtonian physics is important to the success of the trainer.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

