---

title: Influenza vaccines extemporaneously adsorbed to aluminium adjuvants
abstract: Antigen and adjuvant components of an adjuvanted influenza vaccine are not mixed during manufacture, but are provided as separate components for extemporaneous mixing at the time of use, for example as a kit comprising (i) an antigen component, comprising an influenza virus antigen; and (ii) an adjuvant component, comprising an aluminium salt.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07959931&OS=07959931&RS=07959931
owner: Novartis AG
number: 07959931
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20061106
---
This application is a national stage application of PCT GB2006 004138 filed Nov. 6 2006 which claims the benefit of Serial No. GB 0522601.4 filed Nov. 4 2005 and Ser. No. 60 735 605 filed Nov. 9 2005. Each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made in whole or in part with support from United States Government Contract HHSN266200400032C from the National Institutes of Health National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Accordingly the United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention is in the field of adjuvanted vaccines for protecting against influenza virus infection.

Except for the FLUAD product from Chiron Vaccines which includes an oil in water emulsion adjuvant influenza vaccines currently in general use are unadjuvanted. These vaccines are described in more detail in chapters 17 18 of reference 1. They are based on live virus or inactivated virus and inactivated vaccines can be based on whole virus split virus or on purified surface antigens including haemagglutinin and neuraminidase .

More recently the inclusion of aluminium salt adjuvants has been suggested for influenza vaccines e.g. see references 2 5 . As well as requiring extra mixing steps during manufacture thereby slowing down overall manufacture inclusion of these salts is associated with various problems. For example their insolubility means that adsorbed antigens settle from suspension so preparation of individual doses from bulk vaccine requires extra care. In addition binding of antigen to the salts complicates quality control of the final vaccines. In particular some potency tests for influenza vaccines are based on in vitro immunoassays that require unbound antigen i.e. adsorption to the adjuvant means that these tests cannot be used.

It is an object of the invention to provide further and improved adjuvanted influenza vaccines for both pandemic and interpandemic use and methods for their preparation.

According to the invention the antigen and adjuvant components of an adjuvanted influenza vaccine are not mixed during manufacture but are provided as separate components for extemporaneous mixing at the time of use. The invention is effective only because it has been found see examples herein that adsorption of the antigen to the adjuvant occurs substantially instantaneously and is irreversible under the conditions experienced during vaccination. Thus the invention avoids the various problems that arise from performing the mixing during manufacture.

Therefore the invention provides a kit comprising i an antigen component comprising an influenza virus antigen and ii an adjuvant component comprising an aluminium salt. Component i does not include an aluminium salt adjuvant and component ii does not include an influenza virus antigen.

The invention also provides i an antigen component comprising an influenza virus antigen and ii an adjuvant component comprising an aluminium salt for simultaneous separate or sequential use.

The invention also provides an immunogenic composition comprising an influenza virus antigen and an aluminium salt adjuvant wherein the composition was prepared by extemporaneous mixing of the antigen and adjuvant at the point of use.

The invention also provides a process for preparing an influenza vaccine comprising the steps of i preparing an antigen component comprising an influenza virus antigen ii preparing an adjuvant component comprising an aluminium salt and iii combining the antigen and adjuvant components into a kit. The process may also provide the step of iv mixing the antigen and adjuvant components for administration to a patient but step iv will typically be performed by a healthcare professional at the time of use rather than by a manufacturer.

The invention also provides a process for preparing and administering an influenza vaccine comprising the steps of i mixing the components of a kit that comprises an antigen component comprising an influenza virus antigen and an adjuvant component comprising an aluminium salt and ii administering the mixed components to a patient. This process will typically involve shaking the adjuvant component to disperse any settled aluminium salts aseptically adding the antigen component to the adjuvant component inverting or gently shaking the mixed components withdrawing the mixed components into a syringe and administering the mixed components to the patient. Administration to a patient will typically take place less than 24 hours e.g. 18 hours 12 hours 6 hours 3 hours 2 hours 1 hour 30 minutes 20 minutes 10 minutes 5 minutes 2 minutes 1 minute etc. after the mixing.

Kits of the invention comprise two components one with antigen and one with adjuvant. These two components are kept separately in a kit until it is decided to prepare a vaccine for administration to a patient at which point the components are mixed to give a vaccine in which the antigen is adsorbed to the adjuvant.

The two components are thus physically separate from each other within the kit and this separation can be achieved in various ways. For instance the two components may be in two separate containers such as vials. The contents of the two vials can then be mixed e.g. by removing the contents of one vial and adding them to the other vial or by separately removing the contents of both vials and mixing them in a third container.

In a preferred arrangement one of the kit components is in a syringe and the other is in a container such as a vial. The pre filled syringe can be used e.g. with a needle to insert its contents into the second container for mixing and the mixture can then be withdrawn into the syringe. The mixed contents of the syringe can then be administered to a patient typically through a new sterile needle. Packing one component in a pre filled syringe thus eliminates the need for using a separate syringe for patient administration.

In another preferred arrangement the two kit components are held together but separately in the same syringe e.g. a dual chamber syringe such as those disclosed in references 6 13 etc. When the syringe is actuated e.g. during administration to a patient then the contents of the two chambers are mixed. This arrangement avoids the need for a separate mixing step at the time of use. The contents of the two chambers will generally both be in aqueous form.

In some arrangements one of the components typically the antigen component rather than the adjuvant component is in dry form e.g. in a lyophilised form with the other component being in aqueous form. The two components can be mixed in order to reactivate the dry component and give an aqueous composition for administration to a patient. In other less preferred arrangements both components are in dry form. A lyophilised component will typically be located within a vial rather than a syringe. Dried components may include stabilizers such as lactose sucrose or mannitol as well as mixtures thereof e.g. lactose sucrose mixtures sucrose mannitol mixtures etc.

One preferred arrangement uses an aqueous adjuvant component in a pre filled syringe and a lyophilised antigen component in a vial.

Where both components are aqueous they may be mixed at various volume ratios e.g. between 1 5 excess volume of aqueous antigen and 5 1 excess volume of aqueous adjuvant . A ratio of between 1 2 and 2 1 is preferred e.g. about 1 1.

Suitable containers for kits include vials and disposable syringes. These containers should be sterile.

Where a component is located in a vial the vial is preferably made of a glass or plastic material. The vial is preferably sterilized before the composition is added to it. To avoid problems with latex sensitive patients vials are preferably sealed with a latex free stopper and the absence of latex in all packaging material is preferred. The vial may include a single dose of vaccine or it may include more than one dose a multidose vial e.g. 10 doses. Preferred vials are made of colorless glass.

Influenza vaccines are typically administered in a dosage volume of about 0.5 ml although a half dose i.e. about 0.25 ml may be administered to children. Containers may be marked to show a half dose volume to facilitate the delivery of a half dose to children e.g. a syringe containing a 0.5 ml dose may have a mark showing a 0.25 ml volume.

A vial can have a cap e.g. a Luer lock adapted such that a pre filled syringe can be inserted into the cap the contents of the syringe can be expelled into the vial e.g. to reconstitute lyophilised material therein and the contents of the vial can be removed back into the syringe. After removal of the syringe from the vial a needle can then be attached and the composition can be administered to a patient. The cap is preferably located inside a seal or cover such that the seal or cover has to be removed before the cap can be accessed. A vial may have a cap that permits aseptic removal of its contents particularly for multidose vials.

Where a component is packaged into a syringe the syringe may have a needle attached to it. If a needle is not attached a separate needle may be supplied with the syringe for assembly and use. Such a needle may be sheathed. Safety needles are preferred. 1 inch 23 gauge 1 inch 25 gauge and inch 25 gauge needles are typical. Syringes may be provided with peel off labels on which the lot number and expiration date of the contents may be printed to facilitate record keeping. The plunger in the syringe preferably has a stopper to prevent the plunger from being accidentally removed during aspiration. The syringes may have a latex rubber cap and or plunger. Disposable syringes contain a single dose of vaccine. The syringe will generally have a tip cap to seal the tip prior to attachment of a needle and the tip cap is preferably made of a butyl rubber. If the syringe and needle are packaged separately then the needle is preferably fitted with a butyl rubber shield. Preferred syringes are those marketed under the trade name Tip Lok .

Where a glass container e.g. a syringe or a vial is used then it is preferred to use a container made from a borosilicate glass rather than from a soda lime glass.

The kit may include e.g. in the same box with a leaflet including details of the vaccine e.g. instructions for administration details of the antigens within the vaccine etc. The instructions may also contain warnings e.g. to keep a solution of adrenaline readily available in case of anaphylactic reaction following vaccination etc.

One of the kit components contains influenza virus antigen. These antigens will typically be prepared from influenza virions but as an alternative antigens such as haemagglutinin can be expressed in a recombinant host e.g. in an insect cell line using a baculovirus vector and used in purified form 14 15 . In general however antigens will be from virions.

The antigen may take the form of a live virus or more preferably an inactivated virus. Chemical means for inactivating a virus include treatment with an effective amount of one or more of the following agents detergents formaldehyde formalin propiolactone or UV light. Additional chemical means for inactivation include treatment with methylene blue psoralen carboxyfullerene C60 or a combination of any thereof. Other methods of viral inactivation are known in the art such as for example binary ethylamine acetyl ethyleneimine or gamma irradiation. The INFLEXAL product is a whole virion inactivated vaccine.

Where an inactivated virus is used the vaccine may comprise whole virus split virus or purified surface antigens including haemagglutinin and usually also including neuraminidase .

Virions can be harvested from virus containing fluids by various methods. For example a purification process may involve zonal centrifugation using a linear sucrose gradient solution that includes detergent to disrupt the virions. Antigens may then be purified after optional dilution by diafiltration.

Split viruses are obtained by treating virions with detergents e.g. ethyl ether polysorbate 80 deoxycholate tri N butyl phosphate Triton X 100 Triton N101 cetyltrimethylammonium bromide Tergitol NP9 etc. to produce subvirion preparations including the Tween ether splitting process. Methods of splitting influenza viruses are well known in the art e.g. see refs. 16 21 etc. Splitting of the virus is typically carried out by disrupting or fragmenting whole virus whether infectious or non infectious with a disrupting concentration of a splitting agent. The disruption results in a full or partial solubilisation of the virus proteins altering the integrity of the virus. Preferred splitting agents are non ionic and ionic e.g. cationic surfactants e.g. alkylglycosides alkylthioglycosides acyl sugars sulphobetaines betains polyoxyethylenealkylethers N N dialkyl Glucamides Hecameg alkylphenoxy polyethoxyethanols quaternary ammonium compounds sarcosyl CTABs cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromides tri N butyl phosphate Cetavlon myristyltrimethylammonium salts lipofectin lipofectamine and DOT MA the octyl or nonylphenoxy polyoxyethanols e.g. the Triton surfactants such as Triton X 100 or Triton N101 polyoxyethylene sorbitan esters the Tween surfactants polyoxyethylene ethers polyoxyethlene esters etc. One useful splitting procedure uses the consecutive effects of sodium deoxycholate and formaldehyde and splitting can take place during initial virion purification e.g. in a sucrose density gradient solution . Thus a splitting process can involve clarification of the virion containing material to remove non virion material concentration of the harvested virions e.g. using an adsorption method such as CaHPOadsorption separation of whole virions from non virion material splitting of virions using a splitting agent in a density gradient centrifugation step e.g. using a sucrose gradient that contains a splitting agent such as sodium deoxycholate and then filtration e.g. ultrafiltration to remove undesired materials. Split virions can usefully be resuspended in sodium phosphate buffered isotonic sodium chloride solution. The BEGRIVAC FLUARIX FLUZONE and FLUSHIELD products are split vaccines.

Purified surface antigen vaccines comprise the influenza surface antigens haemagglutinin and typically also neuraminidase. Processes for preparing these proteins in purified form are well known in the art. The FLUVIRIN AGRIPPAL and INFLUVAC products are subunit vaccines.

Influenza proteins other than HA and NA can also be used as the influenza antigen including fragments of natural proteins. Combinations thereof can also be used.

The influenza virus may be attenuated. The influenza virus may be temperature sensitive. The influenza virus may be cold adapted. These three possibilities apply in particular for live viruses.

Influenza virus strains for use in vaccines change from season to season. In the current inter pandemic period vaccines typically include two influenza A strains H1N1 and H3N2 and one influenza B strain and trivalent vaccines are typical. The invention may also use viruses from pandemic strains i.e. strains to which the vaccine recipient and the general human population are immunologically na ve such as H2 H5 H7 or H9 subtype strains in particular of influenza A virus and influenza vaccines for pandemic strains may be monovalent or may be based on a normal trivalent vaccine supplemented by a pandemic strain. Depending on the season and on the nature of the antigen included in the vaccine however the invention may protect against one or more of HA subtypes H1 H2 H3 H4 H5 H6 H7 H8 H9 H10 H11 H12 H13 H14 H15 or H16.

The adjuvanted compositions of the invention are particularly useful for immunizing against pandemic strains. The characteristics of an influenza strain that give it the potential to cause a pandemic outbreak are a it contains a new haemagglutinin compared to the haemagglutinins in currently circulating human strains i.e. one that has not been evident in the human population for over a decade e.g. H2 or has not previously been seen at all in the human population e.g. H5 H6 or H9 that have generally been found only in bird populations such that the human population will be immunologically na ve to the strain s haemagglutinin b it is capable of being transmitted horizontally in the human population and c it is pathogenic to humans. A virus with H5 haemagglutinin type is preferred for immunising against pandemic influenza such as a H5N1 strain. Other possible strains include H5N3 H9N2 H2N2 H7N1 and H7N7 and any other emerging potentially pandemic strains. Within the H5 subtype a virus may fall into HA clade 1 HA clade 1 HA clade 2 or HA clade 3 23 with clades 1 and 3 being particularly relevant.

Other strains that can usefully be included in the compositions are strains which are resistant to antiviral therapy e.g. resistant to oseltamivir 24 and or zanamivir including resistant pandemic strains 25 .

Compositions of the invention may include antigen s from one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or more influenza virus strains including influenza A virus and or influenza B virus. Where a vaccine includes more than one strain of influenza the different strains are typically grown separately and are mixed after the viruses have been harvested and antigens have been prepared. Thus a process of the invention may include the step of mixing antigens from more than one influenza strain. A trivalent vaccine is preferred including antigens from two influenza A virus strains and one influenza B virus strain although monovalent vaccines are also useful e.g. for pandemic strains .

The influenza virus may be a reassortant strain and may have been obtained by reverse genetics techniques. Reverse genetics techniques e.g. 26 30 allow influenza viruses with desired genome segments to be prepared in vitro using plasmids. Typically it involves expressing a DNA molecules that encode desired viral RNA molecules e.g. from polI promoters and b DNA molecules that encode viral proteins e.g. from polII promoters such that expression of both types of DNA in a cell leads to assembly of a complete intact infectious virion. The DNA preferably provides all of the viral RNA and proteins but it is also possible to use a helper virus to provide some of the RNA and proteins. Plasmid based methods using separate plasmids for producing each viral RNA are preferred 31 33 and these methods will also involve the use of plasmids to express all or some e.g. just the PB1 PB2 PA and NP proteins of the viral proteins with 12 plasmids being used in some methods.

To reduce the number of plasmids needed a recent approach 34 combines a plurality of RNA polymerase I transcription cassettes for viral RNA synthesis on the same plasmid e.g. sequences encoding 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or all 8 influenza A vRNA segments and a plurality of protein coding regions with RNA polymerase II promoters on another plasmid e.g. sequences encoding 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or all 8 influenza A mRNA transcripts . Preferred aspects of the reference 34 method involve a PB1 PB2 and PA mRNA encoding regions on a single plasmid and b all 8 vRNA encoding segments on a single plasmid. Including the NA and HA segments on one plasmid and the six other segments on another plasmid can also facilitate matters.

As an alternative to using polI promoters to encode the viral RNA segments it is possible to use bacteriophage polymerase promoters 35 . For instance promoters for the SP6 T3 or T7 polymerases can conveniently be used. Because of the species specificity of polI promoters bacteriophage polymerase promoters can be more convenient for many cell types e.g. MDCK although a cell must also be transfected with a plasmid encoding the exogenous polymerase enzyme.

In other techniques it is possible to use dual polI and polII promoters to simultaneously code for the viral RNAs and for expressible mRNAs from a single template 36 37 .

Thus a virus in particular an influenza A virus may include one or more RNA segments from a A PR 8 34 virus typically 6 segments from A PR 8 34 with the HA and N segments being from a vaccine strain i.e. a 6 2 reassortant particularly when viruses are grown in eggs. It may also include one or more RNA segments from a A WSN 33 virus or from any other virus strain useful for generating reassortant viruses for vaccine preparation. Typically the invention protects against a strain that is capable of human to human transmission and so the strain s genome will usually include at least one RNA segment that originated in a mammalian e.g. in a human influenza virus. It may include a NS segment that originated in an avian influenza virus.

The viruses used as the source of the antigens can be grown either on SPF eggs or on cell culture. The current standard method for influenza virus growth uses embryonated hen eggs with virus being purified from the egg contents allantoic fluid . More recently however viruses have been grown in animal cell culture and for reasons of speed and patient allergies this growth method is preferred. If egg based viral growth is used then one or more amino acids may be introduced into the allantoid fluid of the egg together with the virus 18 .

The cell substrate will typically be a mammalian cell line. Suitable mammalian cells of origin include but are not limited to hamster cattle primate including humans and monkeys and dog cells. Various cell types may be used such as kidney cells fibroblasts retinal cells lung cells etc. Examples of suitable hamster cells are the cell lines having the names BHK21 or HKCC. Suitable monkey cells are e.g. African green monkey cells such as kidney cells as in the Vero cell line.

Suitable dog cells are e.g. kidney cells as in the MDCK cell line. Thus suitable cell lines include but are not limited to MDCK CHO 293T BHK Vero MRC 5 PER.C6 WI 38 etc. The use of mammalian cells means that vaccines can be free from chicken DNA as well as being free from egg proteins such as ovalbumin and ovomucoid thereby reducing allergenicity.

Preferred mammalian cell lines for growing influenza viruses include MDCK cells 38 41 derived from Madin Darby canine kidney Vero cells 42 44 derived from African green monkey kidney or PER.C6 cells 45 derived from human embryonic retinoblasts. These cell lines are widely available e.g. from the American Type Cell Culture ATCC collection 46 from the Coriell Cell Repositories 47 or from the European Collection of Cell Cultures ECACC . For example the ATCC supplies various different Vero cells under catalog numbers CCL 81 CCL 81.2 CRL 1586 and CRL 1587 and it supplies MDCK cells under catalog number CCL 34. PER.C6 is available from the ECACC under deposit number 96022940. As a less preferred alternative to mammalian cell lines virus can be grown on avian cell lines e.g. refs. 4850 including cell lines derived from ducks e.g. duck retina or hens e.g. chicken embryo fibroblasts CEF etc. Examples include avian embryonic stem cells 48 51 including the EBx cell line derived from chicken embryonic stem cells EB45 EB14 and EB14 074 52 .

The most preferred cell lines for growing influenza viruses are MDCK cell lines. The original MDCK cell line is available from the ATCC as CCL 34 but derivatives of this cell line may also be used. For instance reference 38 discloses a MDCK cell line that was adapted for growth in suspension culture MDCK 33016 deposited as DSM ACC 2219 . Similarly reference 53 discloses a MDCK derived cell line that grows in suspension in serum free culture B 702 deposited as FERM BP 7449 . Reference 54 discloses non tumorigenic MDCK cells including MDCK S ATCC PTA 6500 MDCK SF101 ATCC PTA 6501 MDCK SF102 ATCC PTA 6502 and MDCK SF103 PTA 6503 . Reference 55 discloses MDCK cell lines with high susceptibility to infection including MDCK.5F1 cells ATCC CRL 12042 . Any of these MDCK cell lines can be used.

Where virus has been grown on a mammalian cell line then the antigen component in the kit will advantageously be free from egg proteins e.g. ovalbumin and ovomucoid and from chicken DNA thereby reducing allergenicity.

Where virus has been grown on a cell line then the culture for growth and also the viral inoculum used to start the culture will preferably be free from i.e. will have been tested for and given a negative result for contamination by herpes simplex virus respiratory syncytial virus parainfluenza virus 3 SARS coronavirus adenovirus rhinovirus reoviruses polyomaviruses birnaviruses circoviruses and or parvoviruses 56 . Absence of herpes simplex viruses is particularly preferred.

Where virus has been grown on a cell line then the antigen component preferably contains less than 10 ng preferably less than 1 ng and more preferably less than 100 pg of residual host cell DNA per dose although trace amounts of host cell DNA may be present. Contaminating DNA can be removed during vaccine preparation using standard purification procedures e.g. chromatography etc. Removal of residual host cell DNA can be enhanced by nuclease treatment e.g. by using a DNase. A convenient method for reducing host cell DNA contamination is disclosed in references 57 58 involving a two step treatment first using a DNase e.g. Benzonase which may be used during viral growth and then a cationic detergent e.g. CTAB which may be used during virion disruption. Treatment with an alkylating agent such as propiolactone can also be used to remove host cell DNA and advantageously may also be used to inactivate virions 59 .

It is preferred that the average length of any residual host cell DNA is less than 500 bp e.g. less than 400 bp less than 300 bp less than 200 bp less than 100 bp etc.

For growth on a cell line such as on MDCK cells virus may be grown on cells in suspension 38 60 61 or in adherent culture. One suitable MDCK cell line for suspension culture is MDCK 33016 deposited as DSM ACC 2219 . As an alternative microcarrier culture can be used.

Cell lines supporting influenza virus replication are preferably grown in serum free culture media and or protein free media. A medium is referred to as a serum free medium in the context of the present invention in which there are no additives from serum of human or animal origin. Protein free is understood to mean cultures in which multiplication of the cells occurs with exclusion of proteins growth factors other protein additives and non serum proteins but can optionally include proteins such as trypsin or other proteases that may be necessary for viral growth. The cells growing in such cultures naturally contain proteins themselves.

Cell lines supporting influenza virus replication are preferably grown below 37 C. 62 e.g. 30 36 C. or at about 30 C. 31 C. 32 C. 33 C. 34 C. 35 C. 36 C. for example during viral replication.

The method for propagating virus in cultured cells generally includes the steps of inoculating the cultured cells with the strain to be cultured cultivating the infected cells for a desired time period for virus propagation such as for example as determined by virus titer or antigen expression e.g. between 24 and 168 hours after inoculation and collecting the propagated virus. The cultured cells are inoculated with a virus measured by PFU or TCID to cell ratio of 1 500 to 1 1 preferably 1 100 to 1 5 more preferably 1 50 to 1 10. The virus is added to a suspension of the cells or is applied to a monolayer of the cells and the virus is absorbed on the cells for at least 60 minutes but usually less than 300 minutes preferably between 90 and 240 minutes at 25 C. to 40 C. preferably 28 C. to 37 C. The infected cell culture e.g. monolayers may be removed either by freeze thawing or by enzymatic action to increase the viral content of the harvested culture supernatants. The harvested fluids are then either inactivated or stored frozen. Cultured cells may be infected at a multiplicity of infection m.o.i. of about 0.0001 to 10 preferably 0.002 to 5 more preferably to 0.001 to 2. Still more preferably the cells are infected at a m.o.i of about 0.01. Infected cells may be harvested 30 to 60 hours post infection. Preferably the cells are harvested 34 to 48 hours post infection. Still more preferably the cells are harvested 38 to 40 hours post infection. Proteases typically trypsin are generally added during cell culture to allow viral release and the proteases can be added at any suitable stage during the culture.

Haemagglutinin HA is the main immunogen in inactivated influenza vaccines and vaccine doses are standardised by reference to HA levels typically as measured by a single radial immunodiffusion SRID assay. Vaccines typically contain about 15 g of HA per strain although lower doses are also used e.g. for children or in pandemic situations. Fractional doses such as i.e. 7.5 g HA per strain and have been used 4 5 as have higher doses e.g. 3 or 9 doses 63 64 . Thus vaccines may include between 0.1 and 150 g of HA per influenza strain preferably between 0.1 and 50 g e.g. 0.1 20 g 0.1 15 g 0.1 10 g 0.1 7.5 g 0.5 5 g etc. Particular doses include e.g. about 45 about 30 about 15 about 10 about 7.5 about 5 about 3.8 about 1.9 about 1.5 etc. per strain. These lower doses are most useful when an adjuvant is present in the vaccine as with the invention.

For live vaccines dosing is measured by median tissue culture infectious dose TCID rather than HA content and a TCIDof between 10and 10 preferably between 10 10 per strain is typical.

HA used with the invention may be a natural HA as found in a virus or may have been modified. For instance it is known to modify HA to remove determinants e.g. hyper basic regions around the cleavage site between HA1 and HA2 that cause a virus to be highly pathogenic in avian species as these determinants can otherwise prevent a virus from being grown in eggs.

The antigen component of the kits of the invention may include detergent e.g. a polyoxyethylene sorbitan ester surfactant known as the Tweens an octoxynol such as octoxynol 9 Triton X 100 or t octylphenoxypolyethoxyethanol a cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide CTAB or sodium deoxycholate particularly for a split or surface antigen vaccine. The detergent may be present only at trace amounts. Thus the vaccine may include less than 1 mg ml of each of octoxynol 10 tocopheryl hydrogen succinate and polysorbate 80. Other residual components in trace amounts could be antibiotics e.g. neomycin kanamycin polymyxin B .

An inactivated but non whole cell vaccine e.g. a split virus vaccine or a purified surface antigen vaccine may include matrix protein in order to benefit from the additional T cell epitopes that are located within this antigen. Thus a non whole cell vaccine particularly a split vaccine that includes haemagglutinin and neuraminidase may additionally include M1 and or M2 matrix protein. Where a matrix protein is present inclusion of detectable levels of M2 matrix protein or a fragment of M1 protein is preferred. Nucleoprotein may also be present.

Adjuvants that have been used in influenza vaccines include chitosan 65 oil in water emulsions such as MF59 66 water in oil in water emulsions 67 aluminium salts 2 5 CpG oligodeoxynucleotides such as CpG 7909 68 heat labile toxin 69 87 and its detoxified mutants 70 71 monophosphoryl lipid A 72 and its 3 o deacylated derivative 73 pertussis toxin mutants 74 muramyl dipeptides 75 etc.

According to the invention however the adjuvant component is based on aluminium salts. These salts include the adjuvants known as aluminium hydroxide and aluminium phosphate. These names are conventional but are used for convenience only as neither is a precise description of the actual chemical compound which is present e.g. see chapter 9 of reference 76 . The invention can use any of the hydroxide or phosphate adjuvants that are in general use as adjuvants.

The adjuvants known as aluminium hydroxide are typically aluminium oxyhydroxide salts which are usually at least partially crystalline. Aluminium oxyhydroxide which can be represented by the formula AlO OH can be distinguished from other aluminium compounds such as aluminium hydroxide Al OH by infrared IR spectroscopy in particular by the presence of an adsorption band at 1070 cmand a strong shoulder at 3090 3100 cm chapter 9 of ref. 76 . The degree of crystallinity of an aluminium hydroxide adjuvant is reflected by the width of the diffraction band at half height WHH with poorly crystalline particles showing greater line broadening due to smaller crystallite sizes. The surface area increases as WHH increases and adjuvants with higher WHH values have been seen to have greater capacity for antigen adsorption. A fibrous morphology e.g. as seen in transmission electron micrographs is typical for aluminium hydroxide adjuvants. The pI of aluminium hydroxide adjuvants is typically about 11 i.e. the adjuvant itself has a positive surface charge at physiological pH. Adsorptive capacities of between 1.8 2.6 mg protein per mg Al at pH 7.4 have been reported for aluminium hydroxide adjuvants.

The adjuvants known as aluminium phosphate are typically aluminium hydroxyphosphates often also containing a small amount of sulfate i.e. aluminium hydroxyphosphate sulfate . They may be obtained by precipitation and the reaction conditions and concentrations during precipitation influence the degree of substitution of phosphate for hydroxyl in the salt. Hydroxyphosphates generally have a PO Al molar ratio between 0.3 and 1.2. Hydroxyphosphates can be distinguished from strict AlPOby the presence of hydroxyl groups. For example an IR spectrum band at 3164 cm e.g. when heated to 200 C. indicates the presence of structural hydroxyls ch. 9 of ref. 76 .

The PO Al molar ratio of an aluminium phosphate adjuvant will generally be between 0.3 and 1.2 preferably between 0.8 and 1.2 and more preferably 0.95 0.1. The aluminium phosphate will generally be amorphous particularly for hydroxyphosphate salts. A typical adjuvant is amorphous aluminium hydroxyphosphate with PO Al molar ratio between 0.84 and 0.92 included at 0.6 mg Al ml. The aluminium phosphate will generally be particulate e.g. plate like morphology as seen in transmission electron micrographs . Typical diameters of the particles are in the range 0.5 20 m e.g. about 5 10 m after any antigen adsorption. Adsorptive capacities of between 0.7 1.5 mg protein per mg Al at pH 7.4 have been reported for aluminium phosphate adjuvants.

The point of zero charge PZC of aluminium phosphate is inversely related to the degree of substitution of phosphate for hydroxyl and this degree of substitution can vary depending on reaction conditions and concentration of reactants used for preparing the salt by precipitation. PZC is also altered by changing the concentration of free phosphate ions in solution more phosphate more acidic PZC or by adding a buffer such as a histidine buffer makes PZC more basic . Aluminium phosphates used according to the invention will generally have a PZC of between 4.0 and 7.0 more preferably between 5.0 and 6.5 e.g. about 5.7.

Suspensions of aluminium salts used to prepare compositions of the invention may contain a buffer e.g. a phosphate or a histidine or a Tris buffer but this is not always necessary. The suspensions are preferably sterile and pyrogen free. A suspension may include free aqueous phosphate ions e.g. present at a concentration between 1.0 and 20 mM preferably between 5 and 15 mM and more preferably about 10 mM. The suspensions may also comprise sodium chloride.

In one embodiment of the invention the adjuvant component includes a mixture of both an aluminium hydroxide and an aluminium phosphate 4 . In this case there may be more aluminium phosphate than hydroxide e.g. a weight ratio of at least 2 1 e.g. 5 1 6 1 7 1 8 1 9 1 etc.

The concentration of Al in a composition for administration to a patient is preferably less than 10 mg ml e.g. 5 mg ml 4 mg ml 3 mg ml 2 m ml 1 mg ml etc. A preferred range is between 0.3 and 1 mg ml. A maximum of 

As well as including one or more aluminium salt adjuvants the adjuvant component may include one or more further adjuvant or immunostimulating agents. Such additional components include but are not limited to a 3 O deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A adjuvant 3d MPL and or an oil in water emulsion. 3d MPL has also been referred to as 3 de O acylated monophosphoryl lipid A or as 3 O desacyl 4 monophosphoryl lipid A. The name indicates that position 3 of the reducing end glucosamine in monophosphoryl lipid A is de acylated. It has been prepared from a heptoseless mutant of and is chemically similar to lipid A but lacks an acid labile phosphoryl group and a base labile acyl group. It activates cells of the monocyte macrophage lineage and stimulates release of several cytokines including IL 1 IL 12 TNF and GM CSF. Preparation of 3d MPL was originally described in reference 77 and the product has been manufactured and sold by Corixa Corporation under the trade name MPL . Further details can be found in refs 78 to 81.

Finally in alternative embodiments of the invention a calcium salt is used instead of an aluminium salt. In these embodiments the adjuvant component will typically include a calcium phosphate salt.

The antigen component and the adjuvant component of the kit will both be pharmaceutically acceptable as will the product of their mixing. The mixed product may include components in addition to the antigen and adjuvant and these may originate from the antigen component and or the adjuvant component and or an optional third component.

Thus the final mixture will typically include one or more pharmaceutical carrier s and or excipient s . A thorough discussion of such carriers and excipients is available in reference 82.

The final mixture may include preservatives such as thiomersal or 2 phenoxyethanol. It is preferred however that the vaccine should be substantially free from i.e. less than 5 g ml mercurial material e.g. thiomersal free 17 83 . Vaccines containing no mercury are more preferred. Preservative free vaccines are particularly preferred.

To control tonicity it is preferred to include a physiological salt such as a sodium salt. Sodium chloride NaCl is preferred which may be present at between 1 and 20 mg ml. Other salts that may be present include potassium chloride potassium dihydrogen phosphate disodium phosphate dehydrate magnesium chloride calcium chloride etc.

Compositions for administration will generally have an osmolality of between 200 mOsm kg and 400 mOsm kg preferably between 240 360 mOsm kg and will more preferably fall within the range of 290 310 mOsm kg. Osmolality has previously been reported not to have an impact on pain caused by vaccination 84 but keeping osmolality in this range is nevertheless preferred.

Compositions for administration may include one or more buffers. Typical buffers include a phosphate buffer a Tris buffer a borate buffer a succinate buffer a histidine buffer or a citrate buffer. Buffers will typically be included in the 5 20 mM range.

The pH of a composition for administration will generally be between 5.0 and 8.1 and more typically between 6.0 and 8.0 or between 6.5 and 7.5 or between 7.0 and 7.8. The process of the invention may therefore include a step of adjusting the pH of the bulk vaccine prior to packaging.

The kit components may include material for a single immunisation or may include material for multiple immunisations i.e. a multidose kit . Thus for example antigen for 10 doses could be included in one container adjuvant for 10 doses in a second container. The two components could by mixed in a surgery on the morning of use to provide 10 doses for administration to a series of patients during the day. Each dose would be withdrawn into a fresh syringe for administration. The inclusion of a preservative is preferred in multidose arrangements. As an alternative or in addition to including a preservative in multidose compositions the compositions may be contained in a container having an aseptic adaptor for removal of material.

After mixing compositions of the invention are suitable for administration to human patients and the invention provides a method of raising an immune response in a patient comprising the step of administering a composition of the invention to the patient.

The invention also provides the use of i an influenza virus antigen and ii an adjuvant component comprising an aluminium salt in the manufacture of a medicament for raising an immune response in a patient wherein the medicament comprises the antigen and adjuvant as separate components.

The immune response raised by these methods and uses will generally include an antibody response preferably a protective antibody response. Methods for assessing antibody responses neutralising capability and protection after influenza virus vaccination are well known in the art. Human studies have shown that antibody titres against haemagglutinin of human influenza virus are correlated with protection a serum sample haemagglutination inhibition titre of about 30 40 gives around 50 protection from infection by a homologous virus 85 . Antibody responses are typically measured by haemagglutination inhibition by microneutralisation by single radial immunodiffusion SRID and or by single radial hemolysis SRH . These assay techniques are well known in the art.

Compositions of the invention can be administered in various ways. The most preferred immunisation route is by intramuscular injection e.g. into the arm or leg but other available routes include subcutaneous injection intranasal 86 88 oral 89 intradermal 90 91 transcutaneous transdermal 92 etc.

Vaccines prepared according to the invention may be used to treat both children and adults. Influenza vaccines are currently recommended for use in pediatric and adult immunisation from the age of 6 months. Thus the patient may be less than 1 year old 1 5 years old 5 15 years old 15 55 years old or at least 55 years old. Preferred patients for receiving the vaccines are the elderly e.g. 50 years old 60 years old and preferably 65 years the young e.g. 5 years old hospitalised patients healthcare workers armed service and military personnel pregnant women the chronically ill immunodeficient patients patients who have taken an antiviral compound e.g. an oseltamivir or zanamivir compound such as oseltamivir phosphate see below in the 7 days prior to receiving the vaccine people with egg allergies and people traveling abroad. The vaccines are not suitable solely for these groups however and may be used more generally in a population. For pandemic strains administration to all age groups is preferred.

Vaccines produced by the invention may be administered to patients at substantially the same time as e.g. during the same medical consultation or visit to a healthcare professional or vaccination centre other vaccines e.g. at substantially the same time as a measles vaccine a mumps vaccine a rubella vaccine a MMR vaccine a varicella vaccine a MMRV vaccine a diphtheria vaccine a tetanus vaccine a pertussis vaccine a DTP vaccine a conjugated type b vaccine an inactivated poliovirus vaccine a hepatitis B virus vaccine a meningococcal conjugate vaccine such as a tetravalent A C W135 Y vaccine a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine etc. Administration at substantially the same time as a pneumococcal vaccine or a meningococcal vaccine is particularly useful in elderly patients.

Similarly vaccines of the invention may be administered to patients at substantially the same time as e.g. during the same medical consultation or visit to a healthcare professional an antiviral compound and in particular an antiviral compound active against influenza virus e.g. oseltamivir . These antivirals include neuraminidase inhibitors such as a 3R 4R 5S 4 acetylamino 5 amino 3 1 ethylpropoxy 1 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid including esters thereof e.g. the ethyl ester and salts thereof e.g. the phosphate salt . A preferred antiviral is 3R 4R 5S 4 acetylamino 5 amino 3 1 ethylpropoxy 1 cyclohexene 1 carboxylic acid ethyl ester phosphate 1 1 also known as oseltamivir phosphate TAMIFLU .

Treatment can be by a single dose schedule or a multiple dose schedule. Multiple doses may be used in a primary immunisation schedule and or in a booster immunisation schedule. Administration of more than one dose typically two doses is particularly useful in immunologically na ve patients e.g. for people who have never received an influenza vaccine before or for vaccinating against a new HA subtype as in a pandemic outbreak . Multiple doses will typically be administered at least 1 week apart e.g. about 2 weeks about 3 weeks about 4 weeks about 6 weeks about 8 weeks about 10 weeks about 12 weeks about 16 weeks etc. .

As compositions and kits of the invention include an aluminium based adjuvant settling of components may occur during storage. The composition should therefore be shaken prior to administration to a patient. The shaken composition will be a turbid white suspension.

The term comprising encompasses including as well as consisting e.g. a composition comprising X may consist exclusively of X or may include something additional e.g. X Y.

The word substantially does not exclude completely e.g. a composition which is substantially free from Y may be completely free from Y. Where necessary the word substantially may be omitted from the definition of the invention.

Unless specifically stated a process comprising a step of mixing two or more components does not require any specific order of mixing. Thus components can be mixed in any order. Where there are three components then two components can be combined with each other and then the combination may be combined with the third component etc.

Where an antigen is described as being adsorbed to an adjuvant it is preferred that at least 50 by weight of that antigen is adsorbed e.g. 50 60 70 80 90 95 98 or more.

Where animal and particularly bovine materials are used in the culture of cells they should be obtained from sources that are free from transmissible spongiform encephalopathies TSEs and in particular free from bovine spongiform encephalopathy BSE . Overall it is preferred to culture cells in the total absence of animal derived materials.

Where a cell substrate is used for reassortment or reverse genetics procedures it is preferably one that has been approved for use in human vaccine production e.g. as in Ph Eur general chapter 5.2.3.

Because of the above mentioned problems associated with the use of aluminium salts for adjuvanting influenza virus vaccines it was decided to investigate if vaccines could be prepared in which the adjuvant and antigen components are kept apart until the time of use but in which antigen adsorption can still take place. To determine the feasibility of this approach purified surface antigens from an influenza virus were mixed with aluminium hydroxide suspensions. Immediately following mixture the aluminium salt was sedimented by bench centrifugation and the amount of protein remaining in the supernatant i.e. the amount of unadsorbed protein was measured.

Haemagglutinin was purified from influenza virus A New Caledonian H1N1 or A Wyoming H3N2 and was diluted to give 75 g HA ml. An aluminium hydroxide adjuvant was prepared at 4.25 mg ml approximately 1.5 mg Al ml . 1 ml of the adjuvant suspension was added to 4 ml of the antigen solution in a 15 ml Falcon tube and the mixture was inverted and incubated at room temperature. Samples were taken at time zero and then at 5 10 20 30 60 90 and 120 minutes. Controls were the antigen alone 10 mM PBS pH 7.7 or the adjuvant alone 10 mM PBS pH 7.7 . Samples were immediately centrifuged at 400 rpm to sediment the adsorbed material for analysis. Protein content was assessed by BioRad protein assay and by non denaturing SDS PAGE.

The results of the adsorption study for the two strains were as follows normalised to 100 being the protein content of the antigen only control 

Thus a high degree of adsorption occurs very rapidly. The differences at the various time points were not significant. To confirm the results SYPRO ruby dye staining was used on SDS PAGE separations of the supernatants. No protein bands were visible in the adjuvant control 0 5 10 20 or 30 minute samples. Thus any protein present was below the limit of detection by this method which is sensitive enough to detect 1 2 ng of protein.

Results showed that at least 97 of the antigen rapidly became adsorbed to the adjuvant. Surprisingly adsorption occurs essentially instantaneously which would permit an adjuvanted influenza vaccine to be distributed without pre adsorption to the adjuvant. Thus an adjuvant vaccine can be prepared more rapidly which will be most useful in a pandemic situation. These results have been achieved with two different strains of influenza A virus and it is fully expected that the same effect will be seen with other strains and with other adjuvants based on insoluble aluminium salts.

A purified surface antigen formulation of A Vietnam 1203 2004 x A PR 8 34 H5N1 influenza virus 2 6 reassortant was prepared. The haemagglutinin content was estimated to be 41 g HA mL as determined by SRID. 30 mL A H5N1 was concentrated using the Ultrafree 15 centrifugal filter device to approximately 15 mL. The total protein content of both the original and concentrated A H5N1 was determined by the Bio Rad protein assay with a 0 50 g mL gamma globulin standard curve. Using this result the proportion of HA to total protein was calculated. This value was then used to calculate the final volume required for a 60 g HA mL solution of A H5N1.

0.7 mL of a 2 mg mL aluminium hydroxide adjuvant was added to 0.7 mL of 60 g HA mL MBP in a 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tube. The solutions were mixed by inversion and incubated at room temperature approximately 20 C. . Duplicate samples were taken at 5 minutes 10 minutes 30 minutes 2 hours 8 hours and 24 hours. Controls were 0.7 mL 10 mM PBS pH 7.7 added to 0.7 mL 60 g HA mL MBP and 0.7 mL 10 mM PBS pH 7.7 added to 0.7 mL 2 mg mL aluminium hydroxide. Samples were centrifuged at 13000 rpm for 1 minute at room temperature to remove the suspended aluminium hydroxide and the supernatant decanted into a labelled 7 mL sterile bijou. Results were analysed as described above by BioRad protein assay and by non denaturing SDS PAGE with SYPRO dye and were as follows.

The results for the A H5N1 formulation were comparable to the experiments conducted using the equivalent A New Caledonia and A Wyoming preparations. Very low levels of protein were detected in the supernatant for all samples using the Bio Rad protein assay confirming that almost all the protein remained bound to the aluminium hydroxide pellet. Sensitive SYPRO ruby dye staining of the samples after SDS PAGE separation revealed no protein bands in the adjuvant control or in any of the six timed samples. Thus any protein present was below the limit of detection by this method. There was no significant difference between the protein concentrations at any of the time points. All sample absorbencies and subsequent protein concentration estimations for the aluminium hydroxide control and timed samples were below the lower limit of the 5 to 50 g mL standard curve.

Thus the data indicate that A H5N1 protein is instantaneously adsorbed to the aluminium salt adjuvant and remains stably attached for at least 24 hours.

As reported in reference 93 300 volunteers in a randomised open label non controlled phase I trial received one of six inactivated monovalent split influenza A Vietnam 1194 2004 H5N1 vaccine formulations comprising 3 different doses of HA 7.5 g 15 g or 30 g with or without aluminium hydroxide adjuvant. Individuals received two vaccinations and blood samples were analysed by haemagglutination inhibition and microneutralisation.

The vaccine was produced in embryonated chicken eggs using the licensed manufacturing process used for the VAXIGRIP interpandemic vaccine 94 . The vaccine strain was the influenza A Vietnam 1194 2004 NIBRG14 H5N1 reference strain prepared by the NIBSC. This strain contains modified haemagglutinin and neuraminidase from the highly pathogenic avian strain influenza A Vietnam 1194 2004 and other viral proteins from influenza A PR 8 34 H1N1 . The haemagglutinin was modified to remove the multibasic amino acid sequence at the cleavage site.

0.5 ml syringes 23 gauge 1 inch needle were filled with the split vaccine at a level of 7 5 g 15 g or 30 g of haemagglutinin in a phosphate buffered saline solution without adjuvant. For unadjuvanted vaccination these syringes were used in patients directly. For adjuvanted vaccination however the contents of a syringe were injected into a sterile vial as were the contents of a syringe containing aluminium hydroxide adjuvant. This mixing took place by the bedside just before use and after 10 seconds of mixing the contents were drawn into a new syringe 23 gauge 1 inch needle with gentle swirling to homogenise the antigen adjuvant suspension and then injected into patients intramuscularly deltoid . Injection volume was 0.5 ml except for the adjuvanted 30 g formulation 1 ml volume . The final adjuvant content of vaccines was 600 g. Preliminary studies of mixing antigen and adjuvant had shown similar adsorption coefficients for all three antigen doses.

Each participant received two intramuscular injections 21 days apart days 0 21 . Blood samples were taken on days 0 21 and 42.

All six formulations were well tolerated with no reports of serious adverse events between days 0 and 42 no severe injection site pain and no febrile episodes with an oral temperature of more than 38 C.

All formulations induced an immune response with responses detectable in some individuals after only one dose. With respect to haemagglutinin inhibition between 6 and 34 of each group had titres of 32 or more on day 21 the proportion increasing to 28 67 on day 42. Neutralising antibody responses followed a similar pattern to those of haemagglutinin inhibition. The adjuvanted 30 g formulation induced the greatest response 67 haemagglutinin inhibition seroconversion rate after two vaccinations . In particular a two dose regimen with the adjuvanted 30 g H5N1 vaccine showed an immune response consistent with European regulatory requirements for licensure of seasonal influenza vaccines.

It will be understood that the invention has been described by way of example only and modifications may be made whilst remaining within the scope and spirit of the invention.

