---

title: Obfuscating document stylometry
abstract: A new system has been invented that can obfuscate the stylometry of a document. This may be used to anonymize a document and make it resistant to forensic stylometry analysis, or to mimic the style of an existing set of documents, for example. A system may compare indicators of distinctive stylometry in a document with corresponding indicators of distinctive stylometry in a stylometric reference, and provide one or more alterations to the document that alter the indicators of distinctive stylometry compared to the stylometric reference, according to one illustrative embodiment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07627562&OS=07627562&RS=07627562
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07627562
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060613
---
Stylometry analysis involves analyzing telltale aspects of writing style particularly favored by an individual writer often without explicit recognition of their own subtle preferences. Stylometry analysis addresses aspects of language such as word usage and grammatical choices and other information contained in the words of a document as opposed to handwriting the analysis of which is a separate discipline. Research has shown that particular writers tend to use writing idiosyncracies consistently over time and between written works allowing these writing idiosyncracies to serve as clues that may reveal a writing of unknown authorship to match writing samples of a known author or that even in the absence of specific bases of comparison may indicate basic aspects of identity such as native language and gender.

Stylometry analysis has been a valuable tool both for linguistic and literary research and for providing evidence in investigations and legal disputes. However there are many situations in which forensic stylometry analysis has the potential to be abused or when the use of forensic stylometry analysis may impede a compelling interest. This may be the case for example with writings that provide legitimate criticism of entities that have the resources to use forensic stylometry analysis such as critical political essays or whistleblower letters.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A new system has been invented that can obfuscate the stylometry of a document. This may be used to anonymize a document and make it resistant to forensic stylometry analysis or to mimic the style of an existing set of documents for example. A system may compare indicators of distinctive stylometry in a document with corresponding indicators of distinctive stylometry in a stylometric reference and provide one or more alterations to the document that alter the indicators of distinctive stylometry compared to the stylometric reference according to one illustrative embodiment.

The Summary and Abstract are provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary and Abstract are not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

As noted above stylometric analysis has been of interest for linguistic and literary studies among other uses. One well known example which is useful for illustrating the concept of stylometric analysis involves the Federalist Papers all 85 of which were originally written under the anonymous nom de plume Publius but are now known to have been written by James Madison Alexander Hamilton and John Jay. Additional well known examples of widely esteemed writings from approximately the same period of time that were disseminated under a valuable cover of anonymity include the articles published under the pseudonyms Brutus Centinel Cato and Federal Farmer the latter two of which have still not had their true authors definitively established.

While the authorship of most of the Federalist Papers was definitively discovered there are still twelve of the papers for which no direct evidence has been discovered to establish authorship between either Madison or Hamilton. These persistently anonymous Federalist Papers have been a favorite target for stylometric analysis which strongly indicates that at least eleven of the twelve remaining Papers were written by Madison.

One particular stylometric technique used to demonstrate this includes measuring the frequency of usage of different words particularly function words between Hamilton and Madison in the Federalist Papers of known authorship. One particular example of this is based on the choice between while and whilst two English function words with the same meaning but with two alternate forms. The Papers known to have been authored by Hamilton include 36 instances of the word while and only one instance of the word whilst while the Papers known to have been written by Madison include no instances of the word while but twelve instances of the word whilst . The Federalist Papers of unknown authorship include no instances of the word while and nine instances of the word whilst thereby strongly correlating with the indicators of Madison s distinctive stylometry.

These optional function words persistently used in preference over their alternates constitute a clear example of indicators of distinctive stylometry in the documents of both authors relative to each other as well as relative to general usage of the language as might be represented by a large diversely sampled stylometric reference. While indicators of distinctive stylometry are not typically as stark as in this particular comparison between Hamilton and Madison they can generally be found in a more comprehensive stylometric analysis for authors in general.

The examples above demonstrate how valuable writings were produced for which there was a compelling interest in keeping their authorship anonymous at the time. Many other applications with a compelling interest in anonymizing authorship are present today such as for whistleblowers investigative journalists or their sources and political commentators whose efforts may subject them to unwelcome attention unless they have an effective way to ensure that their writings can remain anonymous even in the face of modern stylometric analysis. This interest has been recognized by groups such as Journalists Without Borders which publishes guidelines for journalists and writers to protect their anonymity where needed. Stylometric analysis techniques have also been used to indicate the probable gender or native language of the author which there may also be a compelling interest in preventing. A wide variety of other applications and implementations also exist and are not limited to the sample of illustrative implementations described herein.

A compelling need therefore exists for implementations for obfuscating indicators of distinctive stylometry. depicts a flowchart of a method providing an illustrative embodiment of a system for obfuscating stylometry. Method is implementable at least in part by a computing device such as computing devices and of . A language usage classifier could be embodied for example as a stand alone application as a dynamic link library DLL file that other programs are linked to so it can be used within the context of other programs as a web based application as an object or a feature within a larger program or as any of a variety of other possible embodiments.

Distinctive stylometry indicator extractor or extractor for short extracts or measures a wide variety of indicators of distinctive stylometry in both stylometric reference and document . Some illustrative examples of the indicators of distinctive stylometry extracted or measured by extractor are depicted in and are described further below. Extractor may measure a variety of reference stylometry indicators from stylometric reference to train classifier in advance of measuring indicators in document . Extractor refers to stylometry indicators measured from stylometric reference that correspond to indicators of reference stylometry in stylometric reference in partial performance of step of method in .

Step is finished by distinctive stylometry indicator classifier or classifier for short in the illustrative embodiment of architecture in . Classifier compares the indicators of distinctive stylometry in document to the corresponding indicators of reference stylometry from stylometric reference as in step of method in .

The extracted features are stored and compiled as the basis for classifier which incorporates a model of the stylometric indicators from the stylometric reference in an illustrative embodiment. Any new indicators of stylometry from document that are measured to be similar to the corresponding stylometric indicators of classifier are classified as in class or within the class modeled for that linguistic feature type by classifier in this illustrative embodiment. A document whose features are mostly indicated to be in class are therefore classified with a low total stylometric distinctiveness. Indicators of stylometry from document that do not fit the learned model of classifier for the corresponding indicators of stylometry are classified as out of class or in this case as having indicators of distinctive stylometry compared with stylometric reference . A document with many stylometric indicators that are classified as out of class are gauged with a high stylometric distinctiveness.

In one particular implementation provided as an illustrative example classifier is based on a support vector machine SVM and has the reference stylometric indicators stored as feature vectors. An SVM is an automated learning system based on statistical learning theory. In the present illustrative embodiment the SVM uses a kernel function to model the stylometric indicators of the stylometric reference as measured by extractor . A linear basis kernel function is one particular option that may be used in the present embodiment though any of a variety of other kernel functions may also be used. Classifier may be used as a one class classifier or a multi class classifier. A wide variety of other implementations for classifier may be used in other embodiments.

Distinctive stylometry indicator modifier or modifier for short provides one or more alterations to the document that alter the indicators of distinctive stylometry compared to the stylometric reference according to one illustrative implementation of step .

Method enables a user to remove indicators of distinctive stylometry from a document and normalize the stylometry of the document compared to a stylometric reference. The stylometric reference could be a large anonymized corpus representing a statistically significant sampling of well written documents from a large number of writers for example. A number of popular corpora are in use. One illustrative example which has been in use for some time is the Wall Street Journal corpus which collects a large number of articles from the Wall Street Journal from over a significant period of time with a total of approximately a million words.

With such a large corpus providing a substantial cross section of writers as in the foregoing illustrative example the indicators of stylometry may be expected to be smoothed out and anonymized so that no particular individual author s style is represented in such a sample and its indicators of stylometry are not significantly distinctive. Altering indicators of distinctive stylometry in the document is therefore effective for reducing the distinctiveness of the indicators for the document compared to the stylometric reference thereby increasing the anonymity of the document as altered by modifier . Method can thereby anonymize the stylometric indicators of a document and render the document more resistant to identification of its author by means of stylometric analysis.

The illustrative implementation above focuses on anonymization by mimicking stylometric indicators in an anonymized stylometric reference such as a corpus of general language usage. Other implementations may also be used for altering the indicators of distinctive stylometry which may involve mimicking stylometric indicators in a different stylometric reference such as one drawn from the writings of a single target author or other narrow sample group.

For example this could be used for a book or series of books written partially by one or more co authors or ghostwriters or for speeches written on someone else s behalf by a speechwriter or a revolving team of speechwriters. Such collaborative writing efforts are likely to have distracting stylistic inconsistencies. These can be resolved by using a stylometric reference of writings by the lead author as the basis of comparison for the contributions of the supporting writers.

The documents written by the supporting writers have their stylometric indicators compared with the corresponding stylometric indicators in the stylometric reference of the lead author s writings and the stylometric indicators found to be distinctive in the supporting writers contributions are altered to remove their distinctiveness from the stylometric reference yielding a stylistic consistency throughout the joint writing of the lead author and supporting authors.

Returning to method in step includes ranking one or more of the indicators of distinctive stylometry. The alterations to the document are then provided in order from an indicator having the highest ranked stylometric distinctiveness and progressing through indicators having the successively next highest ranked stylometric distinctiveness. For example to refer once again to the example of the Federalist Papers the distinctiveness between the usage of while and whilst between Hamilton and Madison was particularly pronounced and is likely to be ranked as having among the highest stylometric distinctiveness between the two authors.

Ranking the indicators of distinctive stylometry and then altering them in order from most distinctive on down provides considerable advantages according to this illustrative embodiment. The alterations may be performed either automatically or manually where one or more suggested alterations for each of the indicators of distinctive stylometry are provided for the user to consider one at a time. Manual alterations may enable more stylistic consistency avoid any potential linguistic quirks due to the alterations and enable greater attention to other considerations of writing quality. However manual alterations have the trade off of requiring much more time and attention. An automated routine of alterations performed by a computing device may be finished before the user has an opportunity to consider a single alteration. The greater time and attention required for manual alterations are largely resolved by the advantages of progressing through the alterations according to a ranked order.

Tests have shown that altering the indicators of distinctive stylometry according to a ranked order enable the total stylometric distinctiveness between a document and a stylometric reference to be reduced roughly exponentially so that a relatively small number of alterations suffices to eliminate most of the stylometric distinctiveness when the indicators of distinctive stylometry are evaluated starting from the most distinctive and working down through the highest remaining distinctiveness at each iteration.

Working downward from the highest ranked indicators of distinctive stylometry therefore enables a great majority of the alteration of distinctive stylometry to be accomplished by altering only a relatively small fraction of the possible indicators of distinctive stylometry. To cite one particular test implementation as an illustrative example it was found that altering only fourteen words for each thousand words in the document was sufficient to remove 83 of the likelihood of the author of the document being identifiable in comparison with an anonymized stylometric reference.

Returning again to method in step includes providing an updated gauge of total stylometric distinctiveness of the document after each of the alterations. In this implementation the options selectable by the user at each of the indicators of distinctive stylometry include an option to finish altering the indicators of distinctive stylometry in the document as in step which the user may do with the confidence of having the running gauge of total remaining distinctiveness to consult. The user may have a target distinctiveness in mind such as only 15 10 or 5 for example compared with the stylometric reference.

A small total stylometric distinctiveness such as in this range combined with the limited sample size of a typical document is likely to achieve an effective homogenization of the document with the stylometric reference and make the authorship of the document impossible to distinguish compared with the stylometric reference with any confidence. The user can proceed with the alterations until the gauge shows after one of the alterations that the total remaining stylistic distinctiveness is less than the target level indicating that the indicators of distinctive stylometry have been smoothed over enough to make the document sufficiently resistant to stylometric analysis.

Finishing the alterations once the total stylometric distinctiveness reaches a pre selected threshold as in step may also be done when the alterations are run automatically. This may be particularly useful for large documents for which analysis and replacement of all identifiable indicators of stylometric distinctiveness may require more than the desired amount of time or resources or likelihood of introducing quirks in the flow of the language.

Returning again to extractor in different embodiments may target any linguistic feature with the potential to serve as indicators of stylometric distinctiveness of one author compared to a stylometric reference. A representative sampling of such features for an illustrative embodiment is depicted in association with extractor in . In this illustrative embodiment extractor measures values of selected features in the document and compares the values of the selected features with values of the selected features in the stylometric reference . This may include determining whether each of the selected features is more or less frequent in the document than in the stylometric reference and determining by what percentage each of the selected features is more or less frequent in the document than in the stylometric reference as one illustrative example.

Extractor may also consider several different potential linguistic features to discover which ones perform most effectively in measuring distinctive stylometry between a document and a stylometric reference in a particular application and proceed with those most effective features. The features associated with extractor all possess in common the property of being linguistic features that are capable of acting as indicators of a particular author s distinctive stylometry.

One of the more powerful features to measure to gauge stylometric distinctiveness is also one of the simplest the frequency of individual words. Different embodiments may be implemented in any human languages and in some languages with a logographic script such as Chinese or a mixed logographic and syllabic script such as Japanese a segmenter may be applied first to segment the characters into words. Words may also be converted into tokens prior to the comparison between the document and the reference. Function words are a traditional favorite feature for stylometric analysis so altering the function words of a document into consistency with the reference or the function word distances may be a particularly efficient way to anonymize document in some implementations.

Additional features that can be measured by extractor to evaluate as indicators of distinctive stylometry include letter metrics feature length metrics part of speech trigrams parse tree segments logical forms lexical N gram features morphological inflections honorific suffixes minority dialect features minority spellings spelling errors and grammar errors. These features along with the last few listed i.e. the lingua franca register and the vernacular register are explained further below.

Tokenizing or morphological analysis such as measuring frequencies of morphological inflections are particularly effective for measuring stylometry of highly inflected languages such as Lithuanian Hungarian and Malayalam. Other features may be particularly effective for measuring stylometry in specific languages such as honorific suffixes for Japanese.

Part of speech trigrams are another linguistic feature that may be measured by extractor and used by classifier to compare as stylometric indicators between document and stylometric reference . Part of speech trigrams are sequences of three part of speech labels. Part of speech labels are often tagged to words in a sample as an early stage of natural language processing. As an example the phrase winter is cold may be part of speech tagged as winter n is v cold a where n represents a tag indicating a noun part of speech v represents a tag indicating a verb part of speech and a represents a tag indicating an adjective part of speech. The part of speech trigram for the phrase above is therefore n v a.

Another type of measurable indicator in some embodiments depicted in extractor is a parse tree segment. A parser may be used to convert a sentence into a parse tree representation. For each node in a parse tree the label for the node and the labels of the daughter nodes of that node may be extracted. For example a parse tree may include a node with a label of DECL indicating a declarative sentence and with daughter nodes labeled with the chunk types NP VERB NP indicating that the declarative sentence consists of a noun phrase a verb and a second noun phrase. These labels may be added to a sentence from a corpus after the corpus has been chunked and parsed in the present illustrative embodiment. For example in one illustrative parsing scheme an original sentence from a training corpus may read The microwave anisotropy probe has measured the age of the Universe. This sentence may be chunked as NP The microwave anisotropy probe VERB has measured NP the age of the Universe where The microwave anisotropy probe has been chunked as an NP or noun phrase has measured has been chunked as a VERB and the age of the Universe has been chunked as another NP or noun phrase.

Another measurable type of feature in some embodiments as indicated in extractor includes features based on the logical form graphs of the sentences. These logical form graphs may include for example semantic relations of parts of speech semantic features on a part of speech in a semantic relation or the presence of a semantic feature. To use one illustrative semantic relation labeling scheme one illustrative example of a semantic relation of parts of speech is the logical form graph Verb Tsub Noun indicating that a noun is in the semantic subject relation to a verb. As with other extractable features relative similarities and differences between stylometric indicators of document compared with those of stylometric reference can serve as indicators distinctive stylometry. While a particular labeling scheme is referred to here any other consistent labeling scheme for semantic relations and logical form graphs may be used in other embodiments.

Still another measurable type of feature in some embodiments as indicated in extractor includes lexical N gram features where N may have a range of different numbers within the same embodiment and different embodiments having different ranges of N. For example in one illustrative embodiment lexical N gram features are extracted with N ranging from 1 to 3. An example might be a three word sequence such as . . . rearranging the deckchairs . . . extracted from within a sentence. Any consistent labeling scheme may be used in different embodiments to represent lexical N gram features in sentences such as this. To use one illustrative labeling scheme this three word sequence may be extracted and stored as a lexical trigram that is a lexical N gram with N 3 as ng3 rearranging the deckchairs where ng indicates a lexical N gram 3 indicates the numeral of N for this lexical N gram and stands for each space between adjacent words. A variety of different characteristic lexical N grams may be measured in document that are rarely or never measured in stylometric reference and vice versa so that lexical N gram features may also be used as indicators of distinctive stylometry.

Yet another measurable type of feature in some embodiments as indicated in feature extractor component 421 are function word distances. Function words as opposed to lexical words carry little semantic information and are used chiefly to grammatically modify the usage of lexical words. Functional words may therefore serve as significant indicators of distinctive stylometry since particular function words are not needed to convey particular meanings and are therefore more likely to be favored or disfavored in usage as a matter of personal stylometry. Function words include determiners such as the and a conjunctions such as and and but degree adverbs such as also and very and auxiliaries such as would and should . Distances between functions words is also less dependent on the meaning one intends to convey and more on somewhat arbitrary personal stylometry.

As extractor depicts spelling errors and grammar errors may also be used for modeling classifier and for indicating distinctive stylometry. Spelling and grammar errors are often not merely typographical errors but are regularly expressed errors a particular user is liable to make repeatedly. Existing and hereafter developed spelling checkers and grammar checkers such as those often incorporated in word processing applications may interface compatibly with extractor to detect and provide spelling and grammar errors for use in modeling classifier .

Another interesting and effective characteristic that may reliably serve as a characteristic signature on a particular individual s writing style is the frequency of vocabulary originating from a lingua franca register compared with a frequency of vocabulary originating from a vernacular register. A vernacular register typically comprises that portion of a language that stems from an older or the oldest parent language of the language and carries function words and basic words for body parts common plants and animals common types of food the basic colors and other basic vocabulary and most of all place names if the speakers still reside in an ancestral homeland. In contrast a lingua franca register derives from a language that has only entered the influence of the subject language in relatively recent history often from contact with a culture with a longer literary and scholarly history than the original parent language from which the vernacular derives.

For example the English language is derived from an array of several registers including a vernacular Anglo Saxon register deriving from a variety of Anglo Saxon dialects in use in the seven kingdoms during roughly the sixth through eighth centuries and from the Old Norse spoken by the Norwegian invaders who began settling in the time of Alfred the Great and the lingua franca registers deriving from the Norman French and scholarly Latin and Greek that William brought to the island in 1066.

Modern English continues to differentiate these registers sharply. Anglo Saxon words are spoken and written more for things you do and see every day and are sometimes thought to carry more of a gut feeling for the meaning of the words. In considerable contrast to that vernacular register the lingua franca or scholarly register of vocabulary derived from French Latin and Greek dominates formal usage and remains favored for professional utilization technical communication and scientific literary and educational concepts.

Differentiation between a vernacular register and a lingua franca register is fairly common in other languages in which they are equally applicable for comparing to measure indicators of distinctive stylometry. For example Greek Latin and French have long supplied lingua franca registers to many other European languages Avestan Persian Sanskrit and Prakrit have provided lingua franca registers for a variety of central and south Asian and Middle Eastern languages Persian served as a lingua franca register to Arabic and Turkish which have in turn become sources of lingua franca registers for surrounding languages Mandarin Chinese has long served as a lingua franca to other Chinese and many other east Asian languages Arabic Swahili various Bantu languages French and English have long provided lingua franca registers to various African languages and English now provides a lingua franca register to languages all over the world.

An individual author s writing stylometry often bears a highly distinctive stamp based on how much they use baseline vernacular register vocabulary compared with lingua franca or scholarly register vocabulary a relative frequency that is strongly dependent on inherent factors such as social background educational level subject matter and experience as a writer. Measuring frequency of vocabulary from a vernacular register compared with frequency of vocabulary from a lingua franca register is therefore particularly useful for measuring indicators of distinctive stylometry compared with a stylometric reference.

Turning again to step depicts an extra layer of anonymization or obfuscation that can be incorporated into alterations to a document. Step includes removing the indicators of distinctive stylometry that have been subject to the alterations from the document along with the corresponding indicators of stylometry from the stylometric reference in order of the ranking from highest distinctiveness to lower distinctiveness and measuring a rate at which a total stylometric distinctiveness of the document compared to the stylometric reference changes as the indicators are removed.

This provides a way of testing how well the prior alterations obfuscated the document compared to the stylometric reference. If the total stylometric distinctiveness changes quickly this indicates that the alterations performed thus far have been relatively concentrated among a few common indicators of distinctive stylometry but have not deeply saturated the altered document. Performing the deep obfuscation test of step allows the user either manually or by an automated process to recursively gauge the depth of the alterations to the indicators of distinctive stylometry and steer the alterations toward having only a slow change in total stylometric distinctiveness which indicates a thorough alteration of the indicators of distinctive stylometry in the document.

Control field can be clicked or otherwise selected by the user to check stylometric distinctiveness including by comparing indicators of distinctive stylometry in the document with a corresponding stylometric reference and provide alterations to the indicators of distinctive stylometry of the document to make them more or less distinctive compared to the stylometric reference. Control field can be selected during a manual alteration process for engaging the suggested alteration and proceeding to the next most distinctive stylometric indicator. Control field can be selected to automate the alteration of indicators of distinctive stylometry until the selected threshold as shown in field is reached. Control field can be selected to manually finish the comparison and alteration process.

Field shows the next highest ranked indicators of distinctive stylometry in the target document in a ranked order from most distinctive down toward less distinctive. Field A is configured to display suggested alterations in a manual process to indicators of distinctive stylometry though the control to provide these has not yet been implemented. Control field is depicted in bold line weight to indicate that it has been selected by the user prompting the display of the stylometric distinctiveness of the target document in gauge A and field A.

A few illustrative systems and environments with which various implementations for obfuscating document stylometry are further described as follows. depicts a block diagram of a general computing environment comprising a computer and various media such as system memory nonvolatile magnetic disk nonvolatile optical disk and a medium of remote computer hosting remote application programs the various media being readable by the computer and comprising executable instructions that are executable by the computer according to an illustrative embodiment. illustrates an example of a suitable computing system environment on which various embodiments may be implemented. The computing system environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the claimed subject matter. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment .

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Various embodiments may be implemented as instructions that are executable by a computing device which can be embodied on any form of computer readable media discussed below. Various additional embodiments may be implemented as data structures or databases that may be accessed by various computing devices and that may influence the function of such computing devices. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may be operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one illustrative embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Mobile computing system also includes network . Mobile computing device is illustratively in wireless communication with network which may for example be the Internet or some scale of area network by sending and receiving electromagnetic signals of a suitable protocol between communication interface and wireless interface . Wireless interface may be a wireless hub or cellular antenna for example or any other signal interface. Wireless interface in turn provides access via network to a wide array of additional computing resources illustratively represented by computing resources and .

Computing device is enabled to make use of executable instructions stored on the media of memory component such as executable instructions that enable computing device to compare indicators of distinctive stylometry in a document with corresponding indicators of distinctive stylometry in a stylometric reference and provide one or more alterations to the document that alter the indicators of distinctive stylometry compared to the stylometric reference according to various embodiments. For example the executable instructions may enable mobile computing device to evaluate linguistic features in a document compared with a reference corpus determine one or more of the linguistic features in the document that are stylometrically distinctive relative to the reference corpus and modify one or more of the linguistic features in the document to make them less stylometrically distinctive relative to the reference corpus according to one illustrative embodiment.

A system such as architecture of for evaluating linguistic features in a document compared with a reference corpus determining one or more of the linguistic features in the document that are stylometrically distinctive relative to the reference corpus and modifying one or more of the linguistic features in the document to make them less stylometrically distinctive relative to the reference corpus may be embodied as executable instructions stored on a medium in one illustrative embodiment. Such executable instructions may be stored on a medium readable by a computing device such as those embodied in as ROM operating system application programs other program modules program data user input interface remote application programs operating system applications or object store for example. Such executable instructions may be readable by a computing device wherein the executable instructions enable a computing device to carry out the functions indicated for architecture in or to perform the method of or to provide the user interfaces depicted in for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

