---

title: Wizard for web service search adapter
abstract: Generating a search web services adapter is disclosed. An indication is received that an input parameter associated with an operation associated with the web service corresponds to a search query parameter. An indication is received that an output parameter associated with the operation corresponds to a search result parameter. Adapter code is automatically generated that is configured to translate a query into a form required by the web service to perform the operation, including by mapping a received input value for the search query parameter to the input parameter, and to translate a result of the operation, including by mapping a received output value for the output parameter to the search result parameter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08375362&OS=08375362&RS=08375362
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08375362
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061128
---
The web services paradigm and implementing protocols facilitate machine to machine communication. Some web services make stored content available and it may be desirable to include such web services as a source of information responsive to a search query. However each web service has its own interface with the result that an adapter capable of using a specific web service generally would be required to include a web service as a source of content that is searched in response to a query. It would be useful to be able to use web services as an information source for applications and to be able to easily integrate web services into applications.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein program instructions are sent over optical or communication links. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. A component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task includes both a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Generating a search web service adapter is disclosed. An indication is received that an input parameter associated with an operation associated with the web service corresponds to a search query parameter. An indication is received that an output parameter associated with an operation associated with the web service corresponds to a search result parameter. Adapter code is generated which is configured to translate a query into a form required by the web service to perform the operation. The adapter code includes mapping a received input value for the search query parameter to the input parameter and includes mapping a received output value for the output parameter to the search result parameter. The adapter code also translates a result of the operation. In some embodiments a wizard is used to generate a web service adapter with a graphical user interface making it easy to create and integrate the adapter. The adapter can thereby easily be configured so that input output access and login parameters of the web service are appropriately mapped to a system s application parameters. In addition complex search syntax can be supported between the web service and the system s application as well.

The value of such an adapter is in its integration with the search application of the content management system. The adapter provides a unified view to a searching user the query language is unified as well as the format of the search results. As the source is exposed through an ECI Adapter it benefits also from query compensation already available to other adapters for example the ECI Server may transform the query and do post filtering to emulate missing capabilities in the source.

In some embodiments a login operation is selected by the user. Login information is received enabling the web adapter to utilize the web service. Login information can include a username and or a password or any other kind of credentials . In some embodiments an access operation is selected by the user. Access includes gaining access to content that is pointed to during the search operation e.g. content at a uniform resource locator URL identified by a search result .

In some embodiments the access operation has no parameters to map. In some embodiments the developer can specify a configuration parameter indicating preferred content format or language for the adapter as an input for a content access operation.

In various embodiments the generated web service adapter code enables access to content at a URL identified by a search result or logging into a web service enabling using a web service as an information source during a search where the search calls on and uses a web service adapter to provide said capability. In some embodiments the same adapter that is generated by the wizard is used for access such that the access operation is automated so that the adapter code enables access to content through an adapter generated access method.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

