---

title: Memory assistance system comprising of a signal processing server receiving a media signal and associated data relating to information to be remembered and processing the input signal to identify media characteristics relevant to aiding user memory
abstract: Methods and systems for enhancing and/or improving one's memory are disclosed. In one embodiment of the invention, a computer-implemented memory assistance system is comprised of a client and a memory assistance server. The memory assistance server includes a signal processing server to receive and process media signals (e.g., audio, video, or photographs) and associated data received from the client. The signal processing server includes a variety of servers or services for processing signals and/or data. Each signal processing server or service identifies characteristics of the received media signal that are relevant to aiding a user in recalling and/or reinforcing an existing memory of a particular event or fact. In addition, the memory assistance server includes presentation logic to generate one or more media clips from the received media signal. Furthermore, the presentation logic determines a time and medium to present one or more media clips to a user so as to aid the user in recalling and/or reinforcing one or more existing memories of a particular event or fact.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716153&OS=07716153&RS=07716153
owner: Reqall, Inc.
number: 07716153
owner_city: Moffett Field
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061115
---
The invention relates generally to methods and systems for enhancing and or augmenting one s memory. In particular the invention relates to methods and systems for recording analyzing searching and playing back media signals e.g. audio and or video in a manner that facilitates and enhances one s ability to recall events or facts associated with portions of such signals.

Memory is the ability of a person to store retain and subsequently recall information such as events episodic memories and facts semantic memories . Memory researchers have identified a variety of memory problems and have made attempts to label or categorize the memory problems based on their characteristics or symptoms. For example one category of memory problems referred to simply as forgetting involves the inability to recall events or facts. For example when someone hears a song on the radio that he or she is familiar with and he or she cannot recall the name of the singer at that particular moment in time he or she is experiencing a memory problem involving forgetting. There are several memory problems that fall within the category of forgetting. One such problem is referred to as transience. Transience involves the fading of memories over time. Another memory problem within the category of forgetting referred to as absent mindedness involves shallow processing for example forgetting to do things. A third memory problem falling under the category of forgetting is referred to as blocking. Blocking involves the inability to temporarily recall a fact or event that is known to be within one s memory such as in the example provided above involving the singer.

Another category of memory problems involves what is referred to as distortion. Distortion occurs not when memories cannot be recalled but when memories are recalled incorrectly. For example misattribution is a memory problem that occurs when one correctly recalls a particular event or fact but attributes it to an incorrect source. Suggestibility is a memory problem involving implanting or associating incorrect memories with a proper memory. Finally a memory problem referred to as bias involves distorting or unconsciously influencing a memory.

Memory researchers have suggested some solutions to some of these memory problems. For instance through memory research it has been shown that the more time spent rehearsing a particular memory the better the encoding of the memory. This is particularly true if the rehearsal takes place soon after the event. Furthermore periodically refreshing one s memory about a given event or fact reduces the chance that the memory will be forgotten in time transience or will be perturbed due to memory bias. Unfortunately very few tools that simplify and enhance these memory improving processes exist.

There are some well known tools that help people store and recall information. For example calendar and scheduling software applications exist to help people recall appointments meetings anniversaries birthdays and other time related events. Similarly contact management software applications exist to help people recall contact information such as telephone numbers and addresses for business contacts friends and family members. However most of these tools are designed to serve as substitutes for one s memory as opposed to enhancing one s memory. In fact to a certain extent depending on such devices to recall certain information e.g. phone numbers may actually diminish one s ability to recall the information from his or her memory. Accordingly new tools are needed to both enhance and augment one s memory.

Methods and systems for enhancing and or improving one s memory are disclosed. In one embodiment of the invention a computer implemented memory assistance system is comprised of a client and a memory assistance server. The memory assistance server includes a signal processing server to receive and process media signals e.g. audio video or photographs and associated data received from the client. The signal processing server includes a variety of servers or services for processing signals and or data. Each signal processing server or service identifies characteristics of the received media signal that are relevant to aiding a user in recalling and or reinforcing an existing memory of a particular event or fact. In addition the memory assistance server includes presentation logic to generate one or more media clips from the received media signal. Furthermore based on an evaluation of a user s situation at any given moment in time the presentation logic determines the time and medium to present one or more media clips to a user so as to aid the user in recalling and or reinforcing one or more existing memories of a particular event or fact.

Reference will now be made in detail to an implementation consistent with the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts. Although discussed with reference to these illustrations the present invention is not limited to the implementations illustrated therein. Hence the reader should regard these illustrations merely as examples of embodiments of the present invention the full scope of which is measured only in terms of the claims following this description.

As illustrated in the memory assistance server is coupled to a user s personal computer by means of a network . Accordingly in one embodiment of the invention a user may interact with the memory assistance server via an application executing on his or her personal computer . For example the user may utilize a conventional web browser to administer configure and or otherwise interact with the memory assistance server . A user may also use a special purpose application other than a conventional web browser to interact with the memory assistance server . As described in greater detail below a wide variety of software applications and client devices other than personal computers may be used to interact with the memory assistance server . For example while away from his personal computer a user may interact with the memory assistance server via a conventional land line phone or wireless mobile smart phone.

As illustrated in in one embodiment of the invention the memory assistance server operates in a multi user mode. As described in greater detail below a user generally interacts with the memory assistance server by communicating one or more media signals e.g. audio video or photograph signals to the memory assistance server and then later having the memory assistance server present or play back one or more media signals that have been strategically selected by the memory assistance server to address a particular memory problem. In multi user mode the memory assistance server may receive a media signal generated during a conversation between several persons. For example one or more persons may activate or otherwise establish a connection to the memory assistance server by means of a mobile phone personal computer or other communication device such that a conversation between the users is communicated in real time e.g. as it occurs to the memory assistance server . Alternatively one of the users may capture the media signal first for example by storing the media signal locally in a flash memory a fixed disk drive or other local storage component. Then at a later time the user can initiate the transfer of the recorded media signal to the memory assistance server .

As illustrated in the memory assistance server may execute as a stand alone application on a user s device such as a personal computer or smart phone. When executing in a stand alone mode on a personal computer a user may interact with the memory assistance server via the personal computer s user interface and input devices e.g. keyboard mouse camera microphone . In one embodiment of the invention a user may transfer media signals or media files to the stand alone application via a mobile device connected to the computer by means of a wireless connection e.g. WiFi or Bluetooth or a wired connection. Alternatively the user may connect to the personal computer by means of a land line phone mobile phone or other like kind communication device.

As described in greater detail below there are a wide variety of mechanisms for capturing a media signal and communicating the media signal to the memory assistance server . For instance in the single user mode of the user may actively issue directives to the memory assistance server by speaking into a microphone attached to his or her personal computer . Similarly a user may use a video or photographic camera to capture video or photographs which in turn can be communicated to the memory assistance server either directly e.g. if the capture device includes a supported means of communication such as wireless networking support or indirectly by coupling the capture device to a network connected computer. A user may capture a lecture a conversation or other social interaction on a video camera or audio recording device and then upload the captured recording to the memory assistance server .

The memory assistance server is designed to address a wide range of memory problems. Accordingly the user s interaction with the memory assistance server may vary with the particular type of memory problem being addressed. In general however a user interacts with the memory assistance server by communicating recorded media signals e.g. audio video photographs to the memory assistance server over a network and then at a later time viewing or listening to media clips from the media signal that have been selected by the memory assistance server as being particularly helpful in assisting the user in addressing a particular memory problem. In one embodiment of the invention the selection of the particular media clips to be presented the length and number of media clips to be presented the time at which the media clips are to be presented and the presentation medium and or play back method e.g. phone computer are all dynamically determined by the memory assistance server depending upon the particular memory problem being addressed and the current context. In determining the current context the memory assistance server may process a wide variety of real time and non real time data including but not limited to the current time date current or past location of the user proximity of the user to another person calendaring information such as past current or future scheduled appointments or meetings persons with whom the user is scheduled to meet or speak with as well as events such as birthdays or anniversaries.

In addition the client device may be a computer based phone such as a softphone. A softphone is a software application that executes on a computing device e.g. a general purpose computer or a communication device and enables the computing device to operate in much the same way as a traditional land line phone. Typically a softphone encapsulates a voice signal into data packets that are sent over the computer s data network connection. Perhaps the most common type of softphone is a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phone. A VoIP phone utilizes conventional networking protocols such as TCP IP and or UDP to carry voice data over a conventional data network.

As illustrated in the client device includes one or more sensing components or signal generators for capturing a media signal. For example the signal generator may be a conventional microphone video camera for capturing streaming images photographic capturing device for capturing photographs or still images or a combination of such devices.

In addition the client device includes a communication component for communicating the captured media signal to the memory assistance server . The communication component may provide support for any number of conventional wired or wireless network and or communication protocols for establishing communication sessions between the client device and the memory assistance server . For example the communication component may support wired e.g. Ethernet port USB port or Fire Wire port or wireless e.g. 802.11 or WiFi Bluetooth or infrared communications. The communication component may support real time communications such that a media signal generated by the sensing component is communicated to the memory assistance server in real lime or near real time e.g. as it is generated . In addition in some cases the communication component is capable of communicating previously captured data stored in local storage .

The client device also includes a time indicator which may be as simple as an internal clock or a network updated clock for indicating the time. In one embodiment the time indicator generates date time information that is embedded in media signals generated by the sensing component such that the memory assistance server can analyze date time information associated with media signals generated by the client device . Accordingly the date time may indicate that another characteristic of the media signal e.g. text included in audio is relevant because it occurred at a particular time. For example a user may use the memory assistance server s search component described in greater detail below to query for all media clips that include certain key words spoken within a particular time period.

In addition the client device may include a location indicator that generates location information. The location indicator may use global positioning system GPS technology to determine the location of the client device particularly when the client device is in an outdoor location. Various other technologies might be used to determine the location of the client device when it is outdoors and or indoors. For instance the location indicator might use a radiolocation triangulation or trilateration technology commonly found in mobile phones WiFi or Bluetooth devices for determining location information. In addition one or more of the above technologies may be used with another radio frequency RF based communication devices including a device using the Citizens Band CB .

After the client device captures the location information the location information may be embedded into a media signal generated by the sensing component or communicated separately to the memory assistance server . In any case the location information provides the memory assistance server with additional data for determining the potential relevance of a portion of a media signal. That is the memory assistance server may determine that the location at which a media signal is generated based on location information associated with a particular portion of a media signal adds to its relevance as a potential memory trigger for a particular event or fact. Again using the search component of the server a user may query the server for all media clips captured at or near a particular location. Furthermore as described in greater detail below the memory assistance server may use location information indicating a user s current location to determine that a particular media clip should be presented to the user.

The location indicator component may also allow the client device to detect other persons or objects within proximity of the user. For example in one embodiment of the invention the location indicator may include a sensor for sensing other hardware devices within a given range of the client device . Accordingly in one embodiment of the invention a Bluetooth transceiver in the client device may periodically poll other devices within range of the client device for example by issuing a simple request asking another device to identify itself. Accordingly if another user s hardware device responds to the client device s request the client device attempts to identify the identity of the responding device or a person associated with the responding device. For example if the responding device provides a phone number or other personal information of the device owner the client device may perform a lookup operation to determine if the user of the client device has contact information associated with the identity of the responding device. In another embodiment of the invention a centralized server may provide the proximity information. For example data received from a mobile phone service provider may indicate the proximity of the user to another person in the user s contact list. Accordingly the proximity information may be passed along to the memory assistance server and used in determining whether a particular media clip should be presented to the user at a later time as a memory trigger.

Depending in part on the particular memory problem being addressed the time location and proximity information may be used by the memory assistance server to identify portions of a media signal e.g. video or audio signal that have characteristics best suited for use as a memory trigger to assist the user in recalling a particular event or fact. For example if a particular media signal is generated in a particular location or at a particular time or in the proximity of a particular person the particular location time or proximity information may indicate that portions of the signal occurring at that particular time and location may be particularly useful in aiding a person to recall a particular fact or event if the particular portions of the signal are presented to the user. Furthermore it may be useful to present one or more media clips captured in the proximity of a particular person to a user at a future time when the user is again within the proximity of the person or when calendaring information indicates the user will be meeting with the particular person.

In one embodiment of the invention the client device also includes a biometric sensor for generating a biometric signal. Like the time information and location information the biometric signal provides the memory assistance server with additional data for determining whether a portion of a media signal is relevant or useful if presented as a memory trigger in aiding a person s memory of a particular fact or event. For example the client device may include a biometric sensor e.g. galvanic skin response sensor . If a mobile phone with a built in galvanic skin sensor communicates to the memory assistance server both an audio signal from a conversation between a user and another person and biometric information generated by a skin sensor then the signal processing logic of the memory assistance server can analyze the audio signal and the biometric information to determine portions of the audio signal where the biometric information changes. Such changes in the biometric information particularly deviations from the user s normal biometric levels may indicate particular moments in the conversation that are relevant in triggering memories of the content of the conversation. For example such changes in the biometric information may indicate that a user has entered into a particular state e.g. mental or emotional state or is experiencing a particular condition. Accordingly if portions of the conversation are played back to the user at a later time those portions of the conversation when the biometric information changed significantly may enable the user to better recall the content and details of the conversation. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the usefulness of the biometric information and the algorithms that may be used in determining significant memory triggering events. In addition to a galvanic skin sensor for detecting excitation other sensors may be used to detect the following information to be used in determining the relevance of a particular media clip a speaker s mood a speaker s volume a speaker s voice a speaker turn taking rate a speech rate a person s gaze a person s posture a person s heart rate a person s blood glucose level.

Finally the client device includes a local storage component for storing data such as media signals generated by the sensing component . As indicated above in one embodiment of the invention data generated by the client device may be communicated in real time e.g. as it is generated . Alternatively data may be stored locally as it is generated and then communicated to the memory assistance server at a later time. Furthermore in one embodiment of the invention after communicating a media signal to the memory assistance server with one client device a different client device may be used to receive and or play back media clips from the memory assistance server . For example a personal media player device that is capable of presenting various media files such as an iPod may be used to play back media clips.

In one embodiment of the invention the memory assistance server may be coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server. Accordingly one method of communicating with the memory assistance server may be as simple as connecting to the IVR server by dialing a particular telephone number via a conventional dial pad or touch tone buttons of a land line phone. In such a case the audio signal communicated to the memory assistance server is captured at the IVR and redirected to the memory assistance server . With other client devices e.g. a voice recording device a user may capture a media signal e.g. an audio conversation on the client device first and then subsequently submit the captured signal to the memory assistance server .

In one embodiment of the invention the memory assistance server can be thought of as having two primary levels of logic a first level of logic for analyzing input signals as they are received to identify signal characteristics of interest and a second level of logic for organizing media clips determining what media clips should be presented when the clips should be presented and in what manner the clips should be presented. As described herein the first layer of logic is referred to as the signal processing logic and the second layer of logic is referred to as the presentation logic . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the logic abstraction described herein is primarily for the sake of making the description of the various functions easy to understand. Accordingly in various alternative embodiments of the invention one or more functions described herein as being associated with one logic layer e.g. the signal processing logic may or may not be a part of or associated with a particular layer of logic.

The signal processing logic is configured to analyze media signals and external data so as to determine what portions of each signal have specific attributes or characteristics that indicate a high likelihood that the portion of the signal is a good memory trigger for a particular event or fact. A variety of signal characteristics and external data may be analyzed in determining the relevant portions of a media signal to be played back as a memory trigger for solving a particular memory problem. For example as illustrated in the memory assistance server may receive as input data in the form of audio signals video signals photographs biometric signals time date location signals signals indicating the proximity of the user to a particular location or the proximity of the user to one or more other persons as well as other externally generated data. Accordingly each of the input signals may be individually and or collectively analyzed to determine whether the signal or signals represent a source of information that may be useful as a memory trigger in solving a particular memory problem.

One type of information that is often useful for solving memory problems is audio information. For instance hearing audio clips from a previously recorded conversation lecture or dictated reminder e.g. a note to one s self can often help one recall a memory e.g. an event or fact associated with the audio clip. In addition repeatedly hearing an audio clip may help to biologically encode the memory so it is retained over a longer time period and more easily recalled in the future. Accordingly the signal processing logic includes a speech processing module . Generally the speech processing module analyzes audio signals to identify keywords in speech captured in the audio signal. The speech processing module includes a speech recognition component and a text analysis component . The speech recognition component uses speech recognition algorithms to identify spoken words in speech included in an audio signal and convert the spoken words to textual words. The text analysis component works in conjunction with the speech recognition component to identify keywords and or key phrases recognized by the speech recognition component . By identifying keywords and or key phrases the speech processing module can associate portions of a media signal with one or more categories or topics and thereby associate media clips with particular memory problems.

For example in one embodiment of the invention each particular memory problem may have one or more predefined media objects associated with the memory problem. The concept of media objects is described in greater detail below with respect to the description of . The media objects may be system defined or alternatively a media object may be user defined. Each media object may have one or more media characteristics associated with the media object such that any portion of a media signal having corresponding characteristics is selected as a potential media clip to solve the associated memory problem. For example a media object for a memory problem associated with remembering a grocery list may be associated with several keywords where each keyword corresponds with a potential grocery list item. Accordingly as the speech processing module identifies the keywords associated with the grocery list media object in a particular media signal the memory assistance server may generate a media clip from the portion of the media signal including the keyword or words. Alternatively the portion of the media signal may be tagged for example with meta data to indicate that the portion of the media signal includes the keywords and or is associated with a topic or category associated with the keywords.

The text analysis component may identify portions of a media signal that are associated with particular topics based on the identification of one or more keywords or phrases in close proximity in time to one another. For example if the word milk appears just before or just after the words super market then the particular portion of the audio signal including those key words may be associated with the topic grocery list items. 

In addition to analyzing audio signals the signal processing logic includes an image analysis component that is configured to analyze video and or photographs. Accordingly the image analysis component may be configured to identify attributes or characteristics of the video and or photographs that indicate that the image or images may be particularly useful in addressing a particular memory problem. For example the image analysis component may use facial recognition algorithms to identify people within images. By presenting portions of a video or particular photographs that include images of a particular person memories associated with that person may be refreshed or recalled. The image analysis component may for example analyze images to determine a location in which a person is looking. If for example a person is gazing directly at someone or something this might indicate that particular portion of the media clip is relevant in solving a particular memory problem. Similarly if a person appears to have a blank look on his face as if he is staring into space in a particular portion of a video image it may indicate the person is not paying close attention. Consequently that portion of the video signal may be useful if replayed to the user. A wide variety of algorithms may be used to select the particular portions of a video image that are relevant and often the selection will depend on the particular memory problem being addressed. Accordingly video or pictures may be presented to a user as a memory trigger for a particular memory of an event or fact.

In one embodiment of the invention the signal processing logic includes a biometric signal processing component . In general the biometric signal processing component identifies biometric information that may indicate that a particular portion of a signal includes information that is useful in solving a particular memory problem. For example the biometric signal processing component may process biometric signals to identify points in time where the change in a biometric signal indicates the emotional state of a person has changed. Such changes may indicate that a portion of a signal is a good candidate for a memory trigger. Consequently a media clip may be selected based on identifying changes in biometric information. That is a portion of a media signal may be selected based on a change in biometric information perceived from a biometric signal associated with the media clip. Again a wide variety of algorithms may be used to determine when the biometric information indicates that a portion of a media signal may be particularly relevant in solving a particular memory problem and in general the algorithm used will be dependent upon the particular memory problem being solved.

The biometric signal processing component may also include speaker identification logic for analyzing audio signals to detect or identify a speaker associated with a particular voice signal. For example the biometric signal processing component may use voice profiles associated with individual users of the system to identify and associate a particular portion of an audio signal with a particular person. Accordingly the association of the particular person with the spoken text can be used to determine the potential relevance of the media signal to a particular memory problem. For example a user may want to identify ail audio conversations including the voice of a particular person such as a professor. The user can associate the professor s voice profile with a media object associated with a particular memory problem. As the memory assistance server identifies media signals including the professor s voice the memory assistance server will generate media clips associated with the media object for the particular memory problem. Accordingly the user can later select to hear all media clips with the professor s voice.

In one embodiment of the invention the signal processing logic includes a date time analysis component as well as a location analysis component . Date time and location information may be received at the memory assistance server as separate input signals or alternatively date time and location information may be embedded in another signal such as an audio signal a video signal or a photograph. The date time analysis component and or the location analysis component analyze date time and location information respectively to determine whether the date time and or location at which events occurred indicate that a portion of the media signal may be a good memory trigger for a particular fact or event. For example if the memory assistance server is configured to generate a series of clips to aid in encoding memories associated with a class lecture the memory assistance server might select media clips that were captured during the time and at the location where the lectured occurred.

In one embodiment of the invention the location analyzer component may utilize an external or internal geographic information system GIS . As illustrated in the system includes an external GIS however it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the system may be implemented with an internal GIS. In any case the location analyzer component may issue queries to the GIS to determine relevant geographical information. For example if the location analysis component receives coordinates along with or associated with a particular media signal the location analysis component may query the GIS to determine specific geographical information. This may be done to determine characteristics of a media signal. For example the location analyzer component may send a query to the GIS to determine geographical characteristics of a particular media signal such as whether the media signal was generated in the proximity of a location or type of location such as a particular type of business. For example the location analysis component may query the GIS with the coordinates to determine if the media signal was generated at or near a particular type of business such as a grocery store or a golf course or any other potentially relevant type of business. Accordingly the GIS provides rich set of features for converting simple geographical coordinates into meaningful geographical information. In addition the GIS may be queried with current coordinates of a user to determine whether one or more media clips should be presented to the user based on his current location. For example if the location analyzer component receives information from a client device indicating that the client device is located at particular geographical coordinates the presentation logic may query the GIS to determine whether the particular geographical coordinates match geographical information associated with a particular memory problem. For example the GIS may be queried to determine if the user is within close proximity of a type of business such as a grocery store. Accordingly if the user s current location is relevant with respect to a particular memory problem the memory assistance server may attempt to present one or more media clips to the user for that particular memory problem. For example if current geographical coordinates indicate that the user is within close proximity to a grocery store the memory assistance server may automatically establish a connection with the user s client device e.g. mobile phone and play back one or more media clips associated with a grocery list.

The second layer of logic involves what is referred to herein as presentation logic . The presentation logic facilitates organizing and presenting signal data to a user in a manner suited to address one or more particular memory problems. For instance if a user is experiencing a memory blocking problem where the user simply cannot recall an event or fact even though the user knows he or she has knowledge of that event or fact the user may use the search engine component to find an appropriate memory trigger. The search engine component enables a user to specify search parameters that correspond with characteristics of media signals and then perform searches to locate media clips having characteristics that match the user specified search parameters. For example a user may Issue a query e.g. via a web interface to locate all media clips captured at a particular location during a particular time and including a particular keyword or key phrase. The search engine component performs a search of media stored in database storage to identify those portions of any previously captured and stored media signals that have characteristics that match the search parameters. Accordingly the memory assistance server will present the user with the media clips that match the search.

In addition to enabling active searches for media clips the presentation logic includes a presentation scheduler for automatically scheduling the presentation of media clips to the user. The presentation scheduler may present media clips to the user based on a user defined schedule or alternatively a system defined schedule. For instance a user may configure the memory assistance server to present media clips having certain characteristics at a particular time of day. For example if a user would like to review media clips from a weekly lecture the user may enable the server to select clips based on certain characteristics and then schedule those clips to be played back to the user every morning during the user s drive to work. The presentation scheduler may handle the means and method by which the media clips are presented which may he user or system defined . Accordingly if the user indicates that the he or she would like the media clips presented over the phone the memory assistance server may establish a communication session with the user s mobile phone and then play back media clips. Alternatively the server may create a podcast or similar presentation and automatically download the podcast to the user s media playing device.

In addition to user defined schedules the presentation scheduler may automatically schedule the presentation of media clips to the user. For instance the memory assistance server may analyze a variety of input data on a real time basis to determine whether to present media clips to the user. In one embodiment of the invention the presentation logic may analyze calendar information to determine a user s daily schedule. If the user has scheduled a meeting on a particular topic or with a particular person or group of persons the presentation logic will attempt to identify any media clips that may be associated with the particular topic of the meeting or the persons or group. Accordingly the presentation scheduler can play back or present potentially relevant media clips from past interactions that the user had with the person or group.

In another example the presentation logic may analyze the current location of the user in order to determine whether a media clip or clips should be presented to the user. For example if the user has established a grocery reminder list the presentation scheduler may initiate a communication session with the user by establishing a connection to the user s mobile phone and then play back media clips associated with the user s grocery list. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the presentation schedule may use a wide variety of means and methods for communicating data to the user. For instance the memory assistance server may communicate data by phone or computer network including email and text messaging including SMS MMS as well as by instant messaging services .

The presentation logic includes a media clip organizer . In one embodiment of the invention the media clip organizer facilitates ranking or grouping of media clips based on their overall relevance. Accordingly if a fixed number of media clips are to be presented at a particular time those media clips that have been assigned the highest priority by the media clip organizer may be presented. In addition the media clip organizer may assist in the generation and storage of meta data associated with the key characteristics of media signals as identified by the signal processing logic . For instance as media signals are initially received and analyzed key characteristics may be identified. The media clip organizer may generate meta data and store the meta data in a manner that enables later searches to be performed based on the key characteristics.

The presentation logic also includes a media clip object generator . The media clip object generator facilitates the generation of media clip objects for media clips. As described in greater detail below in connection with the description of a media clip object is a data object having associated parameters that define the characteristics that make a particular portion of a media clip relevant to a particular memory problem. For instance a media clip object may be defined for a grocery list. Accordingly the grocery list media clip object may have parameters defined for it which determine the characteristics to be included in a media signal that is to be associated with a grocery list. The parameters may include keywords associated with food items or locations where a person is likely to make remarks about a grocery list such as the user s home or kitchen.

Finally in one embodiment of the memory assistance server a media compression server may be included. Accordingly the media compression server compresses media signals received by the input module of the memory assistance server prior to storing the media signals in the database storage .

As illustrated in object 1 for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS includes characteristics such as keywords voice profiles dates and times location and possibly others. Accordingly the characteristics can be logically combined to select portions of media clips that are particularly relevant to helping a user remember events or facts related to golf instructions. For example the signal processing logic or presentation logic may select a portion of a media signal to be associated with object 1 if the signal has characteristics set forth by the parameters defined by object 1. Similarly object 2 is a media clip object for a GROCERY LIST. Accordingly media signals captured based on satisfying parameters specified by object 2 may be used to help a user remember his grocery list. Each media clip object may be predefined by an administrator of the system or by a user of the system. Furthermore in one embodiment of the invention the server is configured to monitor how users interact with various media clips. Accordingly the server may automatically alter one or more aspects of a media clip based on user behavior.

Referring again to a variety of keywords are shown to be associated with the media object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. Accordingly when a media signal is processed by the signal analysis server the speech processing component will attempt to identify words or phrases from the media signal that match one or more keywords or key phrases associated with the media clip object. If the word swing is identified in the media signal a media clip may be generated. The media clip may include a portion of the media signal before and or after the identified keyword. A user may recall the media clip by selecting to present media clips associated with the media object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. For example if the user is on the golf course the user may use his mobile phone to communicate with the memory assistance server and then select to play previously captured media clips associated with the media clip object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. The media clips presented to the user may help the user recall golf instructions communicated to the user at a previous golf instruction lesson.

In addition to keywords other characteristics of a media signal may be used to identify and generate relevant media clips. For example in one embodiment of the invention the biometric signal processing component of the memory assistance server may have speaker identification capabilities. Accordingly a user may associate particular voice profiles with different media clip objects. For example in the case of the media clip object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS a user may select to associate the voice profile of his or her golf instructor. When the signal processing logic of the memory assistance server identifies a portion of a media signal including the golf instructor s voice the memory assistance server may generate a media clip from that portion of the media signal.

Other characteristics associated with media clips are date time and location. A user or a system administrator may define a particular date and or time that is relevant with respect to a particular media clip object. If the user knows that his or her golf lessons always occur on Tuesday or Thursday for example the user may elect to associate those days with the media clip object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. Accordingly those days will be used to identify potentially relevant media clips. Similarly the user s proximity to a person or location is a characteristic that can be used to identify potentially relevant media clips. For example a user may associate a particular person or a geographical area with the media clip object for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. When a media signal includes data or is associated with another signal indicating the user was at a particular location or in the proximity of a particular person at the time the media clip was generated and captured the memory assistance server can use that information to determine the relevancy of the media clip.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the above mentioned characteristics may be combined in different ways to create different criteria for selecting ranking and organizing media clips. Furthermore because the individual sensors used in the system may not always calculate or determine a particular characteristic with 100 certainty probabilistic reasoning may be used. Accordingly media clip selection and creation may be based on a determination that a measure of one or more characteristics equals or exceeds a threshold value. For example in one embodiment the measure of a characteristic may be expressed as a probability. Accordingly the signal processing server may generate a media clip associated with the label GOLF INSTRUCTIONS by combining evidence from various characteristics e.g. a portion of the media clip includes a particular keyword e.g. swing with a certain probability includes the golf instructors voice with a certain probability and is generated at a certain location with a certain probability . In one embodiment the probability measure associated with each characteristic can be combined to determine the probability that the media clip should be associated with a media object for GOLF INSTRUCTION. In an alternative embodiment a media clip may be generated or assigned to a particular media object when a probability measure associated with each characteristic exceeds a predetermined minimum threshold value associated with the particular characteristic. In any case combining characteristics with various probabilities may be used to build queries for each media clip object. It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that combining evidence from various sources to determine a conclusion may be implemented using one or more other techniques such as perceptrons neural networks Bayesian networks decision trees or various combinations of these.

As illustrated in the media signal includes a first portion that has characteristics that satisfy the parameters set out by media object 1. For example the portion of media signal indicated by reference number has been identified to include characteristics satisfying the parameters set forth by media clip object 1 for GOLF INSTRUCTIONS. Specifically the portion of the media signal includes the word golf the location Pine Hurst Course with a golf instructor nearby. The proximity to the golf instructor may be determined for example by a Bluetooth signal transmitted by the golf instructor s mobile phone device and detected by the user s mobile phone. In any case because that portion of the media signal satisfies the attributes or parameters set out by media object 1 a media clip e.g. media clip B is generated and associated with media object 1. As described above the media clip organizer may arrange or rank the media clips in order of their overall relevance as it relates to media clip object 1.

In addition to the portion of the media signal satisfying the parameters for media object 1 a second portion of the media signal satisfies the attributes for media object 4 for the GROCERY LIST object. Accordingly a media clip e.g. media clip X is generated for media clip object 4 for the GROCERY LIST. 

A few examples of how the system may operate are provided. In one embodiment of the invention the memory assistance server has several modes of operation. For instance in one embodiment a user may Issue a directive or command to the memory assistance server . For example a user may establish a communication session with the memory assistance server and direct the server to remind the user about several grocery items that the user would like to purchase. The user may speak a command such as remind me to buy bananas canned tuna milk and frozen pizzas. The speech processing module of the memory assistance server will analyze the speech by performing a speech recognition process on the spoken words and identifying the keywords associated with a grocery list media object. Accordingly the memory assistance server may categorize the keywords as being associated with a grocery list and generate a media clip associated with a media object for the grocery list. The next time the user is near a grocery store the presentation logic of the memory assistance server may initiate a reminder notification to remind the user of the grocery list. The user s location may be determined by location information provided by the user s smart phone. The location analysis component of the memory assistance server will analyze the location information to determine if the user is in the general proximity of a grocery store and if so the memory assistance server will initiate a reminder process to communicate the grocery list media clip to the user.

In another example the user records a conversation with his or her golf instructor during a golf lesson. After the golf lesson the user communicates the recorded media file to the memory assistance server which analyzes the media file and identifies keywords indicating that a portion of the media file should be associated with a media object established for golf lessons. Prior to the user s next golf outing the user can perform a search for all media clips associated with golf lessons. For instance the user may simply select all media clips associated with the GOLF INSTRUCTIONS media object or else the user may specify search parameters for a general search of all stored media. In any case the memory assistance server will present the proper media clips to the user to refresh the user s memory about the golf lessons.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the various components of the system described herein may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. Similarly various embodiments of the invention may include only subsets of the entire functionality described herein without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The foregoing description of various implementations of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed. A speech recognition system consistent with an embodiment of the invention may take one of several form factors. Furthermore It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention may find practical application in a variety of alternative contexts that have not explicitly been addressed herein. Finally the illustrative processing steps performed by a computer implemented program e.g. instructions may be executed simultaneously or in a different order than described above and additional processing steps may be incorporated. The invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. Software may be both object oriented and non object oriented. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

