---

title: Piezo-electric actuator and electronic device
abstract: Piezo-electric actuator  of the present invention comprises piezo-electric element  for performing expansion/contraction motions in accordance with an electric field condition, seat  to which piezo-electric element  is adhered on at least one surface thereof, and supporting member  for supporting piezo-electric element  and seat , wherein piezo-electric element  and seat  vibrate up and down in accordance with the expansion/contraction motions of piezo-electric element . Seat  is connected to supporting member  through vibration  film which is less rigid than this seat 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08319396&OS=08319396&RS=08319396
owner: NEC Corporation
number: 08319396
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061226
---
The present invention relates to a piezo electric actuator for generating vibrations using a piezo electric element and an electronic device using the same.

Conventionally electromagnetic actuators have been utilized as driving sources for acoustic elements such as loud speakers and the like because of its ease of handling. The electromagnetic actuator comprises a permanent magnet and a voice coil and generates vibrations by the action of a magnetic circuit of a stator using a magnet. An electromagnetic speaker in turn generates sound by vibrations of a lowly rigid vibration plate of an organic film or the like which is fixed to a vibration section of an electromagnetic actuator.

Incidentally the need for portable telephones and personal computers has increased in recent years and associated therewith small and power saving actuators have been increasingly demanded. However since the electromagnetic actuator needs to apply a large current to the voice coil during its operation it has a problem in power saving capabilities and is not apt to a reduction in size and thickness from a structural viewpoint. In addition the electromagnetic actuator must be electromagnetically shielded when it is applied to an electronic device in order to prevent evil influences due to leaking flux from the voice coil. From this aspect the electromagnetic actuator is not either apt for use in small electronic devices such as portable telephones. Moreover a reduction in size causes the voice coil to be made of a thinner wire and a resulting increase in resistance of the wire can burn the voice coil as well.

In view of the problems mentioned above piezo electric actuators have been developed using a piezo electric element such as piezo electric ceramic or the like which has such features as a small size and light weight power saving capabilities non leaking flux and the like for a driving source as a thin vibration part which can substitute for the electromagnetic actuator. The piezo electric actuator generates mechanical vibrations through motions of a piezo electric element and comprises for example a piezo electric ceramic element simply called a piezo electric element as well which is bonded to a seat.

The basic configuration of a piezo electric actuator will be described with reference to . is a perspective view showing the configuration of a conventional piezo electric actuator and is a cross sectional view schematically showing how the piezo electric actuator of vibrates.

As shown in piezo electric actuator comprises piezo electric element made of piezo electric ceramics seat to which piezo electric element is fixed and frame shaped supporting member for supporting the outer periphery of seat . As piezo electric element is applied with an AC voltage piezo electric element performs expansion contraction motions. As shown in seat deforms in a convex mode indicated by solid lines or deforms in a concave mode indicated by broken lines in accordance with the expansion contraction motions. In this way seat vibrates in a vertical direction as viewed in the figures with bonded area serving as a fixed end and the center of the seat serving as a belly.

For reference the piezo electric actuator though it is advantageous in a reduction in size ant thickness exhibits poor performance as an acoustic element in one aspect as compared with the electromagnetic actuator. This is attributable to the piezo electric element which is highly rigid and incapable of providing a sufficient average vibration amplitude as compared with the electromagnetic actuator. In other words this is because as the actuator has a small amplitude sound pressure of an acoustic element is also reduced. On the other hand JP 61 168971 A and JP 2000 140759 A disclose configurations which support the outer periphery of a seat by a beam which is relatively easy to deform in order to increase the amplitude of vibrations of an actuator.

Also JP 2001 17917 A discloses to the same effect a technique for providing a large vibration amplitude with a plate spring which is created by slitting in a peripheral region of a seat along its circumference. JP 2001 339791 A also discloses a technique for widening a frequency characteristic by bonding the outer periphery of a seat with a supporting member through a curved supporting member.

However the piezo electric actuators described in JP A 61 168971 A JP 2000 140759 A and JP 2001 17917 A are essentially used mainly as vibrators contained in portable telephones and the like and are not at all considered for use in reproduction of music and the like as an acoustic element such as a speaker. In other words when they are applied to vibrators the amplitude can be simply extended only at particular frequencies whereas when they are applied to speakers even their frequency characteristics must be taken into consideration. Specifically they must be configured to provide a sound pressure at a predetermined level or higher in a desired frequency band for example from 1 kHz to 10 kHz.

On the other hand JP 2001 339791 A is intended to generate displacements both in a thickness direction and a radial direction of piezo electric ceramics in a configuration in which the seat for restraining the piezo electric ceramics is bonded with the curved supporting member. With this curved supporting member it is possible to disperse stresses at characteristic points and an attenuation ratio reduce distortions and extend the band of the frequency characteristic but since vibrations occur both in the radial direction and thickness direction vibrations attenuate in a sound radiating direction. For this reason it must be configured to provide a sound pressure level at a predetermined level.

When even the frequency characteristic is taken into consideration as an acoustic element a simple increase in vibration amplitude of actuator is not sufficient but the manner of vibrations is desirably brought closer to a piston shape as shown in again described later in detail in later descriptions .

It is an object of the present invention to provide a piezo electric actuator and an electronic device which are capable of providing a large vibration amplitude and reproducing sound over a wide frequency band.

To solve the foregoing problem a piezo electric actuator of the present invention comprises a piezo electric element for performing expansion contraction motions in accordance with an electric field condition a seat to which the piezo electric element is adhered on at least one surface thereof and a supporting member for supporting the piezo electric element and the seat wherein the piezo electric element and the seat vibrate in a thickness direction of the piezo electric element in accordance with the expansion contraction motions of the piezo electric element. The piezo electric actuator is characterized in that the seat is connected to the supporting member through a vibration film which is less rigid than the seat.

In the piezo electric actuator of the present invention configured in this way the seat is connected to the supporting member through the vibration film which is less rigid than the seat and a connection vibration film section between the seat and the supporting member is susceptible to deformation as compared with the seat section so that the vibration amplitude is improved. Also such a susceptibility of the connection vibration film section to deformation means that vibrations become larger in this section and accordingly the vibration mode can be brought closer to a piston type a vibration mode similar to the electromagnetic actuator as compared with the conventional configuration. Further since an impact in the event of dropping is absorbed by the vibration film which intervenes between the seat and the supporting member dropping stability is high and applications to portable devices and the like are also possible.

In this regard the piezo electric actuator of the present invention comprises the vibration film as described above and sound can be generated by vibrating this vibration film. In other words the piezo electric actuator of the present invention can function as an acoustic element as it is without using an additional vibration film or the like.

As described above according to the piezo electric actuator of the present invention since the seat to which the piezo electric element is adhered and the supporting member are bonded through the vibration film which is less rigid than the seat vibrations of large amplitude can be produced and when this is used as an acoustic element sound can be reproduced over a wide frequency band.

In the following embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the drawings. In the configuration of each embodiment which will be described below the same structure components are designated the same reference numerals and repeated descriptions are omitted.

As shown in piezo electric actuator of this embodiment comprises piezo electric element which serves as a driving source of vibration seat for supporting piezo electric element and vibration film for supporting seat in a configuration in which they are laminated in order. Piezo electric element seat and vibration film all have circularly shaped contours and these three members are concentrically arranged such that they are centered at the same point. The outer periphery of vibration film is connected to and supported by supporting member which is formed in a circular frame shape.

More specifically piezo electric element comprises a piezo electric plate piezo electric ceramics having two main surfaces which oppose in parallel with each other and an upper electrode layer and a lower electrode layer neither of which is shown are formed on main surfaces respectively of the piezo electric plate. While a polarization direction of the piezo electric plate is not particularly limited it is upward in a vertical direction thickness direction of the piezo electric element in this embodiment as shown in the figure. Piezo electric element thus configured performs expansion contraction motions in the radial direction radially expanding motions such that both main surfaces thereof expand or contract at the same time when an AC voltage is applied to the upper electrode layer and lower electrode layer to apply an alternating electric field. In other words piezo electric element makes motions to repeat a first deformation mode in which the main surfaces expand and a second deformation mode in which the main surfaces contract.

Seat has a function of converting the expansion contraction motions of piezo electric element to vibrations in the vertical direction as shown in the figure. Seat is formed of a resilient material elastic material and as its material a material which is less rigid than a ceramic material which comprises the piezo electric element can be widely used such as a metal material for example aluminum alloy phosphor bronze titanium or titanium alloy or a resin material for example epoxy acrylic polyimide or polycarbonate and the like.

Main surface lower electrode layer of piezo electric element is fixed on a top surface of seat whereby seat restrains piezo electric element . In an area of seat on which piezo electric element is adhered is shown as restraining area and the remaining area area surrounding restraining area is shown as non restraining area

Vibration film is a film member for increasing a vibration amplitude of the piezo electric actuator and is less rigid than seat . As a combination of materials of seat with vibration film for example seat may be a metal material while vibration film may be a resin material for example urethane PTE polyethylene or the like . Alternatively seat and vibration film may be made of the same material and by making the thickness of vibration film relatively smaller vibration film may be made relatively less rigid. In this regard vibration film may be paper polyethylene telephthalate or the like other than those listed above.

The thickness of vibration film may be for example equal to or larger than 5 m and equal to or smaller than 500 m in the case of a resin material. Particularly when vibration film is a plane sheet material the thickness may be preferably equal to or larger than 30 m and equal to or smaller than 180 m.

Incidentally when a piezo electric actuator is utilized as an acoustic element an organic film or the like is often adhered to a vibrating section for example seat and the like of the piezo electric actuator to generate sound. On the other hand in this embodiment vibration film provided for increasing the amplitude additionally functions as a vibration film as it is. In other words vibration film simultaneously has not only a function as a vibration film in a conventional acoustic element but also a function of increasing the vibration amplitude of the actuator. In this regard the conventional configuration intended to increase the amplitude with the provision of a beam for example JP 61 168971 A differs from the configuration of the present invention. According to the configuration of the present invention a larger sound pressure can be produced due to the fact that the vibration film is provided. Nevertheless for designing an acoustic element a plurality of piezo electric actuators which differ in resonant frequency from one another may be adhered on a common vibration film to create a single acoustic element. In this way they can mutually compensate for bands in which sound pressure levels are lower thereby realizing an acoustic element which can provide a large sound pressure over a wider frequency range.

Seat is a member which forms part of a housing of the piezo electric actuator and its material is not particularly limited and may be a resin material or a metal material. In this regard for bonding piezo electric element with seat and for bonding seat with vibration film an epoxy based adhesive for example can be utilized. While an adhesive layer is not particularly limited in thickness the thickness is preferably for example 20 m or smaller because an excessively thick adhesive layer would absorb larger vibration energy possibly failing to provide a sufficient vibration amplitude.

As shown in piezo electric actuator is configured such that piezo electric element is fixed on the top surface of seat and seat is supported by supporting member through vibration film . In this regard piezo electric actuator differs from the conventional configuration see in which the seat is directly supported by the supporting member. According to the configuration of this embodiment since seat is supported through vibration film in this way a larger vibration amplitude can be produced as compared with the conventional configuration and moreover a vibration mode approaches to a piston type described later with reference to . In the following this will be described with reference to B together with a mechanism of generating vibrations of the piezo electric actuator.

First as a predetermined voltage electric field is applied to piezo electric element in a neutral state see in which no voltage is applied to the piezo electric element piezo electric element deforms in a direction in which its area expands as indicted by arrows p in . Here since the bottom surface main surface of piezo electric element is restrained by seat a difference in the amount of deformation occurs between the top surface and the bottom surface of piezo electric element due to this restraining effect resulting in a convex deformation mode as shown. In this deformation mode piezo electric element and seat as well as vibration film which supports seat are curved to be convex upward as shown in the figure.

Subsequently as the piezo electric element is applied with an electric field reverse to the above piezo electric element deforms at this time in a direction in which its area decreases as indicated by arrows q in . A difference in the amount of deformation occurs between the top surface and the bottom surface of piezo electric element due to the restraining effect by seat resulting in a concave deformation mode as shown. In this deformation mode contrary to the aforementioned the piezo electric element seat and vibration film are curved to be convex downward as shown in the figure.

Piezo electric actuator of this embodiment alternately repeats the convex type deformation mode and concave type deformation mode as mentioned above causing piezo electric element restraining member and vibration film to vibrate in the vertical direction. When the actuator of this embodiment is compared with the conventional actuator see they are common in that motions of piezo electric element are transmitted to seat and vibrations in the vertical direction are excited. However regarding the configuration they differ in that the actuator of this embodiment has seat and piezo electric element supported through vibration film and the following advantageous effects are produced due to this difference.

Specifically vibration film is more susceptible to deformation because it is made of a relatively lowly rigid material as compared with seat . Therefore according to this embodiment a larger vibration amplitude can be produced as compared with the conventional configuration in which the outer periphery of seat is directly supported by supporting member . Also in the configuration of this embodiment vibration film see is provided to extend in the horizontal direction i.e. in parallel with the main surfaces of piezo electric element . Consequently it is less prone to a problem of an increase in size of the entire actuator due to the addition of vibration film .

Also this embodiment employs circular piezo electric element . Since an energy efficiency of circular piezo electric element when it performs a radius extending motion is high as compared with a rectangular element this configuration can produce a larger driving force when the same voltage is applied. Then with such a large driving force propagated to the vibration film the amount of vibrations of the piezo electric actuator increases. Also in the case of the circular element since the distance from its center to the peripheral edge is uniform a stress generated when vibrations are propagated to a beam is uniformly distributed advantageously resulting in a higher energy efficiency and an increased amplitude as well. Also since piezo electric element seat and vibration film are concentrically arranged uneven vibrations and the like are less susceptible to occur.

Next a description will be given of the relationship between a vibration mode and the frequency characteristic of the piezo electric actuator. The utilization of a piezo electric actuator as an acoustic element per se has been disclosed in the aforementioned JP 61 168971 A JP 2000 140759 A JP 2001 17917 A and the like. However the acoustic elements in these publications mean to be a buzzer and a vibrator. When used only as a vibrator a sound pressure may simply be improved but when used as a speaker the vibration mode of the piezo electric actuator must be studied in consideration of even its frequency characteristic as well.

Next a description will be given of features of flexion type motions and piston type motions. A vibration mode of flexion type motions generated by the conventional piezo electric actuator presents a mountain shape in which the center of the piezo electric ceramics matches a maximum displacement inflection point. While a large amplitude can be produced at the center displacements relatively attenuate gradually at positions closer to the vicinity of the fixed end. On the other hand a vibration mode of piston motions presents a trapezoidal shape having maximum inflection point near the fixed end as shown in and features in that vibrations largely rises near the fixed end. In comparison of vibration displacement amounts in these two vibration modes the flexion type motions are superior to the piston type motions in the amount of maximum vibrations within a sound radiation plane whereas the piston type motions are superior to the flexion type motions in the amount of average vibrations within the sound radiation plane with a large amount of displacement at the fixed end.

In this regard since the sound pressure is usually defined by a volumetric displacement to a radiation plane the sound pressure is higher as the average vibration amount is larger so that the piston type vibration mode is preferably promoted for improving the sound pressure level. In this regard the piston type motion and flexion type motion can be defined by the proportion of the average displacement amount to the maximum displacement amount where the piston type mode is promoted as the proportion approaches to one in an equation expressed by average vibration amount maximum vibration amount described in detail in Evaluation of Embodiment 5 .

According to the configuration of this embodiment as shown in the area to which seat is adhered is an area corresponding to A and the outside thereof is a connection area A which is apparently less rigid i.e. more susceptible to deformation than area A. Accordingly since this connection area A presents relatively larger deformations the vibration mode can be brought closer to the piston type as a whole. Further the fact that area A around the area to which the seat is adhered is made of a less rigid material means that the resonant frequency of a vibration plate which refers to a laminate of the seat and vibration film becomes lower as compared with the conventional configuration in which seat is directly connected to the supporting member. Then a lower resonant frequency leads to improvements in the frequency characteristic of the acoustic element as described below.

In an acoustic element it is usually regarded relatively difficult to generate sufficiently large sound at frequency equal to or lower than resonant frequency f and for this reason configurations are often employed to utilize only a frequency band after resonant frequency f as reproducible sound. Specifically when resonant frequency f of a piezo electric actuator exists in a high frequency band for example 2 kHz stating extremely simply the acoustic element can generate sound only in a band equal to or higher than 2 kHz.

On the other hand a frequency band required to reproduce music by a portable telephone or the like is preferably from 1 k to 10 kHz. Thus a piezo electric actuator having resonant frequency f at 1 kHz or lower is suitable for portable telephones and the like and an actuator which is also advantageous in a reduction in size like this embodiment has a high utility value. However since the piezo electric actuator uses highly rigid ceramic as a piezo electric element the resonant frequency of a vibration section becomes higher and the piezo electric actuator has a nature of being unsuitable for generating low sound. In this regard it is contemplated to increase the element size thereby reducing apparent rigidity of the piezo electric element to lower the resonant frequency. However as previously described since the piezo electric actuators are often equipped in small electronic devices such as portable telephones by way of example it is preferable to configure to facilitate the generation of low sound without changing the element size from a viewpoint of preventing an increase in the size of the device as well.

Summarizing the foregoing in order to reproduce music in a wider frequency band in a portable telephone or the like it can be said that it is important to set resonant frequency f of the piezo electric actuator at a point lower than resonant frequency f. Then in order to more lower resonant frequency f it is effective to reduce the rigidity of the vibration plate.

According to the configuration of this embodiment since the member for connecting seat to supporting member is vibration film which is less rigid than the seat the resonant frequency is reduced as compared with the conventional configuration. As a result the piezo electric actuator of this embodiment can produce a sufficient vibration amplitude over a wide frequency range and can realize a good frequency characteristic when it is used as an acoustic element.

Other than the above the piezo electric actuator of this embodiment has the following advantages. First the vibration characteristic of the piezo electric actuator can be readily adjusted by changing the material characteristic and shape of seat and the material characteristic and shape of vibration film as appropriate. Particularly since the shape of the seat and the thickness of the vibration film can be adjusted without changing the size of a housing size of the supporting member the supporting member can be used as a common part which is advantageous in reducing the manufacturing cost as well.

Also conventionally a reduction in the resonant frequency of a piezo electric actuator has been supported by making a piezo electric element thinner whereas according to the present invention the resonant frequency can be reduced simply by adjusting the material of the vibration film and the spacing between the supporting member and the restraining member even if a relatively thick piezo electric element is used. Generally for manufacturing a thin piezo electric element a cost is relatively increased due to cracking during sintering and the like. On the other hand according to the present invention the manufacturing cost can be limited because such a thin piezo electric element need not be provided.

The piezo electric actuator according to the present invention can also be utilized as a sound source of an electronic device for example a portable telephone a notebook type personal computer a small gaming device or the like . Incidentally conventionally a piezo electric actuator which uses ceramics as a piezo electric element has an aspect that the piezo electric element is highly susceptible to damages when it is dropped. On the other hand the portable electronic device as mentioned above is often dropped by the user by mistake during use and from this fact the piezo electric actuator has been conventionally considered to be unsuitable for portable devices. However in the piezo electric actuator of the present invention since seat to which the piezo electric element is fixed and supporting member are supported through lowly rigid vibration film an impact can be absorbed by an attenuation effect of vibration film even if the piezo electric actuator is dropped thus making the piezo electric element less susceptible to damages. Accordingly the piezo electric actuator can be suitably used for portable electronic devices.

In the piezo electric actuator of the present invention a flection amount m of vibration film intervening section A between the outer periphery of the seat and the inner periphery of the supporting member can be calculated in the following manner. In this regard vibration film intervening section A between the outer periphery of the seat and the inner periphery of the supporting member i.e. vibration film intervening section A is an intervening site comprised of the vibration film positioned between outer periphery of seat and inter periphery of supporting member as shown in and flection amount m of this vibration film intervening section A is calculated from the following calculation equation 1 .

A description will be given of a method of calculating flection amount of vibration film intervening section A in the present invention. Calculation equation 1 described below is an equation applied to vibration film intervening section A which is in a cantilevered structure as shown in . Here the cantilevered structure is a structure in which one end of vibration film intervening section A is coupled to supporting member to form fixed end while the other end is free end as shown in . Then by applying defined load W to a leading end of this free end flection amount can be calculated.

Also in calculation equation 1 L is the length of vibration film intervening section A to the radial direction of piezo electric element h is the thickness of the vibration film and E is modulus of direct elasticity of the material of the vibration film see . Then in this embodiment load W was chosen to be 1 N N m and width b of beam shaped vibration film intervening section A to be 0.001 m for making the calculation.

In this regard the calculation of flection amount of vibration film intervening section A in the shape of the piezo electric actuator of the present invention is essentially made in consideration of an annular plane shape which has an opening as described later with reference to but in calculation equation 1 flection amount was calculated on the assumption that changes in the thickness the modulus of direct elasticity of the material of the vibration film and length L of vibration film intervening section A exponentially exerted influences while the influence due to a plane area was small so that an approximation could be made even when a plane shape was a rectangular shape and a rectangular shape with width b equal to 0.001 m was employed in this embodiment. 3 Equation 1 

L length m of the vibration film intervening section between the outer periphery of the seat and the inner periphery of the supporting member 

In the following flection amount of vibration film intervening section A is calculated in the shape shown in as an example. Substituting 0.001 m 1 mm into length L of vibration film intervening section A 4.0 10 N m into the modulus of direct elasticity of the vibration film material urethane 8 10 m 80 m into thickness h of the vibration film 0.001 m 1 mm into width b which is a defined value and 1 N into load W which is a defined value respectively flection amount is calculated to be 0.0195 m .

In the piezo electric actuator of this embodiment by making a selection such that flection amount m falls within a range of 0.001 to 5 a piston type vibration mode can be achieved. By making an adjustment such that flection amount of vibration film intervening section A which is a node of vibrations falls within a predetermined range a stress concentrates on a joint of the outer periphery of a spring and the vibration film or a spring seat when vibrations occur resulting in a maximum inflection point position see .

Since the maximum inflection point is formed near the fixed end in this way the piston type vibration mode is promoted. On the other hand when flection amount is smaller than 0.001 a stress concentrates on the outer periphery of supporting member and the center of the piezo electric ceramics the maximum inflection point exists at the center of the ceramics resulting in a flexion type vibration mode. On the other hand when flection amount is larger than five a stress concentrates on the periphery of seat when vibrations occur but since the rigidity of the vibration film is low the generated amount propagated to the vibration film attenuates a sufficient vibration displacement cannot be produced and its vibration mode is a free end type flexion motion which presents flexion motions only near the piezo electric ceramic.

As described above by adjusting flection amount of vibration film intervening section A to fall within a predetermined range the piston type motion mode is promoted. As compared with a conventional piezo electric actuator having a mountain shaped motion mode an average vibration amount is high within a sound radiation plane and therefore a sound pressure level is high so that it is possible to realize as a piezo electric actuator for an acoustic element.

The piezo electric actuator of the present invention is not limited to those shown in the foregoing embodiments but may have a configuration as shown in B. is an exploded perspective view showing the configuration of a piezo electric actuator of a second embodiment and is a vertical sectional view of the piezo electric actuator.

Piezo electric actuator of employs vibration film which is formed with opening at the center thereof. The rest of the configuration is similar to the first embodiment. Opening is circular and is formed to be concentric with piezo electric element and seat . Since opening is formed seat is supported only around the outer periphery of its back surface bottom surface as shown in the figure by vibration film . Stated another way the back surface of seat has an area corresponding to opening in an exposed state.

Even piezo electric actuator of this embodiment configured as described above perform vibration operations in a manner similar to the aforementioned embodiments using piezo electric element as a driving source. Here seat is configured to be supported only around the outer periphery thereof and the area of opening is not restrained by vibration film so that seat is more prone to flexion and deformation resulting in a further increase in the vibration amplitude of the actuator. Also the fact that an apparent rigidity of the vibration plate which refers to a laminate of the seat and vibration film becomes lower in this way means that the resonant frequency of the actuator becomes lower which is preferable because the frequency characteristic of the acoustic element is improved.

In view of advantageous effects produced by opening as described above it can be said that as the area of opening is larger seat is more prone to flexion and deformation leading to a lower resonant frequency of the actuator. In this regard the shape of opening is not limited to the circular shape but may be a rectangular or a polygonal shape. Also instead of a single opening as in the foregoing embodiment a plurality of openings may be provided.

The actuator of the present invention is not limited to those shown in the aforementioned embodiment but may have a configuration as shown in . Piezo electric actuator shown in employs piezo electric element formed in a square shape. The rest of the configuration is similar to the first embodiment. Piezo electric element is modified only in the contour shape of piezo electric element in the first embodiment and its material and basic structure are similar to the first embodiment. For example piezo electric element is similar to the aforementioned embodiment in that an upper electrode layer and a lower electrode layer are formed on the top and bottom surfaces of a piezo electric plate respectively.

In this way in the present invention the piezo electric element is not particularly limited in the contour shape and may be circular see or rectangular see . Further the piezo electric element may be oval or polygonal. Particularly a square element is highly symmetric like a circular piezo electric element and therefore provides a high energy efficiency when it performs expansion contraction motions radially expanding motions so that a larger driving force can be produced as compared with a rectangular element. Then with such a large driving force a sufficient vibration amplitude can be produced. Also the rectangular element is advantageous in view of the manufacturing cost because it presents a higher yield rate and is easier to fabricate as compared with a circular element.

The piezo electric actuator of the present invention is not limited to those shown in the aforementioned embodiments but may further have a configuration as shown in . is a plan view showing the configuration of a piezo electric actuator of a fourth embodiment and is a plan view showing a seat piece for use in the piezo electric actuator.

As shown in in piezo electric actuator A a plurality of beams are formed on the outer peripheral side of seat A. The rest of the configuration is similar to the first embodiment. A plurality of beams are formed along the outer periphery edge of body section which has a circular contour. All beams are in the same shape and radially extend from the center of body section outward in the radial direction.

Seat A is a single member which has body section integrated with beams . Though the illustration is omitted beams extend straightly within the same plane as body section . The material of seat A is the same as that of the first embodiment and the contour shape of body section is the same as the contour shape of piezo electric element . A lower electrode layer of piezo electric element is bonded on the top surface of body section whereby piezo electric element is restrained by seat A.

The number of beams is not particularly limited. Piezo electric actuator B shown in is formed with four beams while actuator C shown in is formed with 12 beams . In any of piezo electric actuators A C beams are formed at equal intervals which is intended to define the same spacing between the beams with respect to the circumferential direction . Also each beam may have constant beam width W as shown in and the like or may be tapered such that beam width W becomes gradually smaller toward the leading end of the beam.

Even piezo electric actuators A C comprising beams as described above are similar to the first embodiment in their operation principle. Specifically piezo electric element performs expansion contraction motions as an AC electric field is applied to the upper electrode layer and lower electrode layer of piezo electric element . In accordance with the direction of the electric field the expansion contraction motions by piezo electric element are alternately repeated to excite vibrations due to a restraining effect of seat A. In this event body section vibrates in the vertical direction and its motions are transmitted to a plurality of beams . Since beams do not have their leading ends directly connected to supporting member but is connected thereto through vibration film an amplitude increasing effect by vibration film is expected as is the case with the first embodiment.

Particularly in a region near beam an apparent rigidity of seat A is reduced as compared with the seat which is not formed with a beam which has an outer diameter defined by a circle indicated by broken line . Accordingly the outer periphery of the seat is more susceptible to deformation and vibrations of the vibration film can be more induced so that the vibration amplitude of the piezo electric actuator is more increased. In the actuator of this embodiment since deformations of the beams are relatively large while deformations of the piezo electric body supporting section are relatively small the piston type vibration mode is more likely to occur as shown in rather than the vibration mode as shown in . For this reason the piezo electric element can be largely reciprocally moved in the vertical direction without giving large deformations or distortions to the piezo electric body.

Alternatively in the configuration described above beams and body section can be provided as separate members and further these two members may be of the same material or of different materials. Also when seat A is formed from a single sheet shaped member it may be stamped out by pressing.

Further the piezo electric actuator of the present invention is not limited to those shown in the aforementioned embodiments but may have a configuration as shown in . In this regard omits the illustration of piezo electric element . Piezo electric actuator shown in employs square supporting member and accordingly vibration film also has a rectangular contour shape. The rest of the configuration is similar to the first embodiment.

Even if vibration film is rectangular in this way the advantageous effects of the present invention resulting from seat connected to supporting member through vibration film can be produced in a similar manner to the foregoing. With the use of rectangular vibration film an area for disposing the piezo electric actuator can be effectively utilized for the following reasons. For example consider circular vibration film as indicated by a broken line in and vibration film of this embodiment. The sizes of vibration films are in a relationship that the contour of vibration film is inscribed in the contour of vibration film .

When a piezo electric actuator is placed in an electronic device or the like a rectangular area is often provided in general as a placement space in the electronic device. In this event a placement space required in the electronic device is substantially the same whether a circularly contoured actuator having vibration film is utilized or a rectangularly contoured actuator having vibration film is utilized.

In view of this point of the two piezo electric actuators which use the same placement space piezo electric actuator of this embodiment which can increase the area of vibration film is more advantageous in that it can realize a higher sound pressure level. In this regard when rectangular vibration film is compared with circular vibration film vibration film has a wider area of the vibration film by four areas indicated by shading and an improved sound pressure level is expected in correspondence to this increase.

The piezo electric actuator of the present invention is not limited to those shown in the aforementioned embodiments but may have a configuration as shown in . Piezo electric actuator shown in employs vibration film including a curved section . The rest of the configuration is similar to the first embodiment.

Vibration film comprises flat central section for supporting the back surface of seat and curved section formed outside of central section . Though the illustration is omitted the contour shape of central section when viewed from above is circular while the contour shape of curved section is annular concentric with central section

With curved section formed in this way the stroke of the vibration film in connection area A is increased thereby reducing the rigidity of the vibration film. As a result the vibration film is more susceptible to deformation the resonant frequency is reduced and a larger vibration amplitude can be produced.

The above mentioned curved section is intended to be a structure with part of the vibration film which is three dimensionally curved. Accordingly the curved section includes for example a cross sectional structure in which waveforms continue in addition to semi circular curved section in cross section as shown in .

While the third to sixth embodiments have employed vibration films which are not formed with an opening this is not a limitation. For example vibration film see may be formed with an opening as described in the second embodiment. Also components of each embodiment including a seventh embodiment below may be combined with one another as appropriate as a matter of course.

While the foregoing description has been given of an exemplary configuration in which piezo electric element is fixed on one surface of the seat the piezo electric actuator of the present invention is not so limited. The piezo electric actuator of the present invention may be equipped with bimorph type piezo electric element as shown in .

Bimorph type piezo electric element comprises piezo electric element A and piezo electric element B adhered on both surfaces of seat similar to that of the first embodiment respectively. Piezo electric element thus configured alternates such operations as one piezo electric element A expands while the other piezo electric element B contracts and the other piezo electric element B expands while the one piezo electric element contracts. According to such a configuration a larger driving force can be produced as compared with a one sheet type piezo electric element as described above.

In bimorph type piezo electric element when one of piezo electric element A B expands while the other contracts in other words when it is comprised of two elements which perform reverse operations to each other the polarization direction of each piezo electric element is not particularly limited. For example the polarization directions of both the piezo electric elements may be arranged in the same direction for example upward as shown in the figure .

In this regard when a bimorph type element is unitized vibration film formed with an opening may be employed as shown in . Alternatively vibration film without an opening may be employed where piezo electric element B may be adhered on the opposite side to piezo electric element A with the vibration film interposed therebetween see Example 5 later described .

Further describing the piezo electric element the piezo electric element may be in a laminate structure per se. This is described with reference to . Piezo electric element shown in is in a multi layered structure which comprises piezo electric plates made of a piezo electric material laminated in five layers. Electrode layers conductive layers are formed one between the piezo electric plates. The polarization direction of each piezo electric plate is opposite to one another and the orientation of electric field is also configured to be alternately opposite. According to piezo electric element in such a laminate structure since a high electric field strength is generated between the electrode layers a driving force of the overall piezo electric element is improved by the number of laminated piezo electric plates. Piezo electric element shown in can be utilized for example instead of piezo electric element shown in .

Characteristic evaluations of the piezo electric actuator of the present invention were made with the following Examples and Comparative Examples 1 4 to evaluate the effects of the present invention. Evaluated items are shown below.

 Evaluation 1 Measurement of Resonant Frequency Resonant frequency was measured when an AC voltage of 1 V was applied.

 Evaluation 2 Maximum vibration speed amplitude Maximum vibration speed amplitude Vmax see B was measured when an AC voltage of 1 V was applied during resonance.

 Evaluation 3 Average vibration speed amplitude Vibration speed amplitudes were measured at measuring points uniformly distributed in the longitudinal direction of the piezo electric elements as shown in and an average value of these were calculated. Evaluation 4 Calculation of flection amount of the vibration film intervening section. Flection amount was calculated from the following equation. In the following equation the calculation is made with a load chosen to be 1 N N m and width b to be 0.001 m Equation 2 see the second embodiment for details of the calculation method . 3 Equation 1 

L Length m of Vibration Film Intervening Section between Outer Periphery of Seat and Inner Periphery of Supporting Member

 Evaluation 5 Vibration Mode As shown in a vibration speed ratio is defined by average vibration speed amplitude Vm divided by maximum speed amplitude Vmax and the vibration mode was discriminated on the basis of the value of this vibration speed ratio. Specifically from the fact that an flexion motion mountain shaped motion results as shown in when the vibration speed ratio is small whereas a reciprocation piston type motion results as shown in when the vibration speed ratio is large a threshold was set to vibration speed ratio 0.8 in this example where an flexion motion was discriminated when the vibration speed ratio was smaller than 0.8 while a piston type motion was discriminated when equal to or larger than 0.8. Evaluation 6 Measurement of Sound Pressure Level A sound pressure level was measured by a microphone disposed at a position a predetermined distance away from the element when an AC voltage of 1 V was applied. This predetermined distance is 10 cm unless otherwise noted. Evaluation 7 Drop and Impact Test A portable telephone equipped with the piezo electric actuator was naturally dropped five times vertically from above 50 cm to make a drop impact stability test. Specifically destructions such as crack and the like were visually confirmed after the drop and impact test and a sound pressure characteristic was further measured after the test. As a result a sound pressure level difference which refers to the difference between the sound pressure level before the test and the sound pressure level after the test equal to or less than 3 dB was qualified and that equal to or more than 3 dB was disqualified X .

In this regard the structure shape material and the like of the piezo electric actuator according to each example described below and results of the evaluations are shown in Table 1 and Table 2.

As Example 1 piezo electric actuator of the first embodiment see as well was fabricated with piezo electric element adhered on the top surface of the seat as shown in . Though not an essential difference vibration film is adhered on the bottom surface of supporting member in this example.

Piezo Electric Element The upper electrode layer and lower electrode layer of 8 m thick were formed respectively on both surface of a piezo electric plate with the outer Diameter 16 mm and the thickness 50 m 0.05 mm .

Vibration Film A film made of urethane with the outer diameter 22 mm and the thickness 80 m was used.

Supporting Member SUS304 with the outer diameter 22 mm the inner diameter of a frame extracted section 21 mm and the thickness 1.5 mm was used.

Piezo electric element seat vibration film and supporting member were placed in a concentric arrangement. Lead zirconate titanate based ceramic was used for the piezo electric plate while a silver palladium alloy weight ratio is 70 30 was used for the electrode layers. This piezo electric element was manufactured by a green sheet method where the piezo electric plate was sintered at 1100 C. for two hours in the atmosphere and subsequently the piezo electric material layer was polarized. The adhesion of piezo electric element with seat the adhesion of seat with vibration film and the adhesion of supporting member with vibration film were all made using an epoxy based adhesive.

As is apparent from the foregoing results according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example the resonant frequency is as low as 1 kHz and the vibration amplitude is large so that it was demonstrated that a piston type vibration mode was taken. Also the piezo electric actuator thickness of supporting member was approximately 1.5 mm thick and was sufficiently reduced in thickness.

For reference in this Example thickness t of the piezo electric element is equal to 50 m thickness t of the seat is equal to 30 m so that their ratio is calculated to be t t 0.6. However this ratio t t is not so limited but may be equal to or larger than 0.2 and less than 2.0 0.2 t t

As Comparative Example 1 a conventional piezo electric actuator was fabricated with the outer periphery of a seat directly bonded to a supporting member as shown in . This piezo electric actuator has a similar configuration to that shown in . In this regard piezo electric element seat and supporting member are made of the same materials as piezo electric element seat and supporting member of the aforementioned Example 1.

The specific configuration of each component is as follows. Piezo Electric Element Same as Piezo Electric Element of Example 1

As Example 2 piezo electric actuator of the second embodiment type see as well was fabricated as shown in . In piezo electric actuator of this Example vibration film is formed with opening

Vibration Film Outer Diameter 21 mm and Inner Diameter diameter of the opening 17 mm the thickness and material are the same as those of vibration film of Example 1 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is again lower than Example 1 and the vibration amplitude is larger.

As Example 3 the piezo electric actuator of the fourth embodiment type see as well was fabricated as shown in . Piezo electric actuator A of this Example has eight beams provided on seat A.

Beams eight beams radially arranged at equal intervals where each beam has a beam width of 2 mm fixed width and a length of 1 mm.

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is again lower than Example 1 and the vibration amplitude is larger.

As Example 4 a piezo electric actuator was fabricated as shown in . Piezo electric actuator D of this Example was configured as an exemplary modification to the aforementioned Example 3 and comprises vibration film formed with opening instead of vibration film . The rest of the configuration is the same as the third example.

Vibration Film Outer Diameter 22 mm and Inner Diameter diameter of the opening 15 mm the thickness and material are the same as those of vibration film of Example 1 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is again lower than Example 3 and the vibration amplitude is larger.

As Example 5 bimorph type piezo electric actuator C was fabricated as shown in . Piezo electric actuator C of this Example is modified to a bimorph type by disposing additional piezo electric element B on the back surface of vibration film of piezo electric actuator see of Example 1. Specifically piezo electric element B is attached to the bottom side of seat with vibration film interposed therebetween as shown.

Piezo Electric Element B The basic configuration is the same as piezo electric element however configured to perform reverse operations to piezo electric element A 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is lower and the vibration amplitude is larger than Example 1.

As Example 6 the piezo electric actuator of the seventh embodiment type see as well was fabricated as shown in . In piezo electric actuator A of this Example an opening is formed through the vibration film and piezo electric elements A B are adhered directly to both surfaces of seat .

Piezo Electric Element B The basic configuration is the same as piezo electric element however configured to perform reverse operations to piezo electric element A 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is lower and the vibration amplitude is larger than Example 1.

As Example 7 piezo electric actuator B was fabricated as shown in . In piezo electric actuator B of this Example the seat of piezo electric actuator A of the aforementioned Example 6 was replaced with one comprising beams. Specifically additional piezo electric element B was adhered on the back surface of seat A of actuator D shown in Example 4 see to provide piezo electric element .

Piezo Electric Element B The basic configuration is the same as piezo electric element however configured to perform reverse operations to piezo electric element A 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is lower and the vibration amplitude is larger than Example 1.

As Example 8 the piezo electric actuator of the sixth embodiment type see as well was fabricated as shown in . Piezo electric actuator of this Example changed the shape of the vibration film of the piezo electric actuator of Example 1. Specifically curved section was provided in the gap between the outer periphery of the seat and the inner periphery of the supporting member. The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 1.

Vibration Film the outer diameter 21 mm the inner diameter of a frame extracted section 17 mm the thickness and material are the same as film of Example 1 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is further lower than Example 1 and the vibration amplitude is larger.

A piezo electric actuator not shown was fabricated in the following manner as Example 9. This piezo electric actuator is reduced in size of seat of piezo electric actuator of Example 1 though not shown this is called seat for distinction . The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 1. With the reduced size of the seat the gap distance between the supporting member and the restraining member is longer as compared with Example 1.

As is apparent from the foregoing like this Example the resonant frequency can be adjusted by changing the gap distance between the supporting member and the restraining member and it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is further lower than Example 1 and the vibration amplitude is larger.

A piezo electric actuator was fabricated as Example 10 as shown in . In piezo electric actuator B of this Example the number of beams was changed from eight to four on the seat of Example 3. The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 3.

Beams Four beams radially arranged at equal intervals the shape of the beams themselves is the same as Example 3 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is lower and the vibration amplitude is larger.

A piezo electric actuator was fabricated as Example 11 as shown in . In piezo electric actuator C of this Example the number of beams was changed from eight to 12 on the seat of Example 3. The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 3.

Beams 12 beams radially arranged at equal intervals the shape of the beams themselves is the same as Example 3 

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is lower and the vibration amplitude is larger.

As Example 12 a piezo electric actuator not shown was fabricated in the following manner. In this piezo electric actuator the material of vibration film was changed from urethane to PET in piezo electric actuator of Example 1. The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 1.

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is low and the vibration amplitude is large in a similar degree to Example 1.

As Example 13 a piezo electric actuator not shown was fabricated in the following manner. In this piezo electric actuator the material of seat of piezo electric actuator was changed in Example 1 and a PET film was used for vibration film . The rest of the configuration is the same as the piezo electric actuator of Example 1.

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is low and the vibration amplitude is large in a similar degree to Example 1.

As Comparative Example 2 piezo electric actuator was fabricated as shown in . This piezo electric actuator comprises vibration film same as film in Example 1 on the back surface of seat of the actuator of Comparative Example 1 see . Accordingly the configuration except for vibration film is completely the same as Comparative Example.

Next a description will be given of an example in which an acoustic element is equipped in a portable telephone with reference to Examples 14 16 and Comparative Example 3.

Portable telephone as shown in was provided as Example 14 and piezo electric actuator of Example 1 see was equipped in this housing. Specifically piezo electric actuator was adhered on the inner surface of the housing of speaker section of the portable telephone.

 Evaluation The sound pressure level and frequency characteristic were measured by a microphone disposed at a position 10 cm away from the element. Also a drop and impact test was conducted.

Drop and Impact Test No crack appeared in the piezo electric element even after five drops. After the test the sound pressure level was measured to be 84 dB.

As Example 15 piezo electric actuator A of Example 3 see was equipped in portable telephone in a manner similar to the foregoing embodiment. The evaluations are similar to the foregoing embodiment.

Drop and Impact Test No crack appeared in the piezo electric element even after five drops. After the test the sound pressure level was measured to be 84 dB.

As Comparative Example 3 piezo electric actuator of Comparative Example 2 see was equipped in portable telephone in a manner similar to the foregoing embodiment.

 Evaluation The sound pressure level and frequency characteristic were measured by a microphone disposed at a position 10 cm away from the element. Also a drop and impact test was conducted.

Drop and Impact Test A crack appeared in the piezo electric element after two drops and at this time the sound pressure level was measured to be 50 dB or lower.

As Comparative Example 4 an electromagnetic acoustic element was fabricated as shown in . The acoustic element shown in comprises permanent magnet voice coil and vibration plate where a magnetic force is generated by applying a current to the voice coil through electric terminal and sound is generated by causing vibration plate to repeat absorption and repulsion with the generated magnetic force. The outer shape of this acoustic element is a circular shape with an outer shape equal to 20 mm and a thickness equal to 4.0 mm.

 Evaluation For the acoustic element thus configured the sound pressure level and frequency characteristic were measured by a microphone disposed at a position 30 cm away from the element.

A notebook type personal computer not shown equipped with the piezo electric actuator of Example 1 was fabricated as Example 16. Specifically as is the case with the portable telephone piezo electric actuator was adhered on the inner surface of the housing of the personal computer.

 Evaluation the sound pressure level and frequency characteristic were measured by a microphone disposed at a position 30 cm away from the element. A drop and impact test was also conducted.

Drop and Impact Test No crack appeared in the piezo electric element even after five drops. After the test the sound pressure level was measured to be 89 dB.

A piezo electric actuator as shown below was fabricated as Example 17. This piezo electric actuator was reduced in size of piezo electric actuator of Example 1.

Piezo Electric Element Outer Diameter 12 mm reduced by 4 mm and the thickness and material are the same as Example 1.

Vibration Film Outer Diameter 18 mm reduced by 4 mm and the thickness and material are the same as Example 1.

Supporting Member Diameter 18 mm reduced by 4 mm Inner Diameter 16 mm and the thickness and material are the same as Example 1.

As is apparent from the foregoing according to the piezo electric actuator of this Example it was demonstrated that the resonant frequency is low and the vibration amplitude is large in a similar degree to Example 1.

The acoustic elements which employed the piezo electric actuators of Examples 1 13 exhibited frequency characteristics close to the frequency characteristic of Comparative Example 4 electromagnetic actuator . On the other hand in the conventional piezo electric actuator of Comparative. Example 3 fierce jaggedness appeared on the graph of the frequency characteristic. It was demonstrated also from this aspect that the frequency characteristic of the acoustic element is improved according to the present invention. Particularly in any of the Examples resonant frequency f is lower than resonant frequency f of Comparative Examples and from this fact it was demonstrated that the frequency bandwidth of the acoustic element according to the present invention expanded. Also in Examples 14 15 which were implemented in portable telephones the resonant frequency was lower and the sound pressure level was also improved as compared with Comparative Example 3.

While advantageous effects of the present invention have been verified by changing the shape material and the like of each member as Example 1 Example 17 a description will now be given of the result of changing the shape of only one member from among piezo electric element seat and vibration film in steps. First as Example 18 the thickness of vibration film film was changed in various manners while the thicknesses of piezo electric element and seat remained unchanged. In this regard structural components except for vibration film are the same as those of Example 1 and evaluation conditions are also the same as Example 1.

Piezo Electric Element Same as Example 1 an upper electrode layer and a lower electrode layer of 8 m thick were formed respectively on both surfaces of a piezo electric plate of 50 m thick .

Vibration Film Urethane was used in a similar manner to Example 1 and the thickness was changed from 30 m to 200 m in various manners.

The results of resonant frequency f and sound pressure level are shown in Table 3 when the thickness of vibration film was changed.

As can be seen from the results of Table 3 for example a when an actuator is designed to have a resonant frequency at approximately 1 kHz including 1015 Hz or lower in favor of reproduction in a low sound region conditions as shown in No. A 1 A 4 in the table may be utilized. The ratio of vibration film thickness t to seat thickness t is shown as the basis in the following manner.

Specifically thickness t of the film may be equal to or smaller than 110 m 30 m 110 m with respect to seat thickness t fixed to 30 m and stated another way the value of vibration film thickness t seat thickness t may be equal to or smaller than 110 m 30 m 3.67 or smaller.

Alternatively when an actuator is designed to provide a sound pressure level at 80 dB or higher in favor of b sound pressure conditions as shown in A 2 A 5 may be utilized. Showing the ratio of vibration film thickness t to seat thickness t as the basis the value of vibration film thickness t seat thickness t may exit within a range of 2.0 to 5.33.

Further as c a combination of the aforementioned a and b when an actuator is designed to have a resonant frequency at approximately 1 kHz or lower and provide a sound pressure level of 80 dB or lower conditions as shown in No. A 2 A 4 may be utilized. In other words the value of vibration film thickness t seat thickness t may exist within a range of 2.0 to 3.67.

Next as Example 19 a verification is made on circular seat the outer diameter of which is solely changed in various manners while fixing the contour shape of vibration film . In this Example only the contour shape of seat is changed while structural components except for seat are the same as those of Example 1 and evaluation conditions are the same as Example 1 as well. As shown in X designates the distance between the outer periphery of piezo electric element and the outer periphery of seat and X designates the distance between the outer periphery of seat and the outer periphery of film the same as the inner periphery of supporting member .

Table 4 shows the results of resonant frequency f and sound pressure level when the contour shape of seat was changed little by little.

As can be seen from the result of Table 4 for example a when an actuator is designed to have a resonant frequency at approximately 1 kHz including 1001 Hz or lower in favor of reproduction in a low sound region conditions as shown in No. B 3 B 8 in the table may be utilized. On the other hand b when one wants to design an actuator with 80 dB or more in favor of the sound pressure level conditions as shown in No. B 2 B 7 in the table may be utilized.

As Example 20 a verification is made on the relationship between a flection amount of vibration film intervening section A and acoustic characteristic. In the following Examples 20a 20c the material of the vibration film the length of vibration film intervening section A and the thickness of the vibration film were solely changed to verify the relationship between the flection amount of vibration film intervening section A and the motion mode.

Example 20a only changes the material of the vibration film and is the same as Example 2 except for the material of the vibration film and evaluation conditions are also the same as Example 2.

Table 5 shows the relationship between the flection amount and the vibration mode as well as the result of resonant frequency F and sound pressure level when the material of the vibration film time was changed.

Embodiment 20b changed the outer diameters of supporting member and circular seat and changed length L of vibration film intervening section A. In this Example length L of vibration intervening section A was changed and structural components except for seat and vibration are the same as those of Example 2 and evaluation conditions are also the same as Example 2. As shown in distance X between the outer periphery of piezo electric element and the outer periphery of seat was adjusted and length L of vibration film intervening section A was changed.

Seat The outer diameter was changed such that vibration film intervening section A is in a range of 0.05 mm to 2.0 mm.

Table 6 shows the results of the flection amount 6 vibration mode and resonant frequency f and sound pressure level when length L of vibration film intervening section A was changed.

This Example 20c changed only the thickness of the vibration film. In this Example the thickness of the vibration film alone was changed and structural components are the same as those of Example 2 except for the vibration film and evaluation conditions are also the same as Example 2.

Vibration Film The thickness of the vibration film was changed such that the thickness is in a range of 5 m to 1 mm. Same as Example 2 Outer Diameter 21 mm 

Table 7 shows the results of the flection amount vibration mode and resonant frequency f and sound pressure level when the thickness of the vibration film was changed.

As described above in the piezo electric actuator according to the present invention the motion mode can be adjusted to the piston type by adjusting flection amount of vibration film intervening section A making it possible to realize a good acoustic characteristic. Further through the adjustment of flection amount the resonant frequency and sound pressure level can be adjusted to desired values.

As can be seen from the results of Table 6 for making the vibration mode of the piezo electric actuator into the piston motion type flection amount of vibration film intervening section A may be adjusted to be equal to or smaller than 0.0025. For example a when an actuator is designed to have a resonant frequency of approximately 1 kHz including 1001 Hz or lower in favor of reproduction in a low sound region conditions as shown in No. D 5 D 6 in the table may be utilized. b On the other hand when one wants to design an actuator with 80 dB or more in favor of the sound pressure level conditions as shown in No. D 3 D 6 in the table may be utilized.

As can be seen from the results of Table 7 for example a when an actuator is designed to have a resonant frequency of approximately 1 kHz including 1001 Hz or lower in favor of reproduction in a low sound region conditions as shown in No. E 3 E 7 in the table may be utilized. b On the other hand when one wants to design an actuator with 80 dB or more in favor of the sound pressure level conditions as shown in No. E 3 B 9 in the table may be utilized.

Summarizing the results of the aforementioned Tables 5 7 the vibration mode can be set to the piston type by adjusting flection amount of vibration film intervening section A in a range of predetermined values 0.001 to 5 making it possible to achieve a good acoustic characteristic with a high sound pressure level. Also through the adjustment of flection amount the resonant frequency can be adjusted. In this way the ability to adjust the resonant frequency and sound pressure characteristic by controlling flection amount 

