---

title: System and method for website experimentation
abstract: A data processing system comprises web page generation logic and website experimentation logic. The web page generation logic is configured to generate web pages to be provided to visitors of a website. The website experimentation logic is coupled to the web page generation logic. The website experimentation logic is configured to detect a change in the manner in which the web page generation logic generates one or note of the web pages and to assess how the change impacts visitor interactions with the website.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08166155&OS=08166155&RS=08166155
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08166155
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060314
---
It is often desirable to configure a website to best meet the needs of visitors of the website. Many visitors however are not interested in taking the time to provide feedback concerning a website. Accordingly experimentation tools have been developed to test the popularity of features to test how visitors react to certain features and to otherwise track visitor interaction with a website in order to obtain feedback which may be used to modify the website to improve the service provided to visitors.

A situation that may arise in the context of website experimentation is that a given website may be constantly changing. Features available on the website at one point in time may not be available at another point in time. Such changes may result from for example service interruptions or failures changes in the program logic that supports hosting of the website the operation of system optimization algorithms changes in advertising campaigns and or other random or pseudo random disturbances in the operation of the website. A website that is constantly changing is often seen as posing a problem for website experiments. That is to the extent that such changes are constantly occurring in the way the website is presented to visitors it is considered more difficult to conduct carefully planned tests over an extended period of time.

An ongoing need exists for systems and methods that may be used to perform website experimentation. It will be appreciated that while the teachings herein describe certain features and advantages that may be achieved the teachings herein may be used to implement systems and methods that do not necessarily achieve any of these features or advantages but rather achieve other features and advantages.

One embodiment relates to a computer implemented data processing system comprising web page generation logic and website experimentation logic. The web page generation logic is configured to generate web pages to be provided to visitors of a website. The website experimentation logic is coupled to the web page generation logic. The website experimentation logic is configured to detect a random or pseudo random change in the manner in which the web page generation logic generates one or more of the web pages and to assess how the change impacts visitor interactions with the website.

Another embodiment relates to a computer implemented data processing method comprising detecting a change in the presentation of one or more web pages to visitors of a website. Responsive to the detecting step how the change impacts visitor interactions with the website is assessed.

Another embodiment relates to a data processing method for use in a computer implemented service framework architecture comprising services that respond to service requests. The method comprises receiving first and second assessments of a service. The service provides information to be used in generating one or more web pages. The first assessment comprises an assessment of a relative state of health of the service. The second assessment comprises an assessment of a relative importance of the service to a task being performed and is provided based on importance ranking information. Access to the service is mediated according to the first and second assessments. The method further comprises obtaining feedback regarding how the manner in which access to the service is mediated impacts visitor interactions with the website and updating the importance ranking information based on the feedback.

Referring now to a data processing system according to an exemplary embodiment is shown. The data processing system comprises visitor computers website computers and a website experimentation tool . The website experimentation tool further includes data collection analysis computers and a computer with a website experimentation interface .

The visitor computers may be used by visitors to access one or more websites hosted by the website computers . The visitor computers may comprise personal computers handheld wireless devices e.g. personal digital assistants mobile phones portable music players and so on television set top boxes and other types of computers that may be used by visitors to access websites. The computers may access the website computers by way of a communication network such as the Internet.

The website computers may comprise one or more computers e.g. servers that host the website. For example the website computers may publish web pages to visitors of the websites. The website may for example be an interactive commerce website. It is assumed that the exact nature and content of the web pages published by the website computers may be constantly changing over time e.g. due to service failures due to changes in the program logic that supports hosting of the website due to the operation of system optimization algorithms due to changing advertising campaigns and or due to other random or pseudo random disturbances in the operation of the website.

The website experimentation tool comprises data collection analysis computers which are configured to collect sort process and index data generated by the website computers concerning operation of the website. In an exemplary embodiment the data collection analysis computers may be implemented in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Ser. No. 11 375 636 entitled Method and System for Collecting and Analyzing Time Series Data filed concurrently herewith the Ser. No. 11 375 636 application hereby incorporated by reference. In such an embodiment the data collection analysis computers of the present application may correspond to what is designated as the data collection analysis computers of the Ser. No. 11 375 636 application. Further the website computers of the present application may correspond to what is designated as the data source computers of the Ser. No. 11 375 636 application.

In an exemplary embodiment and in accordance with the teachings of the aforementioned Ser. No. 11 375 636 application the data collection analysis computers may receive one or more data messages from the website computers each time a web page is published to a visitor. For example a log record e.g. a querylog record may be sent to the data collection analysis computers which comprises information concerning the web page published to the visitor. The log record may for example contain enough information for the page to be identically recreated along with a time stamp indicating the time the page was published for the visitor. Any additional information that is desired to be collected may also be included in the log record such as the amount of time taken to produce the page the services that were called during production of the page and so on. To generate such log records the program logic for the website computers may include log record statements which cause specified data to be saved in a log record file and transmitted to the data collection analysis computers . The data collected from the website computers may be stored in a data repository .

As will be appreciated to the extent that the website computers are generating log records in connection with each web page published and to the extent that the number of computers is large the rate of the data that is generated by the website computers may be large. As described in greater detail in the Ser. No. 11 375 636 application the data collection analysis computers may be configured to collect sort process and index this data substantially in real time as it received from the website computers . For example the data collection analysis computers may comprise a plurality of nodes e.g. implemented on different servers and a plurality of partitions owned by the plurality of nodes. The plurality of partitions may comprise processes configured to receive data messages from the website computers and to process the data messages to produce result outputs for the website experiments. The plurality of partitions may be configured to permit each of the data messages from the website computers to be received at an arbitrary one of the nodes and to forward the data message to one or more other nodes responsible for participating in producing the results.

The website experimentation tool also comprises website experimentation interface which is provided on a computer and which may be used to access the results of website experiments. In the context of a system in which the data collection analysis computers are implemented in accordance with the teachings of the aforementioned Ser. No. 11 375 636 application the website experimentation interface may be provided on one of the user computers of the aforementioned Ser. No. 11 375 636 application. The website experimentation interface may be used by users e.g. human users such as website developers data analysis computers and or other users to access the outputs of the data collection analysis computers . For example the website experimentation interface may be used to view a notification that a certain result has been detected in the context of a website experiment along with the results of the experiment. The website experimentation interface may also perform additional manual and or automated analysis of the outputs to generate additional data notifications and so on. The website experimentation interface may also be used to modify configuration settings of the website computers to update the presentation of web pages responsive to results of the website experiments.

Although the computers and are shown as being separate and serving separate functions it will be understood that the same physical computer may serve multiple functions within the system . For example a given server may be running a process that supports the data collection analysis function described as being performed by the computers and may simultaneously be running another process that supports other user analysis functions described as being performed by the computers . Likewise although the computer which includes the website experimentation interface is shown as being separate from the data collection analysis computers it will be understood that the same physical computer may be used in connection with both functions.

Referring now also to is a flowchart of a website experimentation process that may be implemented by the data processing system of . In an exemplary embodiment the data processing system may be configured to automatically conduct website experiments responsive to changes in the presentation of the website. Such website experiments may be unplanned and may be triggered in response to such changes being detected. Each website experiment may be configured to assess the impact of a given change on visitor interactions with the website and thereby to assess any change in value delivered to visitors of the website which result from the change in the presentation of the website. Such website experiments may be conducted instead of or in addition to other more carefully planned website experiments.

Thus in operation a random or pseudorandom disturbance see may be introduced which causes the presentation of the website to visitors to change. For example the disturbance may be the failure of a service within the website computers such as a service that provides a particular piece of information that is normally published on a particular web page. As a result the information that is normally published with the web page is not published on the web page. As another example the disturbance may be the operation of a website optimization algorithm which causes the way one or more items are displayed on a web page to change. For example a website optimization algorithm may discern visitor preferences interests and on this basis determine that certain items should be displayed more prominently on a web page. As another example the disturbance may be a change implemented responsive to detection of a visitor preference interest either implicitly or explicitly specified by the customer by the website optimization algorithm such that the detection of the visitor preference interest may be used as a trigger to test a particular layout or feature on other visitors. As another example the disturbance may be a manually implemented change to the website which appears unexpectedly from the perspective of the website experimentation tool . For example a website developer may change the presentation of one or more web pages to change or add one or more additional features e.g. to add new fields to change existing fields to provide different information and so on . As another example the disturbance may be caused as a result of a network partition which is preventing the flow of data needed for the presentation of one or more of the features. As used herein the term random or pseudo random disturbance is intended to encompass each of the above disturbances.

In an exemplary embodiment a user may insert an calculation descriptor in a calculation table of the data collection analysis computers . Website experiments may then be performed responsive to the detection of the change in combination with the insertion of the calculation descriptor in the calculation table. As described in the Ser. No. 11 375 636 application calculation descriptors may be inserted into the calculation table to permit users to specify processing to be performed by the data collection analysis computers . For example the calculation descriptor may specify parameters of changes which if met should trigger a website experiment. In another exemplary embodiment rules logic is included which allows rules to be established to decide what types of changes should trigger a website experiment. In another exemplary embodiment each change in the presentation of the website triggers a website experiment.

At step the change in value delivered to visitors of the website as a result of the change in the presentation of the website is assessed. For example if a particular service is unavailable and certain information normally provided on a certain web page is not provided it may be determined whether there is any perceptible change in the value received by visitors due to the information not being provided. As another example if a website optimization algorithm changes the manner in which certain items are displayed it may be determined whether there is any perceptible change in the value received by visitors due to the change in the manner in which the items are displayed. As another example if a field is added or changed on a web page it may be determined whether there is any perceptible change in the value received by visitors due to the added or changed field.

The value received by visitors may be assessed by tracking visitor interactions with the website and assessing how visitor interactions change responsive to the change in the presentation of the website. The value received by visitors may be assessed based on numerous visits to the website by different visitors for example so that a statistically significant sample may be obtained. Performance ratings may be applied to features that have been shown to visitors to establish how strongly the feature is correlated with a particular visitor interaction such as whether a visitor selects a particular link. If a particular change results in visitors selecting a particular link a higher percentage of time then greater value may have been received by the visitors. In another exemplary embodiment discussed in greater detail below in connection with and visitor traffic patterns may be evaluated to assess the change in value delivered to visitors. The value may be assessed by the data collection analysis computers substantially in real time or as part of a historical analysis.

When a result that is potentially of interest has been produced by the website experiment the data collection analysis computers may generate a result notification or other result output to indicate that the result has been produced. For example the data collection analysis computers may generate a result notification if a change in value has been detected and the change in value is considered to be statistically significant. Alternatively the data collection analysis computers may generate a result notification as soon as enough samples have been collected to produce statistically significant results even when no change in value has been detected. For example if a feature has been temporarily removed from a web page and if no change in value has been detected even after enough samples have been collected to produce statistically significant results then this may be of interest. For example this may indicate that no discernable value was delivered by the feature and may prompt its permanent removal.

In an exemplary embodiment when a result notification is generated the result notification may be transmitted to the website experimentation interface for review by a human user. The human user may also be provided with other details concerning the nature of the experiment performed and the results that were generated e.g. the feature that was removed information concerning the web page from which the feature was removed and so on . Results may also be filtered and or prioritized. For example results may be filtered so that the human users are only provided with experiment results where the results meet predetermined parameters e.g. statistical reliability thresholds value thresholds and so on . The results may be prioritized by assigning weights to the predetermined parameters that are examined and then combining the weighted values to generate an overall score which assigns a higher ranking to those results that are likely to be of the greatest interest e.g. due to a higher statistical reliability due to higher value and so on . Thus although experiments may constantly be performed to assess the impact of changes to the website the results of the experiments may be filtered or prioritized such that only those experiments which produce the most interesting results are presented to human users.

At step the presentation of the website may be changed e.g. configuration change in to reflect feedback obtained during steps and . The decision to change the presentation of the website in step may be made automatically manually or a combination thereof. For example logic may be included to automatically remove a feature if a website experiment indicates that removing it does not cause any loss in value to visitors. In another exemplary embodiment a proposed change may be presented for approval at the website experimentation interface and the user may accept reject the change as appropriate. Logic may also be included for determining which changes are implemented automatically and which changes require human approval.

As will be appreciated from the process of significant amounts of useful feedback may be obtained even where the website is constantly changing due to random disturbances that are not part of a larger overall plan. Indeed it is the constant changing of the website that facilitates experiments and that allows such feedback to be obtained. The data processing system may thus provide a learning system that assesses value provided to visitors and use the results of the assessment to provide a better experience for the visitors.

Referring now to the website computers may comprise one or more components which may be used in connection with the website experimentation process of . The website computers may include a service availability manager which is implemented in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Ser. No. 11 329 665 entitled System and Method for Service Availability Management filed Jan. 11 2006 the 665 application hereby incorporated by reference. As will be described in greater detail below in connection with the data collection analysis computers may be configured to conduct website experiments to improve the manner in which the service availability manager uses importance ranking information in situations where services become overloaded and are not able to respond to at least some service requests.

The website computers may further include traffic pattern analysis logic . In an exemplary embodiment the traffic pattern analysis logic may be implemented in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Ser. No. 11 321 890 entitled Method and System for Determining Interest Levels of Online Content Navigation Paths filed Dec. 29 2005 the 890 application hereby incorporated by reference. The 890 application discloses techniques which may for example be used to highlight the most heavily trafficked links on a web page or website. Such techniques may also be used in connection with conducting website experiments. For example such techniques may be used to assess value delivered to visitors of a website as described in greater detail below in connection with and .

The website computers may further include link prominence logic . In an exemplary embodiment the link prominence logic is implemented in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Ser. No. 11 186 357 entitled Displaying Links at Varying Levels of Prominence to Reveal Emergent Paths Based on User Interaction filed Jul. 21 2005 the 357 application hereby incorporated by reference. The 357 application discloses techniques which may for example be used to help visitors identify links that have been more frequently selected in the past or that are otherwise considered helpful or useful. Such techniques may also be used in connection with helping users identify links that are helpful or useful as indicated by the results of website experiments as discussed below.

The website computers may further include website personalization logic . In an exemplary embodiment website personalization logic may be configured to segment visitors and to use the information learned in website experiments to modify presentation of the website on a segment by segment basis. Thus for example the nature of the website that is presented e.g. level of complexity color schemes and so on may be customized to a particular user based on the results of website experiments.

Referring now also to another example with additional details is described. In the example of in an exemplary embodiment the presentation of the web page may change due to variations in the health of a service that provides information for publication with the web page. Referring first to a program process is shown that may be running in the website computers and that is configured to construct web pages. The program process comprises program components which make service requests to services which are part of a service framework. For example the program components may construct web pages by requesting certain data from the services and using the data received from the services to populate fields in a web page template .

As described in greater detail in the 665 application service requests may be made to the same service from different program components that produce different web pages. Depending on the web page information that is considered critical in the context of one web page may be considered optional in the context of another web page. Accordingly an importance ranking may be associated with each service request based on importance ranking configuration information stored in the service availability manager . The importance ranking may be configured differently for each service and for each different program component within each different process that sends service requests to a particular service .

The importance ranking information may be used in determining which service requests are permitted to be made to a service that has poor health. For example if there is statistical evidence that a service is in trouble then less critical service requests may not be sent to the service while more critical service requests may continue to be sent. If a service is already overloaded the decision not to permit a service request protects the service from taking on additional load which may cause the service to fail. Thus this arrangement helps protect the service from failing while at the same time permits the service to continue responding to critical service requests.

In an exemplary embodiment the website experimentation process of is used to determine an optimal value for the importance ranking information for example whether a service request is considered critical or not critical. A non binary e.g. floating point value ranking scheme may also be used. The data processing system may learn over time what traffic paths are valuable and therefore what features are critical. The value of the feature as determined through website experimentation may then be used to configure the importance ranking information. Also whether the importance ranking information is configured dynamically or manually may be configured separately for each service and for each different program component within each different process that sends service requests to a particular service . For example if a feature is known to be critical the importance ranking information for the associated service request may be manually designated as critical.

Referring now to a flowchart of a website experimentation process that may be used in connection with the arrangement of is shown. The process may be used to set the importance ranking information based on visitor interactions with a website when one of the services used to provide information in connection with a web page is in poor health. In some steps are shown as being performed by the website computers and some steps are shown as being performed by the website experimentation tool . It will be appreciated that the allocation of tasks between the website computers and the website experimentation tool is exemplary and that the tasks may be allocated in other ways as well.

The process may be initiated when a visitor makes a request e.g. by clicking on a link for a particular web page to be published. As indicated in the web page may be constructed by requesting certain data from services and using the data received from the service to populate fields in a web page template . The fields include a field which is to be populated with data from a service which is in poor health. For purposes of the example it is assumed that the importance ranking information designates the service request to the service as being non critical.

In an exemplary embodiment the website experiment that is to be performed may be at least partially configured in advance. For example in a link is shown which is designated as being a high value link. The website experiment may be configured to test the impact of any change on visitor interactions with the high value link . That is when a change is made to the web page the website experiment may be configured to assess whether the change resulted in an increase or a decrease in the percentage of time that visitors selected the high value link . As will be appreciated to the extent that there is more than one high value link on a web page the same experiment may be repeated for each different high value link on the web page. As will also be appreciated whether a link is designated as being a high value link may be manually or dynamically configured. For example on a web page with an add to cart link that permits a visitor to add an item to a shopping cart the add to cart link may be manually designated as a high value link. As another example on a web page with a submit order link that permits a visitor to complete a purchase transaction the submit order link may be manually designated as a high value link. As another example feedback may be obtained from visitors of the website regarding which features are considered valuable. As another example a scoring algorithm may be used which monitors visitor interactions with the web page to determine which links are the most popular and the most popular links may be dynamically configured as high value links. In another exemplary embodiment the website experiment may be repeated for all links on the web page without regard to whether the links are considered high value links.

Steps are shown as being performed by the website computers . At step it is determined that the service is in poor health. For example the poor health may be detected based on statistical evidence that the service is in trouble such as an increase in the average response time required by the service to respond to service requests. The fact that the service is in poor health may for example be determined by the service availability manager . At step a feature associated with field is omitted based on the importance ranking of the service request to the service . For example the service availability manager may include call decision logic which decides that a service request should not be made to the service based on the importance ranking i.e. non critical of the service request and the health i.e. poor of the service . When a service request is not made and the relevant data is not obtained from the service then the corresponding field is not populated with the information that would have been provided by the service . Accordingly at step the web page is published omitting the feature associated with field .

The website computers may also transmit a notification to the data collection analysis computers that the service is in poor health. For example when the service availability manager makes the decision not to call the service a notification may be sent to the data collection analysis computers . This notification may then trigger a portion of the website experimentation process shown as steps performed at the data collection analysis computers .

At step the occurrence or non occurrence of a monitored event is detected. For example the monitored event may be whether the visitor selects the high value link. Whether the monitored event has occurred may be detected by monitoring log records received from the website computers . If the next log record received indicates that the visitor was presented with the web page associated with the high value link then the monitored event may be assumed to have occurred. On the other hand if the next log record received indicates that the visitor was presented with another web page then the monitored event may be assumed not to have occurred.

As will be appreciated the monitored event may potentially be any event that may occur with regard to a web page or a website. As previously indicated any type of link may be designated as a high value link which may be monitored for visitor selection. Further the monitored event may relate to other aspects of the visitors interaction with the website such as how quickly the visitor moves from web page to web page how many different pages are presented to the visitor during the visitor s session and so on. This provides greater flexibility in assessing the value of a particular link or other feature of a web page. An indication of value may be obtained at any point in the visitor s interactions with the website.

At step performance data for the web page is updated and performance variations are assessed. At step it is determined whether the performance variations are statistically significant. As will be appreciated performance data for the web page may be accumulated for many visits and for many visitors so that a large enough sample size may be obtained to make a meaningful comparison of the performance of the web page with and without the feature. Accordingly portions of the process of may be performed many times before a meaningful comparison may be made and steps may involve at least in part accumulating performance data for many visits and for many visitors.

Steps may be performed in a variety of ways. In an exemplary embodiment historical performance information may be retrieved by the data collection analysis computers from the data repository . The web pages retrieved in the historical search may serve as the control group for purposes of the website experiment and the web pages published at step may serve as the test group for purposes of the experiment. For example a search may be made for web pages that were published during a preceding day or week of website visits and that are identical to the web page published in step except that they include the omitted feature. The log records associated with such web pages may then be analyzed to determine whether the visitor was subsequently presented with the web page associated with the high value link as described above. In other words for web pages retrieved in the historical search the percentage of time that the visitor selected the high value link may be determined. Once enough performance data is collected concerning the performance of the web pages published at step a meaningful comparison may be made.

In another exemplary embodiment rather than rendering the service entirely unavailable for purposes of providing information to populate the field the service may be rendered unavailable for only a portion of the traffic that views a particular web page. For example the call decision logic may be configured such that the service request is permitted for 50 of visitors that are presented with a web page but is not permitted for the other 50 of the visitors. Thus half the visitors may be presented with the feature and the other half of the visitors may not be presented with the feature. The web pages in which the visitor is presented with the feature may serve as the control group for purposes of the website experiment and the web pages in which the visitor is not presented with the feature may serve as the test group for purposes of the experiment. Once enough performance data is collected concerning the performance of the web page published with and without the feature at step a meaningful comparison may be made.

In another exemplary embodiment a multivariate analysis may be performed to assess which features on a web page are highly correlated with visitor selection of the high value link. For example the multivariate analysis may be used where other features on a given web page are also changing and a statistical attribution may be performed to attribute variations in the performance of the web page e.g. whether visitors selected the high value link to specific ones of the variations in the presentation of the web page. For example a logit model may be used having the form

In the above approaches in order to increase the size of a sample data set it may be desirable to group web pages and to analyze the performance history of the group of web pages as whole. For example if a feature provided by the service is presented on multiple web pages which are very similar e.g. web pages that provide product details for similar products it may be desirable to group the web pages together and assess the feature relative to the group of web pages as a whole.

The process described by steps repeats until the results obtained are considered statistically significant. When enough performance data has been collected that statistically significant results have been generated then at step an event notification may be issued. At step the website computers store an updated importance ranking.

As will be appreciated there are a variety of ways in which step steps may be performed. For example the data collection analysis computers may generate a result notification if a change in value has been detected and the change in value is considered to be statistically significant. Alternatively the data collection analysis computers may generate a result notification as soon as enough samples have been collected to produce statistically significant results even when no change in value has been detected. For example if a feature has been temporarily removed from a web page and if no change in value has been detected even after enough samples have been collected to produce statistically significant results then this may be of interest. For example this may indicate that no discernable value was delivered by the feature and may prompt its permanent removal. Also as will be appreciated it is not necessary that every website experiment yield statistically meaningful results. For those website experiments that do not yield statistically meaningful results the results may be disregarded if desired. In those situations where statistically meaningful results are produced of course such results may be used to enhance the website for visitors.

The manner in which the importance ranking information is updated may depend in part on the original importance ranking of the service request and the outcome of the website experiment. Thus in the example of the service request is considered non critical. However a similar process may be used where a service request is considered critical but the service has failed and therefore the feature associated with field is still omitted. For a service request that is originally considered non critical the different possible outcomes may include a dramatic decrease in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the importance ranking of the feature should be raised to critical from non critical a moderate decrease in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the importance ranking of the feature should remain at non critical no decrease or an increase in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the feature should be removed from the web page and so on. For a service request that is originally considered critical the different possible outcomes may include a dramatic decrease in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the importance ranking of the feature should remain at critical a moderate decrease in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the importance ranking of the feature should be downgraded to non critical no decrease or an increase in visitor selections of the high value link indicating that the feature should be removed from the web page and so on. As will be appreciated if a non binary importance ranking scheme is used the above described results may occur on a continuum.

Where there are multiple high value links on a given web page the performance of each feature may be considered in the aggregate of the multiple high value links. That is a feature that is not considered valuable in the context of one high value link but is considered valuable in the context of a another high value link may be retained. Alternatively a feature that is considered moderately valuable in the context of the two high valuable links individually may be critical when considered in the context of the combination of the two high valuable links. As will be appreciated other permutations and combinations may be possible particularly if a non binary importance ranking scheme is used.

The updated importance ranking information may be generated by the data collection analysis computers and transmitted to the website computers as part of a data message that accompanies the notification. Alternatively the importance ranking information may be generated by the website computers based on the indication of the results of the website experiment conducted by the website experimentation tool .

In website experiments are performed in which features are randomly or pseudo randomly removed from a web page and the impact of removing the feature from the web page is automatically assessed. The results of the website experiments may be used to enhance the operation of the service availability manager described in the 665 patent application by making the importance ranking information more accurately reflect visitor preferences. The importance ranking information may be used to determine how long to wait for a response from a service when the service is less healthy. With accurate importance ranking information it is more likely that visitors will be presented with features that are considered critical less likely that visitors will have to wait for features that are considered non critical and so on.

In addition the visitors experience may be enhanced to the extent it is less cluttered with features that are not considered valuable. In the example of if no negative impact on removing the feature is detected then the feature may be removed. When other service interruptions occur additional website experiments may be performed which indicate that one or more other features on the same page should be removed. Eventually the web page may come to a steady state configuration in which all of the non beneficial features are removed and there are no other features left that should be removed.

Referring now to and another example with additional details is described. In an exemplary embodiment as previously indicated traffic pattern analysis logic may be implemented in accordance with the teachings of the 890 application. The 890 application discloses techniques which may for example be used to highlight the most heavily trafficked links on a web page or website. Such techniques may also be used in connection with conducting website experiments. and show an arrangement in which the traffic pattern analysis techniques may be used to assess value delivered to visitors of a website.

Referring first to a web page is shown which comprises a plurality of fields . Each field comprises a link that may be selected by a visitor. Next to each link is shown an indicator e.g. one or more symbols which represents the level of traffic through a particular link. For example a link that has a symbol next to it may be twice as heavily trafficked as a link with a single symbol next to it. The indicators may be displayed to visitors or may simply represent tracking information stored in memory. If the indicators are displayed to visitors a more graphically appealing approach may be used. For example as disclosed in the 890 application the font size coloring brightness and so on of text links may be altered. For example if five different font sizes are employed each additional in may correspond to an increase in font size. Other approaches may also be used.

In the example of and the indicators provide a measure of traffic through a link on a website for purposes of website experimentation and are shown in only for purposes of describing operation of a website experiment. Herein for purposes of discussion it is assumed that neither the indicators nor variations thereof are displayed to visitors but rather are simply stored as tracking information in memory.

In it is seen that there are twenty five indicators distributed over ten links . The indicators may be allocated to the links based on the popularity of each link with the total number of indicators remaining constant. As visitors select links each selection not only increases the ranking of the selected link but decreases the ranking of unselected links. Thus as one link becomes more heavily trafficked and receives more indicators other links inherently become less popular and indicators are taken away . It will be appreciated that in practice the tracking information may be stored in a numeric format e.g. as floating point numbers such that a large or potentially infinite number of possibilities exists for the rank assigned to each link .

The links include links and . Links and are high value links and link is a low value link. As shown in link is considered a high value link but only receives a small portion of the traffic. Conversely link is considered a low value link but receives a large portion of the traffic. Whether a link is a high value link or a low value link may be determined from the perspective of the visitor. Merely because a link is popular does not mean that it is high value to a visitor. For example a link may contain a promise of a financial reward if selected thereby making the link heavily trafficked but the web page that is provided responsive to selection of the link may not adequately fulfill the promise of the financial reward. In an exemplary embodiment upon selecting a link and viewing content on the web page published responsive to the selection of the link visitors May be provided with the ability to provide feedback regarding whether the found a link to be valuable. For example the toolbar that is presented to the visitor may include two back buttons one back button e.g. Back Happy which the visitor may select to indicate that the web page contained content that the visitor considered valuable and another back button e.g. Back Unhappy which the visitor may select to indicate that the web page did not contain content that the visitor considered valuable. As another example if a visitor proceeds with purchasing a product displayed on a web page published responsive to the selection of a link the fact that the visitor proceeded with a transaction indicates that the web page contained content that the visitor considered valuable. As will be appreciated the successful completion of a transaction may be mutually beneficial to both the website and to the visitor. The value of the transaction may be used as an indication of the value of the web page content to the visitor. Other approaches may also be used to solicit visitor feedback.

Referring now also to a flowchart of a website experimentation process that may be used in connection with the arrangement of is shown. In an exemplary embodiment in the traffic pattern analysis technique described above is employed. Thus as visitors select links the selection not only increases the ranking of the selected links but decreases the ranking of unselected links. At step the presentation of the web page is changed. For example as shown in a field may be changed. A data message may be sent to the website experimentation tool indicating that the presentation of the web page has changed.

The data collection analysis computers may then proceed in the manner previously described in connection with . That is the occurrence of a monitored event may be detected at step . At step traffic data for the web page is updated and performance variations are assessed. At step it is determined whether the performance variations are statistically significant. Again as discussed above in connection with enough performance data for the web page may be accumulated for many visits and for many visitors so that a large enough sample size may be obtained to make a meaningful comparison of the performance of the web page with and without the feature. Accordingly portions of the process of may be performed many times before a meaningful comparison may be made and steps may involve at least in part accumulating performance data for many visits and for many visitors. A control group and a test group may be defined as above.

With reference to it is seen that the change in field has resulted in an increase in traffic through high value link . However the increase in traffic comes at the expense in traffic through high value link . Accordingly no overall change in value delivered to the visitor occurs as a result in the change in field . With reference to as another example it is seen that the change in field has resulted in an increase in traffic through high value link . This time the increase in traffic comes at the expense in traffic through low value link . Accordingly the visitor experiences an overall increase in value delivered as a result in the change in field . Thus the traffic pattern analysis logic provides another mechanism for assessing changes in value delivered to visitors of the website. Particularly the traffic pattern analysis logic allows shifts in traffic patterns to be automatically analyzed in response to any random or pseudo random change in the presentation of a web page and enables unintended changes in traffic patterns to be detected that may not be detected by examining traffic through a single link in isolation.

At step an event notification is issued. For example the data collection analysis computers may be configured to generate an event notification upon detecting a statistically significant shift in traffic patterns. At step the website computers store updated traffic data for further analysis. Again it will be appreciated there steps may be performed a variety of ways as generally discussed above in connection with steps of .

In an exemplary embodiment the results of a website experiment performed as described in connection with and may be provided to website developers for further analysis. For example as described in connection with changing a field may have an unintended consequence on website traffic. Upon detecting such an unintended consequence the data collection analysis computers may issue an event notification so that website developers may be alerted to the situation and take corrective action.

In another exemplary embodiment the results of a website experiment performed as described in connection with and may be used to automatically reconfigure an aspect of the presentation of the website. For example the presentation of links may be altered by link prominence logic to direct traffic to higher value features and or to reflect a result of the website experiment. For example for a text link the link may use a larger font a bolded font flashing font and so on. For other types of links other graphical techniques may be used such as magnifying the link presenting the link in a fish eye view graying out less popular areas sorting links based on popularity or visitor feedback placing links in more or less prominent locations on a web page e.g. by migrating features into or out of locations that require scrolling down in order to be viewed and so on.

Referring now to in step of value may be assessed in the context of individual visitors or segments of visitors. In at step a change is detected in the presentation of a website. Step may be performed as described above in connection with step of .

At step visitors are segmented for example by placing visitors with like attributes into common segments. The placement of a visitor into a segment may be performed based on a number of different attributes. For example the placement into a segment may be performed based on visitor behavior e.g. click stream behavior purchase history and so on . For example visitors that exhibit similar shopping behavior when provided with similar website presentations e.g. simple versus complicated look and feel trendy versus traditional look and feel particular color schemes and so on may be placed into common segments. As another example visitors that access the website using similar hardware e.g. personal computers versus portable handheld wireless devices versus television set top boxes or using specialized interfaces e.g. audio only interfaces for the visually impaired may be placed into common segments. The visitor behavior used to place visitors into segments may be observed over multiple visits to the website. The visitor may be recognized for example based on the unique browser ID of the visitor i.e. so that anyone who accesses the website from that UBID a particular machine will be assumed to be the same visitor. If the visitor is required to sign in to the website or is otherwise required to provide identifying information the visitor may be recognized on this basis as well. At step the change in value delivered to visitors of the website as a result of the change in the presentation of the website is assessed. At step the presentation of the website may be changed to reflect feedback obtained during steps .

The process of permits the website to be personalized to the visitor based on the results of website experiments. For example by placing traffic into segments and having features added and removed from the website experimentally the impact of adding or removing features may be assessed on a segment by segment basis. Further based on the results of the website experiments updates to the website may be made on a segment by segment basis e.g. features may be made visible to some segments of traffic but not to other segments of traffic . This allows certain features to be presented to segments which may respond to such features but prevents such features from being presented to segments which likely will not respond to them. For the latter segment this avoids cluttering the experience of members of the segment with features such segment members will not use anyway. In other exemplary embodiments the website may be customized to configure whether the website is simple or complicated whether the website provides currency converters whether the website is in a particular language whether the website has particular color schemes whether the website has a look and feel e.g. trendy traditional and so on which targets particular age groups and so on. Thus in addition to showing particular products to particular visitors the nature of the website that is presented may be customized.

Here and throughout terms such as visitor and website are to be understood in the broadest possible sense. A visitor may be an individual who visits and views or otherwise perceives the content of a website and pages therein via a web browser or other client software program running on a personal computer wireless handheld device or the like but may also be for example a corporate or other entity whose servers access published web content by invoking web services through appropriate application programming interfaces APIs . In a similar vein and as will be apparent from the foregoing terms such as web page website and so forth are used to give specific illustrative examples of settings in which on line content can be presented to and perceived by visitors. The term user includes visitors and also includes any other individuals or entities that may use the systems and methods described herein including individuals and entities that own develop maintain or otherwise operate websites that take advantage of the teachings herein. Such examples are not intended to be limiting and persons of skill in the art will appreciate that many other such settings now known or yet to be developed may be suitable to the practice of the present invention in specific embodiments.

The invention is described above with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the present invention. However describing the invention with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations that may be present in the drawings. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated machine readable media provide nonvolatile storage of machine executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

It should be noted that although the flowcharts provided herein show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

