---

title: Configuration based hierarchical product selection and product e-commerce agent management
abstract: A method for hierarchical product selection and purchasing from a server. The method includes accessing a plurality of products from a plurality of component subareas, wherein the products are for an assembly of a computer system, and wherein each of the component subareas have corresponding compatibility constraints with respect to other component subareas. A hierarchical presentation of the products is generated, wherein the presentation proceeds from a parent product out of the plurality of products to a child product out of the plurality of products. The hierarchical presentation of the products are provided to a client computer system via a Web browser hosted on the client computer system, wherein the presentation is configured to show child component subareas that satisfy compatibility restraints with parent component subareas. An order for the at least one product is accepted and implemented with a corresponding e-commerce agent for the product.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762214&OS=08762214&RS=08762214
owner: Nvidia Corporation
number: 08762214
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061114
---
The field of the present invention pertains to the management of electronic commerce operations on a distributed computer network. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and system for implementing of component shopping in an electronic commerce retail operation.

In the world of online commerce buyers and sellers use a variety of techniques to ensure goods and services meet their mutual expectations. For example many users have become familiar with the electronic retail experience through a multitude of different e commerce agents.

Many users have purchased products from companies that specialize in providing products or services directly to customers. Such companies are typically referred to as direct sellers. In general there are two types of direct sellers electronic retailers or e tailers and manufacturers. A direct seller refers to those companies whereby upon receiving an order the e tailer ships products directly to the consumer or to a wholesaler or manufacturer for delivery. A manufacturer sells directly to consumers via the interne. For the manufacturer the goal is to remove intermediaries e.g. disintermediation and to establish direct customer relationships.

Online intermediaries provide another type of electronic retail experience to customers. Online intermediaries are companies that facilitate transactions between buyers and sellers. These firms make up the largest group of B2C business to consumer companies today. Generally the most common type of online intermediary are brokers. A broker is a company that facilitates transactions between buyers and a variety of different sellers. For example a virtual mall typically refers to a broker company that helps consumers buy from a variety of different online stores.

With each of these electronic retail providers advantages are afforded to the customer with respect to enabling the online shopping experience to be executed faster and with more convenience. Product offerings and prices can be updated immediately to reflect certain sales or deals. Other advantages include the fact that in some cases call centers can be integrated with the website. Additionally the widespread adoption of broadband telecommunications will further enhance the overall buying experience.

There exists a problem however with respect to the customer online commerce experience for purchasing specialized components for complex systems. Home built desktop computer systems comprise one such specialized system.

Home built or do it yourself computer systems refer to those computer systems whereby the individual components comprising the computer system are purchased by the customer from one or more sources. The sources can be the neighborhood electronics store but are more often online electronic retailers. The components are then assembled by the customer into a complete computer system. Such components include for example computer system motherboards system memory CPUs graphics cards hard drives computer system cases chassis displays and the like.

Computer systems are complex systems. The complexity stems from the fact that to achieve a desired level of suitability for a particular purpose or to achieve a desired level of overall performance certain components are only compatible with a distinct subset of the total available components that might be present on the marketplace. For example certain motherboards are only compatible with certain types of system memory. Certain graphics cards are only compatible with certain types of motherboards. Certain CPUs are only compatible with certain types of system memory and or motherboards. Certain CPU motherboard graphics card combinations require certain power supplies which in turn require certain system chassis. Such compatibility constraints apply to virtually each of the components that make up a desktop computer system.

The increasing popularity of computer systems and their use in graphics based applications such as video editing gaming and the like has given rise to a new class of customers that prefer to build their own computer system e.g. do it yourself buyers . These customers embrace the challenge of selecting the various components that go into making their computer systems.

A significant number of such potential do it yourself customers however may not have the skill to implement or may be intimidated by the selection buying process. A significant number of the potential do it yourself buyers would very much like to exercise the personal discretion inherent in the selection and purchasing of the individual components making up their computer system but are otherwise inclined to avoid the process. Such buyers may fall back on more traditional purchases from for example OEM system builders in order to avoid making mistakes.

Thus what is required is an electronic commerce method and system that provides the benefits of purchasing specialized components for complex systems such as home building a desktop computer system while avoiding the potential pitfalls of making mistakes in the component selection process. Embodiments the present invention provide a novel solution to the above requirement.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an electronic commerce method and system that gives customers the benefits of purchasing specialized components for complex systems such as home building a desktop computer system while avoiding the potential pitfalls of making mistakes in the component selection process.

In one embodiment the present invention is implemented as a method for hierarchical product selection and purchasing from a server. The method includes accessing a plurality of products from a plurality of component subareas wherein the products are for an assembly of a computer system and wherein each of the component subareas e.g. motherboard core logic chip set have corresponding compatibility constraints with respect to other component subareas e.g. CPU type . A hierarchical presentation of the products is generated wherein the presentation proceeds from a parent product out of the plurality of products to a child product out of the plurality of products. The hierarchical presentation of the products are provided to a client computer system via a Web browser hosted on the client computer system wherein the presentation is configured to show child component subareas that satisfy compatibility restraints with parent component subareas. An order for the at least one product is accepted and implemented with a corresponding e commerce agent for the product.

In one embodiment the e commerce agent is an electronic retailer. Alternatively the e commerce agent can be an electronic retailer broker. The component subareas can comprise for example motherboards graphics cards CPUs and or the like. In one embodiment the presentation provided via the Web browser includes descriptive information regarding the parent component and a highlighted one of a plurality of child components that are compatible with the parent component. The descriptive information can include for example performance information e commerce agent inventory information and price information. The descriptive information can further include a link for accepting the order for the highlighted child component.

In this manner embodiments of the present invention provide an electronic commerce method and system that gives customers the benefits of purchasing specialized components for complex systems such as desktop computer systems while avoiding the potential pitfalls of making mistakes in the component selection process. Multiple e commerce agents can be directly compared to find the best inventory availability the best warranty the best price or the like. For example a computer system can be specifically configured to provide high performance or alternatively an economical price while preventing the user from making any component miss choices or miss selections and while not requiring the customer to perform extensive research or enlist the help of more technically minded friends.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of embodiments of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the embodiments of the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present invention discussions utilizing terms such as processing or accessing or executing or storing or rendering or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system e.g. computer system of or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The CPU and the GPU can also be integrated into a single integrated circuit die and the CPU and GPU may share various resources such as instruction logic buffers functional units and so on or separate resources may be provided for graphics and general purpose operations. Accordingly any or all the circuits and or functionality described herein as being associated with the GPU can also be implemented in and performed by a suitably equipped CPU . Additionally while embodiments herein may make reference to a GPU it should be noted that the described circuits and or functionality can also be implemented and other types of processors e.g. general purpose or other special purpose coprocessors or within a CPU.

System can be implemented as for example a desktop computer system or server computer system having a powerful general purpose CPU coupled to a dedicated graphics rendering GPU . In such an embodiment components can be included that add peripheral buses specialized audio video components IO devices and the like. Similarly system can be implemented as a handheld device e.g. cellphone etc. or a set top video game console device such as for example the Xbox available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the PlayStation3 available from Sony Computer Entertainment Corporation of Tokyo Japan. System can also be implemented as a system on a chip where the electronics e.g. the components and the like of a computing device are wholly contained within a single integrated circuit die. Examples include a hand held instrument with a display a car navigation system a portable entertainment system and the like.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a method and system for hierarchical product selection and purchasing from a server. The method includes accessing a plurality of products from a plurality of component subareas wherein the products are for an assembly of a computer system and wherein each of the component subareas have corresponding compatibility constraints with respect to other component subareas. A hierarchical presentation of the products is generated wherein the presentation proceeds from a parent product out of the plurality of products to a child product out of the plurality of products. The hierarchical presentation of the products is presented via a Web browser interface on a user s client computer system wherein the presentation is configured to show child component subareas that satisfy compatibility restraints with parent component subareas. Web browser interface can accept orders for the products and implement the orders with corresponding e commerce agents for the product. Embodiments in the present invention and their benefits are further described below.

Out of the set of electronic retailers three exemplary subsets of electronic retailers are shown. The subsets represent three different exemplary electronic retailer brokers. Electronic retailer brokers function as brokers that facilitate transactions between buyers and the different sellers. For example the electronic retailers brokers function is intermediaries that facilitate transactions between buyers shopping for different components and the electronic retailers that stock and sell those different components.

In one embodiment the electronic retailers provide a plurality of different computer components for sale to customers. Such computer components can be browsed selected and purchased by customers and provide virtually all of the components required to assemble a complete computer system. Such computer systems can be desktop computer systems small form factor computer systems laptop computer systems television set top console systems and the like.

The various different components sold by electronic retailers allow a variety of different computer system configurations to be built. For example a customer can select and purchase high performance graphics components e.g. one or more high performance graphics cards and a motherboard equipped with a high performance core logic chipset to build a computer system having exceptionally high graphics performance e.g. for games video editing graphics applications etc. . Similarly the customer can select and purchase low cost components to build a computer system on a comparatively low budget.

The customer needs to exercise care when purchasing products to assemble a home built or do it yourself computer system regardless of the specific performance niche the computer system is to fulfill. For example regardless of whether the computer system is to be a high performance gaming computer system or an economical wordprocessing office software executing computer system the individual components that make up the overall computer system must be selected such that they are compatible with one another. For example motherboards need to be selected that match the appropriate CPU type system memory needs to be selected that matches the motherboard and CPU type a graphics card may or may not be required a discrete graphics card may or may not even be compatible with a given motherboard and the like. Embodiments of the present invention provide an electronic commerce method and system that gives customers the benefits of purchasing specialized components for complex systems such as home built computer systems while avoiding the potential pitfalls of making mistakes in the component selection process.

In one embodiment the server based method comprises accessing the number of different electronic retailer brokers . As described above embodiments of the present invention are implemented as an electronic commerce method that is implemented as computer software code e.g. a Web serving application etc. executing on one or more server s . The server accesses a plurality of different products offered for sale from a plurality of different component subareas. As described above in one embodiment these components are components for the assembly of a computer system e.g. motherboards system memory hard drives graphics cards etc. .

The server compiles a list of the products that are offered for sale by electronic retailer brokers . In one embodiment the server accesses the electronic retailer brokers via specialized APIs application programming interfaces that are provided by each of the electronic retailer brokers . The APIs provide an efficient means of accessing internal databases maintained by each of the electronic retailer brokers and pulling product information therefrom e.g. product description inventory information price information shipping information etc. .

Accessing the electronic retailers brokers provides an additional advantage in comparison to accessing the individual electronic retailers . Example electronic retailer brokers include Yahoo Shopping Amazon.com Froogle and the like. By accessing the electronic retailers brokers the server can take advantage of the product information collection that has already been performed by each of the electronic retailer brokers individually. For example as described above in the discussion of each of the electronic retailer brokers function as an intermediary between a plurality of electronic retailers and the large number of customers that browse the electronic retailer broker s web site. Each of the electronic retailer brokers scrapes or otherwise obtains product information from the various electronic retailers . This product information describes the various products each electronic retailer has for sale e.g. product description inventory information price information shipping information etc. . The electronic retailer broker then populates its own web site with this product information and creates its own unique web storefront look and feel for visiting customers shoppers.

Thus by accessing the electronic retailer brokers to obtain product information embodiments of the present invention can compile product information from a large cross section of the electronic retailers without having to visit each one of them individually. Additionally the product information can be obtained efficiently since the server accesses the electronic retailer brokers via their individual API.

In the embodiment each of the plurality of products have corresponding compatibility constraints with respect to their various component subareas. For example as described above were the family of products are for an assembly of a home built computer system a motherboard has compatibility constraints with respect to other components e.g. CPU type graphics card disk drive etc. . Embodiments of the present invention utilize a hierarchical relationship to illustrate the compatibility constraints between different components and or component subareas.

In one embodiment the server executes a software application that guides a user e.g. via client in the purchase of components used to assemble the computer system e.g. a desktop computer system . In this embodiment the application would prompt the user to specify a parent product. The parent product is considered as the foundation of the computer system and the product to which the subsequent child products are chosen in order to satisfy certain compatibility constraints.

In one embodiment the parent product is a motherboard or more specifically for example a motherboard core logic chipset. A user can be prompted through a series of choices that identifies the intended use of the home built computer system desired performance level of the computer system or the like to assist the user in narrowing down a range of choices of different motherboards. The motherboards include subcomponents such as core logic chipsets that constrain the available choices of child products. shows 11 possible choices extending from the parent product and each child product although should be noted that a fewer or larger number of choices can exist depending upon the type of product.

Continuing the above example once the user selects the desired motherboard the user is prompted to select the first child product . For example in a case where the first child product is a CPU the CPU must be chosen that is compatible with the motherboard . The choice of the CPU and the motherboard leads to the choice of the particular child product which can be for example a computer system chassis. This leads to the choice of the child product which can be for example the graphics card that is compatible with the earlier choices and which leads to the choice of the child product which can be for example the power supply for the computer system.

In each case the server guides the user selections such that the user is prevented from making incompatible choices between the different components and or subcomponents. For example depending upon the choice of the parent product only those child products that are compatible with the selected parent product are shown as available choices to the user and so on.

The descriptive information can include for example a description of the performance level of the motherboard its price the particular subcomponents included therein e.g. core logic chip set which electronic retailers have the motherboard in stock the price of the motherboard and the like. Additional descriptive information can include for example the shipping terms of the motherboard links to other web sites that have reviews of the motherboard links to a web site that executes a purchase of the motherboard e.g. a buy this product button links to a particular electronic retailer that carries the motherboard or the like.

In this manner the user is efficiently and informatively guided through a selection process for the various components required to build the computer system. At each step or alternatively after all the components of been selected the user is presented with the option of executing one or more purchases of the selected components directly through the display . In one embodiment the purchase order is implemented by the server directly placing the order with a corresponding electronic retailer. This electronic retailer can be suggested by the server or can be user chosen chosen from a list of available electronic retailers that carry the product. Alternatively the server can directly place the order with a corresponding electronic retailer broker.

Process begins in step where a server based software application accesses a plurality of different products from a plurality of different component subareas. As described above in one embodiment the plurality of products are various products for an assembly of a computer system and each of the component subareas have corresponding compatibility constraints with respect to other component subareas e.g. CPU motherboard memory etc. .

In one embodiment the server e.g. server of above compiles a list of the products that are offered for sale by a plurality of electronic retailer brokers. As described above in one embodiment the electronic retailer brokers can be accessed via specialized APIs that provide an efficient means of accessing internal databases maintained by each of the electronic retailer brokers and pulling product information therefrom.

In step a hierarchical presentation of the products is generated with respect to the respective compatibility constraints of each of the products. In one embodiment as described above the presentation can proceed from one or more parent products to one or more child products out of the plurality of products.

In step the server based software application provides hierarchical guidance to a user as the user selects one or more parent products to successive child products. As described above the hierarchical presentation of the products is presented via a client side Web browser interface that shows child component subareas that satisfy compatibility restraints with parent component subareas.

In step the server based software application accepts orders for one or more of the products and implements the orders with corresponding e commerce agents for the product s . As described above the orders are placed through for example a Web browser interface on a user s client computer.

With reference now to through a plurality of exemplary screen depictions are shown that illustrate a Web browser user interface presented to a user as the user interacts with the process server based software application. In the below examples the user is selecting products to build a desktop computer system.

Finally shows a list detailing all of the selected products chosen by the user as guided by the process . The list can show a total price of all of the selected products. The user can now buy the individual components directly as shown in or can e mail the entire list to themselves or to someone else for later shopping or the like. shows a web page invoked by the user pressing the button which brings up a web page of the vendor for the specific product thereby allowing the user to easily purchase the product.

In this manner embodiments of the present invention provide an electronic commerce method and system that gives customers the benefits of purchasing specialized components for complex systems such as desktop computer systems while avoiding the potential pitfalls of making mistakes in the component selection process. As shown by process and by through multiple e commerce agents can be directly compared to find the best inventory availability the best warranty the best price or the like while preventing the user from making any component miss choices or miss selections and while not requiring the customer to perform extensive research or enlist the help of more technically minded friends.

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

