---

title: Acoustically tuned cartridge casing catcher
abstract: A catcher, in combination with a firearm having an ejection port, for receiving and retaining expended magnetically attracted shell casings through the ejection port as the firearm is discharged. The catcher includes a hollow housing having a plurality of rigid walls, and retainers. One of the walls has an opening in communication with the ejection port when the catcher is mounted to the firearm for receiving the shell casings. At least one of the other walls includes a plurality of deflectors and each of the deflectors has a front face that is slanted away from the opening such that the deflectors are capable of deflecting the shell casings away from the opening and a rear face that is perpendicular to the planar surface of the housing or slanted away from the opening. At least one of the deflectors, alone or in combination with one or more other of the deflectors and a respective wall, provide a void and an aperture configured as an acoustic tuner structure tuned to provide reduction of noise emitted at the ejection port. The retainers are disposed at the rear face of the deflectors and are capable of retaining the shell casings when the catcher is in any position. The retainers comprise a permanent magnetic material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07134233&OS=07134233&RS=07134233
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07134233
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060130
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 946 248 filed Sep. 21 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 043 863 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 674 599 Oct. 1 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 836 991.

The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

The present invention generally relates to an acoustically tuned spent cartridge casing catcher for a firearm.

Cartridge casing catchers are mounted adjacent the ejection port of a firearm to catch the spent cartridge casings as the casings are ejected after a round is fired. The spent cartridge casings are generally collected for reloading and to prevent casings from being underfoot which can cause a shooter or observer unstable shooting or movement. The spent cartridge casings may also be collected by a cartridge casing catcher and container to reduce the evidence left at the shooting site and to reduce the noise generated during the shooting by eliminating the noise generated when the casings impact the surface i.e. floor roof etc. where the shooter i.e. firearm user is positioned. An example of a conventional spent shell container is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 166 333 to Kratzer Kratzer 333 .

Conventional spent cartridge casing catchers such as shown in the Kratzer 333 patent can have a deficiency in that spent cartridges are ejected with a significant force and tend to bounce inside the collection chamber and in some instances the spent cartridge can bounce back into the firearm ejection port causing the firearm to jam. Such a jam is highly undesirable when the firearm user is involved in a critical mission situation. In any event clearing jammed firearms is typically a time consuming annoying and potentially hazardous task.

Conventional spent cartridge casing catchers such as shown in the Kratzer 333 patent also have a deficiency in that such spent cartridge casing catchers are only effective when the firearm is operated in a normal typical design position i.e. with the weapon trigger grip in a substantially vertical position and the weapon ejection port in a substantially horizontal position . That is such conventional approaches only catch and hold spent cartridge casings when gravitational forces cause the spent cartridge casings to drop or move to a location in the catcher that is generally away from the firearm ejection port. As such when the user operates the firearm in an orientation that is not the orientation for which the spent cartridge casing catcher was designed typically a normal firearm operation position the spent cartridge casings are typically not properly captured and held and can readily cause the firearm to jam in many orientations of the firearm.

However the firearm user can not always fire the weapon from a position from which the conventional spent cartridge casing catcher was designed to operate and firearm jams can result. For example when the shooter desires to obtain a clear shot at a target to avoid detection operate the firearm at an oblique angle to provide clearance for a gas mask operate the firearm out of position fire the weapon around the clock i.e. through a full circle of rotation including when the weapon is upside down for instance when firing during a rolling maneuver etc.

Conventional spent cartridge casing catchers such as shown in the Kratzer 333 patent may have additional deficiencies in that the spent cartridges tend to rattle in the catcher collection chamber and thus cause additional undesirable noise.

The muzzle report of blow back operated and closed breech firearms may be reduced by the installation of a so called silencer more properly called a suppressor on the muzzle integral with the barrel of the firearm or both on the muzzle and integral with the barrel. Examples of some conventional firearms suppressors are shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 033 356 to Richardson U.S. Pat. No. 1 018 720 to Maxim and U.S. Pat. No. 1 229 675 to Thompson. However significant noise and flash i.e. blast are generated and expelled at the breech of the firearm especially for open bolt or blowback firearms and from a closed breech weapon especially from a so called gas impingement operating firearm such as AR15 and M16 assault rifles to an extent which can be unacceptable for clandestine operations.

For example well suppressed weapons such as the Heckler Koch Model HK MP5SD while having very low muzzle report still produce noise and flash from the ejection port which presents a blast that may be significant and unacceptable in some situations. Suppressed gas impingement operating firearms such as suppressed AR15 and M16 assault rifles still produce noise and flash from the ejection port also. Open bolt weapons such as the Ingram MAC 10 and Uzi Submachine Gun even when equipped with a muzzle mounted noise suppressor still can produce noise as well as flash from the breech that is at a level such that the user advisably wears ear protection to reduce the likelihood of hearing loss. Conventional casing catchers such as shown in the Kratzer 333 patent and especially bag type spent cartridge catchers may provide some flash reduction but provide very little reduction of the noise emitted at the firearm port.

Further the firearm operating mechanism e.g. bolt actuation especially in the case of semi automatic and full automatic firearms generates noise that can compromise the location of the firearm user. Such firearm mechanism generated noise is typically not attenuated to any significant level by conventional spent cartridge casing catchers such as shown in the Kratzer 333 patent. Such firearm operating mechanism noise is typically not reduced by conventional muzzle mounted firearms suppressors.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved spent cartridge casing catcher. Such an improved spent cartridge casing catcher may overcome deficiencies of conventional approaches.

Accordingly the present invention may provide an improved spent cartridge casing catcher including acoustic tuning. Such an improved spent cartridge casing catcher may provide reduced or eliminated bouncing of the spent cartridges back into the firearm ejection port and so reduce or eliminate jamming caused by the spent cartridge casings bouncing back reduced or eliminated rattle of collected spent cartridge casings and reduced or eliminated firearm ejection port blast noise and firearm mechanism noise when compared to conventional approaches. Such an improved spent cartridge casing catcher may overcome other deficiencies of conventional approaches and provide further advantages when compared to conventional approaches.

According to the present invention a catcher in combination with a firearm having an ejection port for receiving and retaining expended magnetically attracted shell casings through the ejection port as the firearm is discharged is provided. The catcher comprises a hollow housing having a plurality of rigid walls and retainers. One of the walls has an opening in communication with the ejection port when the catcher is mounted to the firearm for receiving the shell casings. At least one of the other walls comprises a plurality of deflectors and each of the deflectors has a front face that is slanted away from the opening such that the deflectors are capable of deflecting the shell casings away from the opening and a rear face that is perpendicular to the planar surface of the housing or slanted away from the opening and at least one of the deflectors alone or in combination with one or more other of the deflectors and a respective wall comprise a void and an aperture configured as an acoustic tuner structure tuned to provide reduction of noise emitted at the ejection port. The retainers are mounted at the rear face of the deflectors and are capable of retaining the shell casings when the catcher is in any position. The retainers comprise a permanent magnetic material.

The retainers may have a maximum magnetic energy product value that is sufficient to capture and retain the expended shell casings.

A seal may be attached to the housing at the opening. The seal is generally configured to provide a substantially air tight path between the ejection port and the opening.

The seal comprises a resilient compliant material in a solid gel sac closed cell foam or skin covered foam configuration.

The acoustic tuner structure comprises at least one of a quarter wave tuner a Quincke tuner and a Helmholtz tuner.

The magnetic material comprises magnetic strips that are affixed to the rear face of respective deflectors.

Each of the deflectors generally has a height that is equal to or greater than the diameter of the shell casings that are captured by the catcher.

The magnetic material may further comprise magnetic strips that are affixed to the gaps when the deflectors are separated by the gap.

The magnetic material is generally at least one of steel Strontium and Barium ferrite Samarium Cobalt Neodymium Iron Boron and Aluminum Nickel Cobalt alloy.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention generally provides an improved cartridge casing catcher. A user of a firearm i.e. a shooter may desire to catch the spent cartridge casings as the casings are ejected from the firearm after a round is fired. The spent cartridge casings i.e. shell casings may be collected e.g. using a cartridge casing catcher and container to prevent the casings from being underfoot which can cause the shooter or an observer unstable shooting or movement. The spent cartridge casings may also be collected by a cartridge casing catcher to reduce the evidence left at the shooting site and to reduce the noise generated during the shooting by eliminating the noise generated when the shell casings impact the surface i.e. floor roof etc. where the shooter is positioned.

Further the shooter may wish to reduce or eliminate noise generated by rattle of collected spent cartridge casings in the cartridge casing catcher.

Yet further the shooter may wish to operate the firearm in a position other than the normal operating position i.e. other than with the weapon trigger and grip and sight alignment in a substantially vertical position such that the shooter can obtain a clear shot at a target can operate the firearm while wearing a gas mask to avoid detection etc. by operating the firearm out of position. Yet further the shooter may desire to have a cartridge casing catcher that operates properly when the firearm is fired around the clock i.e. in a normal position and through a full circle of rotation generally along any axis of rotation including when the weapon is upside down for instance when the shooter is firing the weapon as well as performing a rolling maneuver on a surface flipping or twisting in mid air and the like .

The user may wish that the noise and flash that are emitted from the ejection port when the firearm is discharged are reduced or eliminated to reduce or eliminate the likelihood of detection.

The user may wish to reduce or eliminate the noise generated by the firearm operating mechanism especially in the case of semi automatic and full automatic firearms. Such firearm mechanism generated noise is typically not attenuated by conventional firearms accessories of any kind.

While a number of cartridge casings are produced from non magnetically attractive materials such as brass and aluminum cartridge casings are also commonly made of mild steel. The cartridge casings that are made of mild steel are generally attracted i.e. pulled towards and held by a magnet. As such a magnetic material e.g. a permanent magnet with sufficient magnetic force will generally be capable of attracting and holding cartridge casings that are particularly made of mild steel i.e. steel casings and cartridge casings that are generally made from any ferromagnetic or other magnetically attracted material. The present invention may be advantageously implemented in connection with cartridge casings that are generally made from such magnetically attracted material.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved spent cartridge casing catcher having acoustical tuning for noise reduction. The spent cartridge casing catcher implemented in connection with the present invention is generally used in combination with a firearm. The spent cartridge casing catcher implemented in connection with the present invention is generally mounted i.e. fastened fixed attached etc. adjacent to and covering i.e. over in communication with etc. an ejection port of a semi automatic or full automatic firearm.

In one example the cartridge casing catcher implemented in connection with the present invention may be advantageously mounted to the firearm via an apparatus similar to the mounting shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 166 333 to Kratzer hereinafter Kratzer 333 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety on FIG. 4 of Kratzer 333. In other examples the spent cartridge casings catcher of the present invention may be mounted to a firearm via clamping apparatuses similar to the mountings shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 430 820 to Marsh and U.S. Pat. No. 5 651 208 to Benson which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety on FIGS. 1 and 3 of Marsh 820 and FIG. 7 of Benson 208 respectively. However the cartridge casing catcher implemented in connection with the present invention may be mounted to the firearm where implemented via any appropriate apparatus as is well known in the art to meet the design criteria of a particular application. As such for clarity of description the firearm and the mounting apparatus generally implemented in connection with present invention are not illustrated herein.

The present invention is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 946 248 filed Sep. 21 2004 now U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0188599 A1 published Sep. 1 2005 hereinafter USPubApp 599 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 674 599 filed Oct. 1 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 836 991 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. As such an understanding of all of the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 6 836 991 and USPubApp 599 is assumed herein.

Referring to of the present invention a diagram illustrating a system i.e. apparatus assembly catcher receptacle etc. in accordance with the present invention is shown. A cut out sectional view at line is described below in connection with . The apparatus generally comprises an acoustically tuned multi position spent cartridge casing catcher. In one example the catcher generally comprises a generally hollow housing i.e. case box container etc. and a lip area . In one example the housing may be implemented having walls configured as a box on box structure or shape i.e. an upper box and a lower box as illustrated. However the housing may be implemented having any appropriate shape to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The apparatus is generally implemented i.e. used in combination i.e. in connection with a firearm. The upper box is generally attached to a firearm not shown via an attachment mechanism not shown such that an opening into the housing communicates with the ejection port of the firearm and receives spent or expended cartridges i.e. empty shells casings etc. as the shells are ejected from the firearm and the blast that is emitted from the ejection port when the firearm is discharged i.e. when the firearm is fired . The lower box may comprise fixed walls a lid having a hinge and an opposing latch not shown that may provide for access to the interior of the shell catcher for example for emptying spent cartridges from the catcher .

The housing may be implemented having a structure similar to the spent firearm cartridge catcher taught by USPubApp 599. However the housing of the present invention may be implemented without the acoustic foam disclosed in USPubApp 599. Further the case may be implemented having walls of any appropriate general outside shape and configuration to meet the design criteria of a particular application. The housing is generally produced i.e. manufactured built made implemented etc. using a substantially rigid material. Example materials for implementation of the case may include steel aluminum rigid plastic fiber reinforced plastic loaded e.g. filled with a dense material such as lead clay or the like plastic and the like.

Further referring to USPubApp 599 on FIG. 6 and in the corresponding description in para. 0052 the substantially rigid wall 102 is shown having a convoluted shape that forms the wedges 120 that include the retainers 124 fixed thereon. In particular a hollow in the wall 102 is shown in connection with the deflector 120 . Yet further referring to USPubApp 599 on FIG. 7 and in the corresponding para. 0053 the wedges 120 are shown having the retainers 124 integrated into the respective rear surfaces 162 . The present invention generally comprises an implementation of the wall 102 including the deflectors 120 formed in connection with respective hollows in the wall 102 and having the retainers 124 fixed thereon or integrated into the respective rear surfaces 162. In particular the present invention may advantageously implement the hollow i.e. void cavity etc. provided by the deflector 120 in the wall 102 to form at least one acoustic tuner that reduces or eliminates noise generated by the blast from the ejection port and mechanical noise generated by the firearm actuation during normal firing operation.

In one example the spent casing catcher taught by USPubApp 599 implements the deflectors 120 using acoustic foam see for example USPubApp 599 on FIGS. 2 4 and respective para. 0031 0033 . In some implementations e.g. severe use environments acoustic foam may be eroded and thus have reduced effectiveness due to the firearm port blast. As such it may be desirable to implement a firearm spent casing catcher having walls that are made from material that is generally not eroded by the firearm ejection port blast while maintaining reduction of noise that is generated by the firearm ejection port blast and the firearm mechanism actuation. The apparatus 100 of the present invention may provide such a firearm spent casing catcher. Further as the present invention comprises acoustic noise reduction via acoustic tuners a broader range of noise frequencies i.e. a wider acoustic spectrum may be attenuated and a greater amount of attenuation may be achieved by the present invention than is provided by acoustic foam.

The wedges or deflectors are generally configured to deflect ejected cartridge casings away from the opening i.e. away from the ejection port of the firearm and towards the lower box region of the housing near the lid as the firearm where the catcher is implemented or installed is discharged. The cartridge casings are generally made from magnetically attracted material e.g. mild steel a combination of mild steel and brass e.g. brass head and steel body steel head and brass body and the like . The retainers generally magnetically attract and hold the ejected cartridge casings .

Referring to the of the present invention diagrams illustrating cross sectional views of acoustic tuners that may be implemented in connection with the present invention are shown. The principles of acoustics in general and acoustic tuners in particular are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art e.g. the acoustic and sound wave property principles as generally taught in introductory college physics and will only be described briefly herein to provide a context for the description of the acoustic tuner structures of the present invention.

Referring to a diagram illustrating some example alternative openings is shown. While the opening is shown as a simple hole in it is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art that more complex openings such as multiple round holes e.g. holes holes having any appropriate shape e.g. square openings and triangular openings openings covered by a screen openings with relatively rough i.e. not smooth such that turbulence is induced not shown edges and the like may be implemented in connection with the acoustic tuners and . Such alternative opening implementations may provide tuner openings that may be sized to prevent entry and entrapment of objects e.g. spent firearm cartridge casings in the tuners and may also provide acoustic resistance to the flow of the sound wave that impinges on the tuner opening . Such acoustic resistance generally provides tuning and hence noise reduction that is over a broader range of frequencies while at a reduced level when compared to a single smooth hole opening.

Referring to diagrams illustrating sectional views taken at line of of example alternatives of the wedges e.g. wedges and the like are shown. Each of the wedges may have a face that is oriented toward the opening also referred to as a front face hereinafter and a face that is oriented away from the opening also referred to as a rear face hereinafter . The front face is generally slanted away from the opening such that the casings are deflected away from the opening and generally toward the lid

The rear face is generally perpendicular the planar surface of the housing or slanted away from the opening such that the casings are resisted from traveling moving bouncing flying etc. back toward the opening even when bouncing inside the housing . Each of the deflectors generally has the respective front face that is slanted away from the opening e.g. at an angle FA such that the deflectors are capable of deflecting the casings away from the opening and the respective rear face that is perpendicular to the planar surface of the housing or slanted away from the opening e.g. at an angle RA.

In one example the deflectors may be substantially adjacent e.g. the deflectors and and the deflectors and . In another example e.g. the deflectors and the deflectors may be separated by a gap .

The retainers are generally implemented using a permanent magnet material i.e. a material that is substantially permanently magnetic . The retainers may comprise at least one of steel a Strontium and Barium ferrite Samarium Cobalt Neodymium Iron Boron other permanently magnetic rare earth alloys and Alnico i.e. Aluminum Nickel Cobalt alloy . However the retainers may be implemented using any appropriate permanently magnet material having a magnetic field strength sufficient to hold the expended magnetically attracted e.g. steel casings to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The present invention generally implements the retainers having a maximum magnetic energy product value i.e. level amount etc. that is sufficient to capture and retain catch and hold for a particular application expended shell casings that are magnetically attracted. The deflectors are generally capable of deflecting the cartridge casings away from the opening and the retainers at the rear face of the deflectors are generally capable of retaining the shell casings when the catcher is in i.e. oriented held placed disposed etc. in any position and the firearm where the apparatus is installed is operated in any position.

The retainers may be substantially rectangular shaped. In one example the retainers may be shaped and sized such that one or more of the retainers are fixed i.e. fastened adhered affixed mounted etc. to respective rear faces i.e. fixed to faces on the sides of deflectors not facing the opening and substantially cover the respective surface e.g. the respective retainers that are implemented in connection with the deflectors . In another example the retainers may be shaped and sized to be mounted to the gap between respective wedges e.g. the retainer implemented in the space between the wedge and the wedge . In yet another example see for example the retainers may be embedded into or integrated within the wall .

The wedge may have a height W that is generally equal to or greater than the diameter of the cartridge casing that is captured or caught by the catcher . However the height W may be implemented as any appropriate value i.e. amount distance etc. to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The front face is generally at an angle e.g. FA relative to a line or plane e.g. P that is perpendicular to the surface of the housing . The angle FA is generally in a range of 30 degrees to 75 degrees and preferably in a range of 45 degrees to 60 degrees. The rear face is generally at an angle e.g. RA relative to line or plane P. The angle RA is generally in a range of 0 degrees to 35 degrees and preferably in a range of 0 degrees to 25 degrees. The angle RA is generally less than the angle FA. However the angles FA and RA may be implemented at any appropriate angles to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

A void i.e. cavity chamber etc. e.g. voids is generally formed between the respective faces and of the deflectors and the respective wall . Further at least one opening i.e. hole aperture etc. may be implemented to provide fluid communication between the inside of the casing catcher and the void . The configuration of the void and the opening is generally implemented as an acoustic tuner structure e.g. tuners such as a quarter wave tuner a Quincke tuner and a Helmholtz resonator similar to the acoustic tuners illustrated in respectively. The acoustic tuner structure of the present invention is generally tuned to provide reduction of noise emitted at the firearm ejection port and mechanical noise generated by the operation of the firearm mechanism. Support for the lower front edge of the wedges may be provided by one or more supports that are generally disposed from the lower front edge of the respective deflector and the wall .

The holes may be implemented similar to the holes of . The apertures may be implemented having a size small enough such that the cartridge casings are not able to enter the void for the design criteria of a particular application. The opening may be implemented having any appropriate shape e.g. shapes such as round square triangular or as screen as shown in to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

To provide sufficient volume for the void or to provide an acoustic path or acoustic tuning length two or more of the deflectors may be separated from the wall via a gap e.g. G . The gap G generally provides fluid communication such that an adequate acoustic length mass or compliance is formed for the respective acoustic tuner structure.

Referring to diagrams illustrating views of the rear faces of the wedges and respectively are shown. The illustrate example placement of the holes . The placement of the holes in may be advantageously implemented in connection with quarter wave tuner and Helmholtz resonator acoustic tuner structures i.e. various implementations of the tuner . The placement of the holes and in may be advantageously implemented in connection with a Quincke tuner acoustic tuning structure.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a sectional view taken at the line of is shown. The legs may provide physical support such that the housing may be physically robust for severe operating conditions as may be encountered during military usage. The passages i.e. channels ports openings holes apertures etc. resulting from the implementation of the legs may be implemented in one example as openings for respective acoustic tuning structures and in another example to provide fluid communication such that sufficient acoustic volume and length for tuning path tuning length or tuning compliance is formed.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a top view of portion of is shown. In particular the openings implemented in the gap between the deflectors and are shown.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a top sectional view of one example of an acoustic tuner of the present invention is shown. In one example the acoustic tuner may be implemented as a quarter wave tuner having an opening and an overall acoustic quarter wave tuning length provided by the length of the void plus the length of the void as acoustically coupled via the hole . While only two of the voids are illustrated as serially coupled to provide an acoustic length as many of the voids may be fluidly coupled to provide an appropriate acoustic length to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a top sectional view of one example of an acoustic tuner of the present invention is shown. In one example the acoustic tuner may be implemented as a Quincke tuner. The void may be implemented as having the short tuning length e.g. the acoustic length between the holes . The void may be acoustically isolated and thus may not form a part of the tuner structure . The acoustic length of the path between the holes including the length of the void may be implemented as the long acoustic tuning length of the Quincke tuner

Referring to a diagram illustrating a top sectional view of another example of an acoustic tuner of the present invention is shown. In one example the acoustic tuner may be implemented as a Helmholtz resonator tuner acoustic structure. The acoustic path implemented via the opening the opening and the opening may be implemented as an acoustic mass. The combination of the voids and as implemented via the openings and may be implemented as the respective acoustic compliance of the Helmholtz tuner of the present invention.

The seal generally comprises a resilient compliant material e.g. vinyl butyl neoprene etc. in a solid gel sac closed cell foam skin covered foam or other appropriate configuration . The seal is generally fastened to the edge of the housing and liner that abut the ejection port region of the firearm. While the housing and the seal are shown having a substantially flat surface that contacts the firearm where the present invention is implemented the housing at the opening and the seal are generally shaped to substantially match an interfacing surface of the firearm where the catcher is implemented.

When the catcher is mounted to the firearm the seal generally provides a substantial barrier to noise and flash e.g. a substantially air tight or hermetic seal that is generated during the ejection of a spent cartridge. The seal may also provide mechanical damping to vibration of the firearm where the catcher is implemented such that noise generated by the firearm action operation as well as the discharge noise at the ejection port may be reduced or eliminated. The seal may be configured to provide a substantially air tight path between the ejection port and the opening .

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved multi position cartridge casing catcher. Such an improved cartridge casing catcher may provide reduced or eliminated noise and flash from a firearm ejection port and so reduce or eliminate jamming caused by the spent cartridges bouncing back reduced or eliminated rattle of collected shell casings and reduced or eliminated bouncing of the spent cartridges back into the firearm ejection port as the firearm is operated in any position when compared to conventional approaches.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

