---

title: Open Yaggi antenna array
abstract: An open Yaggi antenna array is disclosed wherein the reflector element and parasitic director elements of the antenna array are opened in line with the feed point of the driven element so that the reflector and director elements do not cause a shunting effect on the driven element of the antenna.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07629938&OS=07629938&RS=07629938
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07629938
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060724
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon or therefore.

The invention relates to antennas and is directed more particularly to a design for an open Yaggi antenna array.

Most prior art Yaggi antennas consist of a driven element and two or more non driven elements. The driven element is often a half wave dipole. It is arranged in front of and parallel to a non driven element that serves as a reflector. The driven element is also arranged behind and parallel to an array of one or more other parasitic elements that serve as directors. The reflector reflects radiation from the dipole back toward the dipole. The directors narrow the dipole radiation along the director side of the dipole. Both the driven and non driven elements are all parallel on an axis along the same spatial plane.

The resultant radiation pattern of the Yaggi antenna as described above is a relatively narrow unidirectional beam along the direction of the director elements away from the dipole. The narrow beam effect produced by the reflector and directors occurs over approximately a 15 bandwidth about the half wavelength frequency of the dipole.

There are certain problems with the Yaggi antenna as described above. In particular the reflector and directors have various undesirable effects on the original impedance of the dipole. The reflector and directors cause a shunting effect on the dipole resulting in reduced antenna impedance in the region where the antenna operates at or near 0.5 wavelengths resonance . In addition the reflector and directors also cause a decrease in the impedance bandwidth of the antenna. Since the directors are parasitic elements they introduce undesirable resonance anti resonance loops in the original impedance of the dipole. What is needed therefore is a Yaggi antenna array design that avoids the shunting effect caused by the reflector element and parasitic director elements on the driven element.

The object of the present invention is therefore to provide an antenna with the performance of a traditional Yaggi array antenna but without any reduced antenna impedance and decreased bandwidth

With the above and other objects in view a feature of the present invention is an open Yaggi array antenna wherein the non driven elements reflector and directors are opened in line with the feed point of the driven element dipole so that they do not shunt the driven element of the antenna. In this way the parasitic elements should only add the resonance anti resonance loops in the dipole impedance. The basic impedance of the dipole should remain the same.

The above and other features of the invention including various novel details of construction and combinations of parts will now be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings and pointed out in the claims. It will be understood that the particular assembly embodying the invention is shown by way of illustration only and not as a limitation of the invention. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring to there is shown an assembly for a traditional prior art Yaggi antenna . Yaggi antenna includes a driven element which is a 0.5 wavelengths dipole at 1 GHz positioned vertically. The driven element is a conducting rod having a radius of 0.0025 wavelengths and having a feed point at the center. Yaggi antenna also includes a reflector element having a length of 0.515 wavelengths positioned parallel to the driven element and several director elements each having a length of 0.43 wavelengths positioned parallel to and on an opposite side of the driven element . All of the antenna elements are arranged on the same plane of the antenna axis an equal distance apart 0.1 wavelengths at 1 GHz. Whereas this prior art Yaggi antenna has many useful attributes one drawback of the antenna is that the non driven elements the reflector and the directors create a shunting effect on the driven element the dipole resulting in reduced antenna impedance most importantly in the region where the antenna operates at or near 0.5 wavelengths resonance.

Referring to there is shown a first embodiment of the present invention an open Yaggi antenna . The open Yaggi antenna also includes a driven element which is a dipole having a feed point a two piece reflector element and one or more two piece director elements all arranged on the same plane of the antenna axis an equal distance apart. For purposes of illustration the open Yaggi antenna has three director elements however the invention is not limited to this number. The open Yaggi antenna is designed to avoid the shunting effects of the non driven elements on the dipole by opening up the reflector element and the director elements in line with the feed point of the dipole thereby creating a gap along the axis of the feed point .

By arranging the reflector element and parasitic director elements with a gap in line with the dipole feed point the reflector element and director elements will only add to the resonance anti resonance loops in the dipole impedance. The basic impedance of the dipole will remain the same. To maintain the reflective properties of the reflector element and the directive properties of the director elements both types of parasitic elements are designed in two separate parts of equal length. The combined length of each two piece parasitic element is twice the length of the single piece element of the prior art Yaggi antenna as illustrated in . For example reflector element is a combination of elements and whose combined length is equal to twice that of reflector element .

In comparison to Yaggi antenna the open Yaggi antenna has the following dimensions. The driven element dipole is positioned vertically. The maximum length of the dipole is 2.0 wavelengths at 2 GHz or 1.0 wavelengths at 1 GHz. The diameter of the dipole is 0.005 wavelengths at 1 GHz. Each of the two piece non driven elements is approximately the same size as the driven element. The gap between the two pieces of each non driven element is 0.025 wavelengths at 1 GHz. All of the open Yaggi antenna elements are arranged on the same plane of the antenna axis an equal distance apart 0.1 wavelengths at 1 GHz.

Referring to it can be seen from the illustrated radiation pattern plot that the open Yaggi antenna patterns near 1 wavelength at 1 GHz behave similarly to the Yaggi antenna . Unidirectional patterns exist over a small bandwidth. Referring to it can be seen from the illustrated impedance plots that the basic dipole impedance locus remains the same with the addition of reflectors and directors. Only the parasitic resonance anti resonance loops are added. The desired objective of eliminating the shunting effects of the reflectors and directors is achieved.

One concern with this embodiment of the open Yaggi is that the desired patterns where the parasitic resonance anti resonance loops occur in the area where the reflector and directors are near 0.5 wavelengths long occur where the impedance of the dipole is large at a one wavelength anti resonance. Normally a dipole is used where its impedance is at 0.5 wavelengths resonance where its impedance is near a usable 50 ohms. With this in mind a second embodiment of open Yaggi antenna is presented herein.

Referring to there is shown a second embodiment of the present invention an open Yaggi antenna . The open Yaggi antenna also includes a driven element which is a dipole having a feed point a two piece reflector element and one or more two piece director elements all arranged on the same plane of the antenna axis an equal distance apart. For purposes of illustration the open Yaggi antenna has three director elements however the invention is not limited to this number. The open Yaggi antenna is also designed to avoid the shunting effects of the parasitic elements on the dipole by opening up the reflector element and the director elements in line with the feed point of the dipole thereby creating a gap along the axis of the feed point . To maintain the reflective properties of the reflector element and the directive properties of the director elements both types of elements are designed in two separate parts of equal length. The combined length of each two piece reflector or director element is twice the length of the single piece element of the prior art Yaggi antenna as illustrated in . For example reflector element is a combination of elements and whose combined length is equal to twice the length of reflector element .

In comparison to open yaggi antenna the open yaggi antenna has the following dimensions. The driven element dipole is positioned vertically. One difference however is that the length of the driven element has been reduced in length from 1.0 wavelengths at 1 GHz to 0.5 wavelengths at 1 GHz. Using this design the dipole can now be at 0.5 wavelengths resonance when the reflector and directors are near 0.5 wavelengths long.

Referring to it can be seen from the illustrated radiation pattern plot that the open Yaggi antenna patterns near 1 wavelength at 1 GHz behave similarly to the Yaggi antenna . Unidirectional patterns exist over a small bandwidth.

Referring to the impedance plots illustrate the desired unidirectional patterns about 0.5 wavelengths at 1 GHz occur with an impedance near the original 0.5 wavelength resonance impedance of the dipole. Only resonance anti resonance loops are added to the impedance locus.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

