---

title: Software program and method for reducing misdirected calls to a select destination
abstract: A method and software application reduce the occurrence of misdirected calls to one or more select destinations The software application resides on a user's phone and “listens” to phone numbers dialed by a user to determine if the user has dialed a phone number for one of such select destinations. In response to the user dialing one of such phone numbers, the software application on the phone effectively “intercepts” the call and enables the phone to provide the user with a list of destination options prior to placing the call to the dialed phone number. In one embodiment, the list is provided in audio form by playing a voice prompt with the list, as well as in visual form by displaying the list in the user interface of the user's phone. The list helps disambiguate the intent of the user in dialing the phone number by asking the user to either (i) confirm he wants the destination associated with the phone number or (ii) select another option. In one embodiment, if the user does not select a choice after a period of time, the call is placed to the destination associated with the originally dialed phone number.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07792266&OS=07792266&RS=07792266
owner: Bevocal LLC
number: 07792266
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
This invention relates generally to software applications on digital phones and more specifically to a software application that reduces the occurrence of misdirected calls to one or more select destinations.

Some large companies provide customers with multiple phone numbers which can be used to contact the company where each phone number is meant to serve a different purpose. For example a wireless communication company may have one phone number for customer service a second phone number for technical assistance and a third phone number for an automated self service store through which a user can purchase products and services.

In such cases users sometimes do not pay attention to the purpose that a phone number serves and they will dial one number when they should instead dial another number. Such misdirected calls can increase consumer frustration and waste unnecessary operator and IVR system resources. Therefore there is a desire to reduce such misdirected calls.

The present invention provides a method and software application that reduces the occurrence of misdirected calls to one or more select destinations. The software application resides on a user s phone and listens to phone numbers dialed by a user to determine if the user has dialed a phone number for one of such select destinations. In response to the user dialing one of such phone numbers the software application on the phone effectively intercepts the call and enables the phone to provide the user with a list of destination options prior to placing the call to the dialed phone number. In one embodiment the list of destination options is presented in both audio and visual form by playing a voice prompt with the list and by displaying the list in the user interface of the phone. Providing the user with a list of destination options helps disambiguate the intent of the user in dialing the phone number by asking the user to either i confirm he wants the destination associated with the phone number or ii select another option. In one embodiment if the user does not select a choice after a period of time the call is placed to the destination associated with the originally dialed phone number.

In the preferred embodiment the destination associated with the phone number originally dialed is the first option in the list. The other options in the list can be common destinations often desired by users when dialing the original number.

The phone or more specifically software on the phone listens to phone numbers dialed by a user on the phone step . When a user dials a phone number software on the phone determines whether the dialed phone number is the phone number for the select destination step . If the dialed phone number is not the phone number for the select destination the phone places a call to the dialed phone number. If the dialed phone number is the phone number associated with the select destination the phone provides the user with a list of destination options prior to placing the call to the select destination where the list includes the select destination and at least one alternate destination step . In one embodiment at this stage the user may think the phone call has already been placed but software on the phone is just simulating the call experience until the user actually chooses a destination option or a certain amount of time passes see description corresponding to for an example of simulating the call experience . In response to the user choosing the select destination from the list the phone places the call to the select destination step . In response to the user choosing an alternate destination the phone places a call to the alternate destination instead of to the select destination step . In one embodiment if the user does not select an option from the list after a period of time the call is automatically placed to the select destination step .

In one embodiment listening to a phone number involves 1 monitoring the sequence of keystrokes entered by a user prior to a user hitting the send call dial or other button associated with dialing a call and or 2 monitoring phone numbers entered through voice activated dialing such as when a user says voice mail to dial the phone number for voice mail . A phone number is not limited to a seven or ten digit phone number for the purposes of this invention. Rather it can be any sequence of numbers or characters that can be used to generate an outbound call. For example shortcut phone numbers such as 411 or 669 can be phone numbers for the purposes of this invention. The above method is not limited to reducing misdirected calls to a single phone number as the phone can listen for a number of phone numbers.

In the preferred embodiment the list of destination options is a ranked list in order of the most likely destinations. In most cases the most likely destination is the destination associated with the phone number originally dialed by the user. The other destination options can be other destinations often desired by users when they dial the phone number associated with the select destination. For example if a wireless telecommunication company finds that a lot of users dial sales when they really want technical assistance then misdirected calls to sales can be reduced by listening for the sales phone number on the wireless phone and when a user dial the sales phone number sales can be the first item on the ranked list and technical assistance can be the second item on the ranked list. The destinations on the list can be displayed as text e.g. sales technical assistance and or phone numbers e.g. 800 555 1234 .

In one embodiment if the select destination is an interactive voice response IVR system then the alternate destination options can include a different IVR system or a different entry point to the same IVR system.

The alternate destination options can be pre programmed into the phone or can be generated dynamically based on information in the phone information transmitted to the phone via an external system either at the time the user makes a call or earlier or information contained in a backend database where such information may be retrieved at the time the user makes a call or earlier .

In the preferred embodiment the list of destination options is provided in both audio and visual form. The list is provided in audio form by playing a voice prompt that includes the list. Playing a voice prompt minimizes the disruption of the normal call experience. The list is provided in visual form by displaying the list in the phone user interface.

Such voice prompt makes the user think that he has actually called into the voice store. However in this example the software is just simulating the experience of calling into the voice store by playing the voice prompt. If the user selects Voice Store or stays on line the phone places the call to the voice store. In one embodiment where the voice store is an IVR system the call may be placed to an entry point in the IVR that does not include a welcome greeting as the user has already heard a welcome greeting.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a phone will include additional functionality not represented by the above modules. However such functionality is well known in the art and a discussion of such functionality is not relevant for an understanding of the invention described herein. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many ways to implement the present invention and the software implementation described herein with respect to is just one example of an implementation.

The keystroke event dispatcher buffers keystrokes entered by the phone user and provides such keystrokes to other applicable applications on the phone that register for keystroke events. The dialer application registers for keystroke events and dials phone numbers entered by the user unless such phone numbers are first consumed by the interceptor application . The user interface application enables the display of information in the user interface on the phone.

The interceptor application and router applications are the modules that perform the functions described with respect to . The interceptor application registers for keystroke events as a higher priority application than the dialer module and listens for certain phone numbers. The interceptor application communicates with the keystroke event dispatcher via an applicable event listener application programming interface API .

The router application is launched by the interceptor application in response to the user dialing a phone number for which the interceptor application is listening. The router application provides the user with the list of destination options associated with such phone number. When a destination option is chosen the router application dials the phone number associated with the chosen destination.

If the phone has voice activated dialing the interceptor application can also receive voice activated dial events and launch the router application when a voice activated dial command corresponds a phone number for which the interceptor application is listening.

When launched the router application then provides the user with destination options associated with the phone number dialed by the user step . In one embodiment this involves playing a voice prompt with the destination options and displaying the destination options in the phone user interface.

If the user stays on line and does not make a selection after a period of time the router application makes the call to the phone number originally dialed by the user step . In one embodiment the router application uses an applicable phone call API to make the call.

If the user makes a selection from the list of destination options the router application maps the selection to a phone number and then makes a call to such phone number which can be the originally dialed phone number if the user selected the destination associated with such phone number step .

The invention is in no way limited to the above requirements. They merely reflect one way in which to implement the invention.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Accordingly the above disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative and not limiting of the invention.

