---

title: Method and system for providing focused search results by excluding categories
abstract: A method of providing search results includes performing a search in response to a search request, providing a first list of results responsive to the search request, providing a list of selectable terms based on content included in the first list of results, receiving a user-selected term from the list of selectable terms, and providing a second list of results. The second list of results excludes results having content related to the user-selected term.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07899818&OS=07899818&RS=07899818
owner: A9.Com, Inc.
number: 07899818
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060329
---
A user desiring to access information available over a network such as the Internet may typically begin the process by entering one or more search terms such as keywords in a search engine available at a search engine website. The search engine uses the keywords to generate a listing of search results usually in the form of one or more search results web pages where each search result may be associated with a web site or web page content relevant to or otherwise associated with the keywords. For example if a visitor to a search engine website enters the term flowers web pages that may be relevant to flowers may be listed on the search results page.

The search results listing is often quite large and may include multiple pages of search results where each page includes some portion of the search results. For example a first web page may be used to display the first ten search results a second web page may be used to display the second ten search results etc. Because of the large number of search results and the correspondingly large number of pages displaying those search results a user may have difficulty finding websites of interest to the user particularly if the relevant website is displayed on a fourth fifth or even later page of search results.

In order to assist users in reviewing the search results listing search engines often use an automated ranking algorithm to rank the search results based on relevancy. The relevance of each search result is generally determined based on a number of factors including the content or subject matter of the web page the number of other web pages having links to that web page etc. However determining the relevancy of a particular web page to a keyword search is an inherently difficult task and in some situations the automated ranking algorithm may not be effective in directing the user to the web pages containing the desired information.

For example if a user enters a search term that is widely used in a variety of unrelated general contexts e.g. the term eagle may generally refer to the bird as well as to one or more otherwise unrelated products persons sports teams or other organizations adopting the name Eagle several unrelated yet highly or even equally relevant web pages may be identified by the search engine. Moreover even if the user enters a search term that is typically used in a single general context e.g. San Francisco typically refers to the city in general several unrelated yet highly or even equally relevant web pages may be identified by the search engine within that context e.g. web pages related to one more locations or entities within San Francisco . In these situations the user may be faced with having to navigate through a large number of unrelated web page listings to find those search results that are the most relevant. It would be beneficial to provide a method and system for providing search results that enables a user to more efficiently navigate through a search results listing eliminate less relevant search results and perform a more focused search.

One embodiment relates to a method of providing search results. The method includes performing a search in response to a search request providing a first list of results responsive to the search request providing a list of selectable terms based on content included in the first list of results receiving a user selected term from the list of selectable terms and providing a second list of results. The second list of results excludes results having content related to the user selected term.

Another embodiment relates to a system for providing search results. The system includes a search engine configured to perform a search based on a keyword and to retrieve content included in results associated with the keyword. The system also includes a search results analysis engine configured to provide a first list of results associated with the keyword based on the search to provide a list of selectable terms based on the content included in the web pages in the first list of results to receive a user selected term from the list of selectable terms and to provide a second list of results. The second list of results excludes results having content related to the user selected term.

Another embodiment relates to a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface includes memory including program logic configured to generate a first display screen. The first display screen includes a first list of results associated with a keyword based on a keyword search and a list of selectable terms based on content included in the first list of results. The first display screen is configured to receive a user selected term from the list of selectable terms. The program logic is also configured to generate a second display screen in response to receiving the user selected term from the list of selectable terms. The second display screen includes a second list of results. The second list of results excludes results from the first list of results having content related to the user selected term.

Another embodiment relates to a method of providing search results. The method includes receiving a keyword as part of a search request from a user computer performing a search based on the keyword using a search engine retrieving content of results of the search including the keyword determining a first list of results including the keyword in the retrieved content providing a list of selectable terms based on the content retrieved for the results in the first list of results receiving a user selected term from the list of selectable terms and providing a second list of results. The second list of results includes results having content excluding the first user selected term.

Another embodiment relates to a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface includes memory including program logic configured to generated a search results screen. The search results screen includes a list of search results associated with a keyword based on a keyword search. The search results in the list of search results are ranked based on relevance to the keyword. The search results screen also includes a search results index configured to facilitate listing the search results based on terms included in content associated with each of the search results. The search results screen is configured to receive a user selected term from the search results index.

In particular system is configured to provide focused search results to a visitor in response to a search request from visitor . For example visitor may submit a search term such as a keyword to system . The keyword may be a term widely used in a variety of unrelated general contexts or a term that is typically used in a single general context but having several unrelated topics within that context. System is configured to enable visitor to more efficiently navigate through a large number of search results many of which may be unrelated to each other or less relevant than others. System is configured to provide visitor with a list of terms that may be used as for example a search results map index or table of contents to enable visitor to eliminate less relevant search results and perform a more focused search to identify the more relevant results.

Search engine service may include a search engine a search results analysis engine and a database . According to other exemplary embodiments one or more of these components may be provided as separate entities. For example search results analysis engine and a database may be integrated and search engine may be provided by a separate entity such that search results analysis engine and a database are provided as an application programming interface API . It should also be understood that while many of the embodiments are described herein in the context of searching web pages over a network such as the Internet other types of searchable content and systems are contemplated as well. For example according to an exemplary embodiment search engine service may be configured to search any type of electronic material. In this embodiment search engine service may be provided as part of an API to enable searching any type of electronic material over a communication network. According to another exemplary embodiment search engine service may be provided as part of an API to enable local searching for electronic documents within a single system.

Search engine may be any program configured to retrieve data files or documents from a database or network such as the Internet based on search terms such as keywords entered by a visitor or other users e.g. user of a search engine website . According to an exemplary embodiment search engine may be a general search engine configured to search for and retrieve documents from the Internet based on keywords submitted by a visitor . In this embodiment search engine may be used by visitors for searching the websites of several different publishers which may provide individual web pages or other documents containing content for a wide variety of subjects. When search engine is provided with one or more keywords submitted by a visitor the results of the search may be provided by search engine in the form of data such as data for one or more search results lists. The search results list may be for example a search results web page which may include a listing of websites and or content based web pages or other documents relevant to or associated with the keywords. The term search result as used herein refers to an individual listing of a website web page or other document contained in a search results list. Search engine may also be configured to retrieve and provide data including excerpts of content from individual web pages or other documents as part of the search results list. According to another exemplary embodiment search engine may be a product search engine associated with a website of a publisher and configured to search for and retrieve documents related to various products or services.

Search results analysis engine is in communication with search engine and may be generally configured to work in conjunction with search engine to provide focused search results to a visitor in response to a search request from visitor . More particularly search results analysis engine may be configured to receive one or more keywords as part of a search request from a visitor and to provide a list of search results associated with the keyword based on search results data from search engine . For example search results analysis engine may receive the keyword tiger from a visitor . In response search results analysis engine may provide a list of search results associated with the keyword tiger. 

The search results list may present the search results in the form of for example a list of hyperlinks or other selectable objects where each hyperlink provides access to a particular search result. Each search result may be listed according to a ranking based on the relevancy of each search result to the submitted keyword. For example the search results list may present the search results in order from most relevant to least relevant. According to various exemplary embodiments the relevance of each search result may be determined using any suitable format or scale as well as using any number of criteria for determining relevance. The search results list may also include excerpts of content retrieved by search engine for each search result.

Search results analysis engine may be configured to request a predetermined number of search results from search engine upon receipt of a search request including a keyword from a visitor as well as to request the searchable content portions of each of the search results. According to an exemplary embodiment search results analysis engine may be configured to request approximately one hundred search results from search engine ranked according to relevance to a keyword submitted by a visitor and also to request the searchable content for each of the 100 results which may be stored in database for analysis.

Search results analysis engine may also be configured to provide a list of selectable terms with the search results list. The list of selectable terms may be based on an analysis of the searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results to identify terms that may be useful in grouping or otherwise determining useful relationships among the search results. According to an exemplary embodiment search results analysis engine is configured to analyze the searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results to identify one or more terms based on such exemplary factors as frequency of use proximity to the submitted keyword prominence of the term e.g. capitalization the context in which the term is used etc. For example if the keyword tiger is submitted as part of a search request search results analysis engine may analyze the searchable content received from search engine and determine that the terms zoo and Tiger Woods are used more frequently than others. Search results analysis engine may then include the terms zoo and Tiger Woods in the list of selectable terms as part of the search results list. Another exemplary technique for identifying useful terms may include using a priori information about a particular search result such a metadata. Another exemplary technique may include using one or more predetermined lists such as where the search request is a commonly used query. In this embodiment usage data may be maintained for commonly used queries to assist in creating and maintaining the predetermined lists. Another exemplary technique may include using linking structures within search results in the search results list to analyze content or metadata referenced by such linking structures.

Search results analysis engine may be further configured to receive a user selection of one or more terms from the list of selectable terms. The user selected terms may be used by visitor as for example a search results map index or table of contents to eliminate less relevant search results from the search results web page and focus on more relevant search results. For example the terms zoo and Tiger Woods may be included among other terms in the list of selectable terms and visitor may desire to eliminate search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods. Visitor may select the term Tiger Woods in a manner indicating that search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods should be eliminated from the search results list. As another example visitor may desire to keep only search results in which the retrieved content includes or is related to the term zoo. Visitor may select the term zoo in a manner indicating that only search results in which the retrieved content includes or is related to the term zoo should be included in the search results list.

According to an exemplary embodiment the degree of relation of content to a term in the list of selectable terms may be based for example on whether the exact term or permutations thereof e.g. plural or possessive usage of the term etc. appear in the content. According to another exemplary embodiment predetermined relationships between the selected term and other types of content may be used to determine the degree of relation of content to a term in the list of selectable terms. For example if the user selects the term Tiger Woods in a manner indicating that search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods should be eliminated from the search results list search results related to golf in general may be excluded as well as those particularly including the term Tiger Woods. According to another exemplary embodiment relationships between particular websites or other sources may be used. For example if a significant amount of content or number of web pages or other documents at a particular web site or other source would be excluded based on a user selection of the term Tiger Woods then content at other websites or sources generally known to be similar to the particular website or source may be excluded as well. According to another exemplary embodiment past user behavior may be used.

Search results analysis engine may be further configured to provide an updated list of search results upon receipt of the user selected terms such that the updated list of search results is a more focused list of search results according to the user selected terms. For example visitor may have selected the term Tiger Woods in a manner indicating that search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods should be eliminated from the search results list. In response search results analysis engine may provide an updated search results list that excludes search results having content including or otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods. As another example visitor may have selected the term zoo in a manner indicating that only search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term zoo should be included in the search results list. In response search results analysis engine may provide an updated search results list that includes search results having content including or otherwise related to the term zoo. 

Search results analysis engine may be further configured to perform a modified search upon request to obtain additional search results based on the initial search request and further based on the user selected terms. For example visitor may have selected the term Tiger Woods in a manner indicating that search results in which the retrieved content includes the term Tiger Woods should be eliminated from the search results list. Upon request from visitor search results analysis engine may provide a new search results list including search results associated with the keyword tiger provided as a keyword in the initial search and excluding the keyword Tiger Woods based on search results data from search engine . As another example visitor may have selected the term zoo in a manner indicating that only search results in which the retrieved content includes the term zoo should be included in the search results list. Upon request from visitor search results analysis engine may provide a new search results list including search results associated with the keywords tiger and zoo based on search results data from search engine .

As with the initial search request search results analysis engine may be configured to request the searchable content portions of each of the search results included in the new search results list. According to an exemplary embodiment search results analysis engine may be configured to provide approximately one hundred search results from search engine ranked according to relevance and also to request the searchable content for each of the 100 results which may be stored in database for analysis.

Search results analysis engine may also be configured to provide a new list of selectable terms with the new search results list based on an analysis of the searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results. The new list of selectable terms may be used as described above to again eliminate less relevant search results and focus on more relevant search results. As may be appreciated search results analysis engine may be configured to facilitate repetition of the process of performing searches and providing lists of selectable terms until search results of the desired focus are achieved.

Search engine service may be configured to perform the above described functionality by providing a graphical user interface. According to an exemplary embodiment search results analysis engine may access web page data and templates from database in order to provide one or more graphical user interface screens. These graphical user interface screens may be configured to facilitate interaction with visitor e.g. via a display keyboard mouse or other user input and output devices to for example present search results lists in the form of search results web pages in a displayable format to visitor including a list of search results and user selectable terms and to receive user selections of terms from the list of user selectable terms.

Screen may also include a list of selectable terms shown in as a Search Results Map. As described above the list of selectable terms may be based on an analysis of searchable content received by search results analysis engine from search engine for each of the search results to identify terms that may be useful in grouping or otherwise determining useful relationships among the search results. shows four terms identified by search results analysis engine that may be used by visitor as for example a search results map index or table of contents to eliminate less relevant search results and identify more relevant results. According to an exemplary embodiment visitor may also manually enter a term in field .

According to an exemplary embodiment one or more selectable objects may be displayed adjacent to each term in list to facilitate selection by visitor . For example illustrates selectable objects in the form of two check boxes adjacent to each term in list to facilitate selection by visitor . To eliminate search results in list for which the retrieved content includes a particular term visitor may select e.g. using a mouse or other user input device the adjacent selectable object in the N column. To specifically include search results in list for which the retrieved content includes a particular term visitor may select the adjacent selectable object in the Y column. For example as shown in visitor has selected selectable object in the N column adjacent to the term Tiger Woods to indicate that search results in which the retrieved content includes the term Tiger Woods should be eliminated from search results list . Visitor has also selected selectable object in the Y column adjacent to the term zoo to indicate that search results in which the retrieved content includes the term zoo should be included in search results list .

According to an exemplary embodiment one or more of the terms selected from list by visitor may also be automatically added to field to facilitate a modified search request to retrieve additional search results. For example as shown in the terms zoo and Tiger Woods have been automatically added to field . The minus sign before the term Tiger Woods indicates that search results in which the retrieved content includes or is otherwise related to the term Tiger Woods are to be excluded. A modified search request including the terms tiger and zoo and exclusive of Tiger Woods may be executed upon request by visitor . Visitor may initiate the modified search by for example selecting a selectable object shown in as a search button in screen .

According to an exemplary embodiment the symbol may be used to represent a hierarchical search structure. Each time the symbol is used between terms a lower or subservient hierarchical level is established for the term to the right of the symbol based on terms to the left. For example the hierarchical search structure tiger zoo Tiger Woods in field may represent a search for the term tiger and that within search results containing the term tiger search results containing the term zoo should be included. Within search results containing the terms tiger and zoo search results containing the term Tiger Woods should be excluded as indicated by the symbol or another suitable indicator . According to another exemplary embodiment the hierarchical search structure may be saved and used again or otherwise entered into field to retrieve search results. In this way the hierarchical search structure may be saved as part of a user history such that the user may return to the same or a somewhat similar search results list. According to another exemplary embodiment multiple terms may be grouped together for inclusion or exclusion in a single hierarchical level. In this embodiment terms in the same hierarchical level may be used to focus the search to include search results containing any one of the terms on that level. For example the hierarchical search structure tiger zoo Tiger Woods in field may represent a search for the term tiger and that within search results containing the term tiger search results containing either the term zoo or the term Tiger Woods should be included. According to another exemplary embodiment terms in the same hierarchical level may be used to focus the search to include only search results containing all of the terms on that level. For example the hierarchical search structure tiger zoo Tiger Woods in field may represent a search for the term tiger and that within search results containing the term tiger only search results containing both the term zoo and the term Tiger Woods should be included.

According to an exemplary embodiment a new list of selectable terms may be obtained for the search results in list based on an analysis of searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results . The new list of selectable terms may be used as described above to again eliminate less relevant search results and focus on more relevant search results. The new list of selectable terms may be obtained upon request by visitor . Visitor may request the new list of selectable search terms by for example selecting a selectable object shown in as an update list button in screen .

The graphical user interface screens and sequence thereof described with respect to are intended as examples only and many variations are possible. For example according to an exemplary embodiment an updated search and list of selectable terms may automatically be generated upon selection of a single term from the list of selectable terms in screen shown in . In this embodiment selecting the term zoo would automatically take the user to screen wherein a new list of search results and selectable terms are provided. According to another exemplary embodiment only the list of selectable terms is provided in screen . In this embodiment selecting the term zoo would automatically take the user to screen wherein only the list of selectable terms is provided. A succession of subsequent additional screens may be provided upon selection of a term from each list of selectable terms until the user is satisfied with the focus of the search as indicated by the current list of selectable terms. The final search results list may then be displayed to the user. In this way streamlined navigation may be provided for users of smaller devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs web enabled phones and e mail devices etc. which may have limited screen sizes. The use of the terms in the list of selectable terms may also facilitate use of alternate user input methods such as voice recognition touch screens etc. making such devices more compelling.

At a step a list of selectable terms based on content included in the first list of results may be provided. The list of selectable terms may be based on an analysis of the searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results to identify terms that may be useful in grouping or otherwise determining useful relationships among the search results. According to an exemplary embodiment search results analysis engine is configured to analyze the searchable content received from search engine for each of the search results to identify one or more terms based on such exemplary factors as frequency of use proximity to the submitted keyword prominence of the term e.g. capitalization the context in which the term is used etc.

At a step a user selected term from the list of selectable terms may be received. The user selected terms may be used to eliminate less relevant search results and focus on more relevant search results. At a step a second search based at least in part on the search request and the user selected term may be performed. At a step a second list of results may be provided. The second list of results excludes results having content including or otherwise related to the user selected term.

Here and throughout terms such as user advertiser publisher visitor and so forth are to be understood in the broadest possible sense. Herein the term user is used generically to refer to advertisers publishers and visitors. By way of illustration and not of limitation an advertiser may be an individual or a commercial government or non profit entity may be directly responsible for placing an advertisement announcement message or the like or may be a broker reseller or intermediary for another s advertisements announcements messages or the like may be advertising for its own products and services or may be advertising on behalf of another may be represented by a human agent or by a web service software agent or other programmatic construct etc. Likewise a publisher is not restricted to persons or entities who purport to be in the on line publishing business or any other kind of publishing business nor to entities who have complete or even primary control over the content of particular websites but rather is used in a more general sense. In the context of Internet based advertising for example publisher includes any person or entity responsible directly or indirectly for putting content on the Internet whether by hosting or sponsoring websites posting pages frames graphics applets blogs audiovisual content etc. on their own or others websites providing web services that can source content for websites or in any other manner. Still further a visitor may be an individual who visits and views or otherwise perceives the content of a web site and pages therein via a web browser or other client software program running on a personal computer wireless handheld device or the like but may also be for example a corporate or other entity whose servers access published web content and advertisements by invoking web services through appropriate APIs a visitor may or may not be the intended or actual end consumer of a product or service that is the subject of an advertisement etc. A potential customer may be an individual who views advertising regardless of the media in which it is published e.g. print television on line etc and may or may not be the intended or actual end consumer of a product or service that is the subject of an advertisement etc. In sum persons of skill in the art will appreciate that a wide variety of actors more than can be conveniently set forth here can play the roles of advertiser publisher and visitor for purposes of the present invention. It will be further appreciated that the same person or entity may be both publisher and advertiser or both publisher and visitor or both advertiser and visitor or even all three depending on the context. In a similar vein and as will be apparent from the foregoing terms such as web page website and so forth are used to give specific illustrative examples of settings in which on line content and advertisements can be presented to and perceived by users. Such examples are not intended to be limiting and persons of skill in the art will appreciate that many other such settings now known or yet to be developed may be suitable to the practice of the present invention in specific embodiments.

It should be noted that although flow charts may be provided herein to show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs. It is to be understood that any method steps as recited herein e.g. in the claims may be performed by a configuration utility e.g. Java based executed by a computing device based on input by a user. Of course according to various alternative embodiments any suitable configuration utility application system computing device etc. may be used to execute implement and or perform method steps as recited in this disclosure including the claims .

The exemplary embodiments are described above with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the present invention. However describing the invention with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations associated with features shown in the drawings. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated machine readable media provide nonvolatile storage of machine executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

