---

title: Selectable output well perforator and method for producing variable hole profiles
abstract: Various shaped charges and methods of operation produce multiple jets in various profiles by employing multiple initiation points to address various earthen formations and producing different types of perforations in well bores. The shaped charge device includes a configuration of components wherein multiple detonation tracks are used to allow selective initiation and operation. Dual or quad initiation may be provided to initiate operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07546806&OS=07546806&RS=07546806
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07546806
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060324
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

To initiate the flow of oil and or other materials in a well a conventional shaped charge warhead or perforator is fired through the well casing the cement sheath and into the earthen formation. A shaped charge device comprises a shaped charge liner backed by high explosives. When the explosives are detonated the shaped charge device forms a high velocity forward moving penetrator or jet that is capable of deeply penetrating the targeted material.

Output of a well is dependent on several factors including the size of the hole made by the perforator the hole shape and the penetration depth. Fracturing fluids are pumped into the hole to fracture the rock formation and special agents in the fluid hold the fractures open to allow flow. Small diameter holes as produced by conventional shaped charges have a tendency to clog with these agents. Well and rock conditions vary at different depths in the same well and in different wells due to geological differences.

A variety of perforators are available for different applications. A disadvantage of conventional perforators is they can only produce one jet profile per design. A single perforator lacks the ability to handle varying well and rock conditions. Most available perforators are designed to produce deep penetration but with a very small diameter hole. To change the jet output and therefore the hole profile a different perforator is required for each desired hole profile.

At present a variety of perforators must be on hand to handle different situations. U.S. Pat. No. 6 925 924 issued on Aug. 9 2005 and is incorporated by reference herein. The 924 patent shows shaped charge perforators with multiple initiation points. These perforators can produce different jets. However each perforator is limited to producing a single jet profile. Thus a need exists for a single perforator that can selectively produce varying jet outputs for different applications.

It is an object of the invention to provide an apparatus and method for selectively producing different types of perforations in well bores.

A first aspect of the invention is a shaped charge comprising a case having an open front end a closed rear end an interior and a longitudinal axis an explosive material disposed in the interior of the case and a liner disposed over the explosive material wherein the case includes a first channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case along the longitudinal axis to an opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material and a pair of second channels the pair of second channels having a common opening on the rear end of the case the common opening being a different opening than the opening for the first channel the pair of second channels ending in a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of openings being disposed on opposite sides of the opening of the first channel.

The shaped charge may further comprise a pair of third channels the pair of third channels having a common opening on the rear end of the case the common opening for the third channels being a different opening than the opening for the first channel and the common opening for the second channels the pair of third channels ending in a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of openings being disposed on opposite sides of the interior case opening of the first channel and further forward than the pair of interior case openings for the second channels.

A second aspect of the invention is a method comprising providing a shaped charge according to the first aspect of the invention and detonating the shaped charge using only one of 1 the opening on the rear end of the case for the first channel 2 the common opening on the rear end of the case for the second channels and 3 the common opening on the rear end of the case for the third channels.

A third aspect of the invention is a shaped charge comprising a case having an open front end a closed rear end an interior and a longitudinal axis an explosive material disposed in the interior of the case and a liner disposed over the explosive material wherein the case includes four channels extending from a common opening on the rear end of the case to four diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material.

The shaped charge may further comprise a fifth channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case to an opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the opening on the rear end of the case being a different opening than the common opening for the four channels the opening in the interior of the case being centered on the longitudinal axis.

A fourth aspect of the invention is a method comprising providing a shaped charge according to the third aspect of the invention and detonating the shaped charge using only one of the common opening on the rear end of the case for the four channels and the opening on the rear end of the case for the fifth channel.

A fifth aspect of the invention is a shaped charge comprising a case having an open front end a closed rear end an interior and a longitudinal axis an explosive material disposed in the interior of the case and a liner disposed over the explosive material wherein the case includes a first channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case along the longitudinal axis to an interior opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material and a pair of second channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed interior openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of diametrically opposed interior openings of the second channels being disposed on opposite sides of the first channel.

The shaped charge may further comprise a pair of third channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed interior openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of diametrically opposed interior openings of the third channels being disposed on opposite sides of the interior opening of the first channel and radially outward from the pair of interior openings of the second channels.

The shaped charge may additionally comprise a pair of fourth channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed interior openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of diametrically opposed interior openings of the fourth channels being disposed on opposite sides of the interior opening of the first channel radially outward from the pair of interior openings of the third channels and axially forward from the pair of interior openings of the third channels.

Advantageously the shaped charge further comprises a pair of fifth channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed interior openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of interior openings for the fifth channels being disposed on opposite sides of the interior opening of the first channel radially outward from the pair of interior openings of the fourth channels and axially forward from the pair of interior openings of the fourth channels.

In one embodiment of the fifth aspect of the invention the shaped charge further comprises a pair of sixth channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed interior openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material the pair of interior openings of the sixth channels being disposed on opposite sides of the interior opening of the first channel offset circumferentially about ninety degrees from the interior openings of the second pair of channels and disposed radially outward from the interior opening of the first channel about a same distance as the interior openings for the second pair of channels.

A sixth aspect of the invention is a method comprising providing the shaped charge of fifth aspect of the invention and detonating the shaped charge using at least one of the first channel the pair of second channels the pair of third channels the pair of fourth channels the pair of fifth channels and the pair of sixth channels. The detonating step may include using only one of the first channel the pair of second channels the pair of third channels the pair of fourth channels the pair of fifth channels and the pairs of second and sixth channels.

A seventh aspect of the invention is a method comprising providing a shaped charge having a case having an open front end a closed rear end an interior and a longitudinal axis an explosive material disposed in the interior of the case and a liner disposed over the explosive material the shaped charge including a plurality of channels formed therein extending from the rear end to the interior adjacent the explosive material and detonating the shaped charge using at least one but not all of the plurality of channels.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Shaped charges that produce a long and narrow jet by axial initiation will produce a fan like jet if two diametrically opposed detonators are initiated along the side of the warhead. As the detonation points are moved forward along the warhead the jet output changes. Single point initiation produces a long thin jet for deep penetration. Moving multiple detonation points slightly forward produces a narrow fan shaped jet followed by a foreshortened round jet. Moving the detonation points even further forward produces a wide fan shaped jet.

The use of four detonation points can produce a variety of effects depending on initiation locations. These locations usually involve a tradeoff between hole depth and hole cross sectional area. The present invention is a selectable output shaped charge perforator that can produce various jet profiles. Thus one perforator may be used to produce jet patterns that can vary depending on well and rock conditions. Multiple sets of dual diametrically opposed detonation points or quad detonation points are included in the shaped charge case to allow for selection of the required jet profile to match required conditions.

Commercial well perforators generally use detonation cord det cord as the initiation mechanism. In the invention multiple detonation tracks are fabricated in the shaped charge case to allow selective initiation by choice of det cord placement or by rotating or indexing the perforator in its holding fixture. Dual two point or quad four point initiation may be accomplished from a common point or from multiple points.

Case includes a first channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case along the longitudinal axis X X to an opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. A pair of second channels have a common opening on the rear end of the case. The common opening is a different opening than the opening for the first channel . The pair of second channels end in a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The pair of openings are disposed on opposite sides of the opening of the first channel . Preferably the pair of openings are about a same distance from the interior case opening for the first channel . More preferably the pair of openings and the interior case opening for the first channel are substantially collinear.

Shaped charge further comprises a pair of third channels . The pair of third channels having a common opening on the rear end of the case . The common opening for the third channels is a different opening than the opening for the first channel and the common opening for the second channels. The pair of third channels end in a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The pair of openings are disposed on opposite sides of the interior case opening of the first channel and located axially further forward than the pair of interior case openings for the second channels . Preferably the pair of interior case openings for the third channels are about a same distance from the interior case opening for the first channel. More preferably the pair of interior case openings for the third channel and the interior case opening for the first channel are substantially collinear.

Case includes four channels extending from a common opening on the rear end of the case to four diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The common opening on the rear end of the case may be centered on the longitudinal axis X X. The four openings in the interior of the case are circumferentially spaced about 90 degrees apart and are equidistant from the longitudinal axis X X.

Case further comprises a fifth channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case to an opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The opening on the rear end of the case is a different opening than the common opening for the four channels . The opening in the interior of the case is centered on the longitudinal axis X X.

In shaped charges and each set of channels begins at a common initiation point on the rear end of the case and then forms single or multiple detonation paths to the main explosive in the case. The channels in the case may be filled with an explosive or detonation cord. The desired jet output is produced by selecting and initiating only one of the openings in the rear of the case. One way to do this is to place det cord over the selected openings. As used herein the rear or rear end of the case is broadly defined as any portion of the case that is to the rear of the open front end. Thus the rear or rear end of the case includes side walls that may be angled horizontal or curved.

In shaped charge det cord placed only on opening produces a conventional axisymmetric jet for deep penetration. Det cord placed only on opening produces a fan shaped jet. Det cord placed only on opening produces a wider fan shaped jet because the interior openings associated with opening are further forward axially than the interior openings associated with opening . In shaped charge det cord placed only on opening produces a conventional axisymmetric jet for deep penetration. Det cord placed only on opening produces a cross shaped or plus sign shaped jet.

Case includes a first channel extending from an opening on the rear end of the case along the longitudinal axis X X to an opening in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. A pair of second channels extend from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The pair of openings are disposed on opposite sides of the opening .

Shaped charge further comprises a pair of third channels extending from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The pair of openings are disposed on opposite sides of the opening radially outward from the pair of openings and axially forward of the openings .

Additional pairs of channels may be added. Each additional pair of channels ends in diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case that are radially outward of the preceding pair of interior openings and located axially further forward than the preceding pair of interior openings. For example a pair of fourth channels extends from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. Openings are disposed on opposite sides of the opening radially outward from the pair of openings and axially forward of the openings .

Similarly a pair of fifth channels extends from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed openings in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. Openings are disposed on opposite sides of the opening radially outward from the openings and axially forward of the openings .

A pair of sixth channels extend from a pair of openings on the rear end of the case to a pair of diametrically opposed openings not shown in the interior of the case adjacent the explosive material. The interior case openings of channels have about the same radial and axial position as openings respectively but are offset circumferentially about ninety degrees from the openings .

It is the location of the interior openings of the various channels that determine where the explosive will be initiated. Therefore the precise location of the openings on the rear of the case and the position of the channels is not as important. Preferably however for ease of construction all the channels are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis X X with the location of the openings on the rear of the case mirroring the location of the openings in the interior of the case.

In shaped charge each channel begins at an initiation point on the rear and of the case and then forms a single path to the main explosive in the case. The channels may be filled with an explosive or detonation cord. The desired jet output is produced by selecting and initiating certain openings in the rear of the case. One way to do this is to place det cord over the selected openings.

In shaped charge det cord placed on opening produces a conventional axisymmetric jet for deep penetration. Det cord placed on openings and or and produces a fan shaped jet. Det cord placed on the four openings and produces a cross shaped or plus sign shaped jet. Det cord placed on openings and produces a wider fan shaped jet than openings and or and because the diametrically opposed interior openings associated with openings and are further forward axially than the diametrically opposed interior openings associated with openings and or and . Likewise det cord place on openings and produces a wider fan shaped jet than openings and and det cord placed on openings and produces a wider fan shaped jet than openings and .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

