---

title: Aerodynamically stable finless projectile
abstract: A finless projectile provides improved ease of use, aerodynamics, muzzle velocity, drag, target, and excursion accuracy, structural integrity, terminal effectiveness and safety, at lower cost. The finless projectile includes a slug, a forward projectile body, an aft projectile body, an obturator, and a pad. The finless projectile is a full bore projectile that defines a hollow core, but does not include a sabot nor does it carry explosives. The finless projectile functions by kinetic energy transfer from the projectile to the target by deforming the target. The center of gravity of the finless projectile is forward of the center of pressure to provide static stability to the finless projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07568433&OS=07568433&RS=07568433
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07568433
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060926
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The present invention generally relates to the field of munitions. More specifically the present invention pertains to a non explosive and aerodynamically stable finless projectile that is launched for explosive ordnance disposal.

Terminal effectiveness is a primary criterion for projectiles. Depending on the function of the projectile the impact velocity at the target primarily generally determines the terminal effectiveness of the projectiles such as fin stabilized sub caliber armor piercing projectiles. The aerodynamic drag and related velocity decay during flight affect the impact velocity. In a conventional fin stabilized projectile a shortening is made of the length of the acceleration transfer interface between sub caliber projectile and discarding sabot. In this particular disclosure the sabot is provided with multiple annular or helical grooves that match those on the sub caliber projectile. Typically the multiple annular rings or helical grooves occupy a substantial portion on the length of the projectile.

The reduction in length of the acceleration transmitting interface permits its location to a position aft of the point of boundary layer transition from laminar to turbulent flow leading to low frictional coefficient of the laminar boundary layer over a large portion of the sub caliber projectile. The resulting reduction in aerodynamic drag is particularly effective for mid caliber projectiles that improve impact velocity. Reference is made for example to U.S. Pat. No. 5 413 049.

Generally conventional projectiles that are provided with sabots create high velocity fragments after launch as the sabots shatter into pieces and the projectile transitions from aft incident to front incident air stream at high velocity. The shattered pieces from the sabot correspond to the original pieces that made up the sabot assembly. In the specific case of a multi piece finned projectile that is fired from a 40 mm De Armer rifle the sabot assembly has 9 pieces. The sabot shatters apart after muzzle launch into 9 or more pieces at high velocity posing a hazard to personnel close to the weapon and potentially increasing collateral damage. The shattering of the sabot after launch also creates an airflow disturbance that degrades the aiming accuracy of the projectile and degrades the muzzle velocity and ultimately the impact velocity.

Moreover the complex assembly of a projectile with a sabot is relatively more costly to fabricate and manufacture. Each component needs to be precisely made since it needs to be assembled with numerous other components in order to minimize asymmetry and distortion for achieve structural integrity.

Thus it is apparent that there exists a need for an improved projectile that presents greater safety than conventional projectiles and that does not cause fragments to be dispersed at high velocity during launch from a weapon. The projectile design should maximize impact velocity terminal effectiveness and range and aiming accuracy and it should further be amenable to low cost mass production. The need for such a projectile has heretofore remained unsatisfied.

The present invention satisfies the foregoing need. While the present invention will be described in relation to a 40 mm De Armer rifle the present projectile can be designed for use in other weapons.

It is a goal of the present invention to provide a non explosive low cost finless projectile that prevents high velocity fragments from being dispersed in the vicinity of the launch weapon.

It is another goal of the present invention to provide an aerodynamically stable projectile with high impact velocity and terminal effectiveness.

It is still another goal of the present invention to provide a versatile non explosive projectile for explosive ordnance disposal.

The foregoing objects and features of the present invention are achieved by a projectile that generally includes a slug a forward projectile body an obturator an aft projectile body and a pad. The slug and both the forward and aft projectile bodies accommodate a hollow core. These components are integrally assembled to form a non explosive and aerodynamically stable finless projectile that is launched for example for explosive ordnance disposal or for breaking open a lock in tactical operations.

The slug of the present system forms part of a finless projectile that has a non homogenous weight distribution with most of the weight of the slug disposed toward the front followed by a hollow core enclosed by the forward and aft projectile bodies and a closed end. Consequently the center of gravity C.G. is frontal to the center of pressure C.P. of the finless projectile. In addition the front portion of the slug includes a bullet shaped tip such that upon impact with a target most of the kinetic energy in the projectile is transferred to the target to accomplish a specific function. In other words little kinetic energy of the projectile is consumed in the deformation of the slug and the projectile upon target impact.

The finless projectile of the present invention differs from a conventional sub caliber projectile in many respects. As an example in contrast to a conventional sub caliber projectile with a sabot the present finless projectile is full bore such that the projectile s cross section approaches that of the launching bore and provides a larger diameter than the conventional sub caliber projectile for the slug at the front. As a result the present slug assumes a substantially bullet shape that minimizes the energy converted from the projectile s kinetic energy to deformation energy on the slug and projectile upon target impact. In other terms more kinetic energy is transmitted to the target with the present finless projectile than with comparable conventional projectiles. Still in other terms the present finless projectile improves terminal effectiveness.

An additional feature of the present finless projectile is the hollow core. The forward and aft projectile bodies that accommodate the hollow core provide for the projectile wall and minimize drag of the projectile while minimizing the weight of the projectile. Consequently most of the weight of the projectile is contributed by the slug at the front portion minimizing the energy converted from the projectile s kinetic energy to deformation energy upon target impact. In other terms more kinetic energy is transmitted from the present finless projectile to the impacted target than with other comparable conventional projectiles.

The slug in the front part of the finless projectile is integrally assembled with the forward projectile body and creates a circumferential shoulder at the junction. This circumferential shoulder provides aerodynamic balance to the projectile in its trajectory after muzzle launch.

The aft projectile body is provided with an obturator that has the largest cross sectional outer diameter of the components of the projectile. When the finless projectile is launched in the barrel the obturator seals the propellant gases in the weapon and prevents them from leaking out of the barrel past the projectile during muzzle launch. The obturator replaces the function of the sabot in the conventional sub caliber projectile.

The aft projectile body of the finless projectile is also provided with a plurality of grooves to induce spin to the projectile once after muzzle launch. The spin enhances the aerodynamic stability of the projectile without the use of fins.

The finless projectile can best be illustrated by viewing together. is an isometric view of a finless projectile of the present invention shown without a sabot. is a cross sectional side view of the finless projectile. The projectile generally includes a slug that is disposed at a front portion or proximal end of the projectile . The projectile further includes a forward projectile body an obturator an aft projectile body and a pad that is located at a distal end of the finless projectile. The projectile includes a hollow core provided for by the slug the forward projectile body and the aft projectile body .

The finless projectile can be fired for example from a 40 mm De Armer rifle for explosive ordnance disposal such as disarming a fuse and breaking open a lock. The center of gravity C.G. of the projectile is positioned forward of a center of pressure C.P. . This configuration provides static stability to the projectile .

In contrast to a projectile with a sabot the finless projectile of the present invention has fewer components can be mass produced at a lower cost and more readily achieves structural integrity in assembly and operation. Since the finless projectile launches without generating high velocity fragments in the region surrounding the muzzle the air flow around the finless projectile presents less disturbance to slow down or change the trajectory of the projectile resulting in higher muzzle velocity improved targeting and excursion accuracy. Importantly the finless projectile reduces collateral damage as it does not generate fragments at launch.

With reference to it illustrates the circular cross sectional shape of the cylindrical finless projectile and the grooves on the aft circumferential flange of the aft projectile body . Both the grooves and the circumferential flange will be described in fuller detail in connection with . A circular pad is located on the distal end of the finless projectile or alternatively on the aft surface of the aft projectile body of the finless projectile . The pad absorbs some of the forces on the finless projectile resulting from the blast in bore.

The slug will now be described in connection with . is an isometric view of the slug from the front of the projectile with a generally converging bullet shape at the tip of the slug . is a side cross sectional view of the slug of illustrating part of the hollow core at the aft end of the slug . The slug is assembled at the front end of the finless projectile and is made of a suitable heavy metal such as stainless steel or a similar material.

The finless projectile and in particular the slug have an aerodynamic shape that minimizes drag with a general bullet shape at the tip of the slug and a cylindrical body that is integrally connected to the tip . The cylindrical body has a uniform outer diameter to facilitate the assembly of the slug with the forward projectile body .

In the exemplary embodiment of the bullet shape tip has a truncated bullet nose or alternatively a blunt nose. The bullet shaped tip of the slug also has a flat rear bottom . The cylindrical body is hollow and defines at least in part the hollow core of the projectile . The blunt nose does not pierce the target upon impact but deforms the target such as a fuse in a weapon.

The weight of the finless projectile is concentrated in the front of the projectile where the flat bottom of the tip of the slug is frontal to the front projectile body. One purpose of the finless projectile is to disarm a target by kinetic energy rather than by explosives. For example in breaking open a door lock in an urban engagement the finless projectile travels a range of about 20 feet and does not induce an explosion minimizing harm to persons behind the door.

The finless projectile has an outer diameter that is full bore and launches without a sabot. Unlike the conventional sub caliber projectile the full bore finless projectile has a cross section that is similar or comparable to that of the launch bore or barrel of the weapon. The slug has an outside diameter that is less than the overall diameter of the projectile for reasons that will be explained later in conjunction with the forward projectile body . The tip of the slug has a blunt bullet shape and accounts for about half the weight of the slug .

In an exemplary embodiment the tip of the slug has a length to lateral diameter at the flat bottom ratio also called an aspect ratio which ratio has a value close to 1. In a specific embodiment of the present invention a significant percentage of the weight of the slug is located at the tip of the slug . The advantages of this tip shape and weight distribution include the transfer of most of the kinetic energy of the finless projectile to the target upon impact as the shape of the slug undergoes little deformation upon target impact and absorbs a small amount of kinetic energy of the projectile . In other terms at typical impact velocity the finless projectile achieves high terminal effectiveness on the target.

The forward projectile body is illustrated in . represents an isometric view and represents a side view of the cylindrical forward projectile body that is provided with a Bourrelet and a hollow core with a front end and an aft end. The front end is adapted to mate with the slug to form an integral assembly. The aft end is adapted to mate with the aft projectile body .

The forward projectile body is preferably made from aluminum or a material that is generally lighter than the material in the slug . The finless projectile has a full bore caliber. Consequently the generally cylindrical and circular cross section shape of the forward projectile body has an outside diameter that is slightly smaller than that of the launch barrel of the weapon. A circumferential band having a slightly larger outside diameter than the rest of the forward projectile body is located near the front of the forward projectile body . The circumferential band is also referred to as a Bourrelet provides a bearing surface at minimal friction between the projectile and the launch barrel or bore of the weapon in order to stabilize the launch.

In the finless projectile the cylindrical forward projectile body includes an inner or interior hollow core as illustrated in . The cylindrical forward projectile body includes a front portion with the smallest inner diameter in the forward projectile body a mid portion with the median inner diameter and an aft portion with the largest inner diameter.

The hollow core is adapted to accept and to mate with the cylindrical body of the slug by the front portion . The front portion is provided with a circumferential stop which stop forms part of the forward projectile body such that the partially bullet shaped tip of the slug is positioned in front of the forward projectile body . At this location the slug and the forward projectile body are integrally assembled by interference fit bonding welding brazing or other suitable techniques.

In addition the outer diameter of the slug is smaller than that of the forward projectile body such that when the slug and the forward projectile body are substantially concentric in an integral assembly a circumferential shoulder of uniform width is created perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the projectile . In the exemplary embodiment illustrated in this shoulder is located behind the flat bottom of the tip of the slug to place most of the weight of the slug frontal to the forward projectile body.

The hollow core in the forward projectile body is also adapted to accept the aft projectile body at the aft portion provided with a circumferential stop in the forward projectile body. The forward projectile body and the aft projectile body are integrally assembled by interference fit bonding welding brazing or other suitable techniques.

The aft projectile body is illustrated in . represents an isometric view of the aft projectile body that is illustrated as being provided with a plurality of grooves to induce spin to the projectile during flight. represents a side view of the aft projectile body illustrated in . represent different exemplary embodiments of the aft projectile body illustrated in . The aft projectile body defines at least in part the hollow core of the finless projectile . The aft projectile body has a generally cylindrical shape and circular cross section with an open end on the front and a closed end on the aft and defines at least in part the hollow core of the finless projectile .

The aft projectile body is preferably made from aluminum or a material that is generally lighter in weight than the material forming the slug . The aft projectile body has an open ended cylindrical shape and includes a uniform inner diameter that defines at least in part the hollow core . The aft projectile body includes a front portion that mates with the aft portion of the forward projectile body to form an integral assembly.

A circumferential band is located behind the front portion and has a slightly larger outer diameter than that of the front portion . The circumferential band supports obturator as it will be explained later in greater detail. A circumferential ring is located behind the obturator band and has an outer diameter that is larger than that of the obturator band or circumferential band but smaller than the outer diameter of the obturator . An aft portion is disposed behind the circumferential ring and includes an aft section an aft circumferential flange and a bottom plate that forms an enclosure to the hollow core .

The outer diameters of the aft section and the aft circumferential flange are smaller than that the outer diameter of the obturator . In an exemplary embodiment the aft section of the aft projectile body has an outer diameter that is smaller than those of the circumferential ring and the aft circumferential flange such that during flight air flows into a volume behind the circumferential ring to reach the aft circumferential flange .

The aft circumferential flange is further provided with a plurality of grooves that are disposed at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the finless projectile as illustrated in and . As a result the grooves are also referred to as angular grooves. After the air flows past the aft section it enters the angular grooves and induces a spin to the finless projectile during flight further enhancing stability and target aiming accuracy.

The angular grooves cause the finless projectile to spin in flight. A preferred number of angular grooves ranges between 3 and 8. The depth of the angular grooves can vary but is preferable when the bottom of the groove is level with the outer surface of the aft section of the aft projectile body in order to minimize any air flow disruption at the angular grooves and to achieve a smooth air flow pattern.

The obturator is illustrated in . represents an isometric view of an obturator that is disposed between the forward projectile body and the aft projectile body as illustrated in . The obturator fits tightly on the outside perimeter of the circumferential band of the aft projectile body .

The finless projectile has an outer diameter that is full bore with the obturator in a snug sliding fit with the barrel of the weapon. represents a cross sectional side view of the obturator as illustrated in further illustrating chamfers on both sides of the obturator .

The obturator is generally made from a plastic material for example nylon. The obturator is generally annularly shaped. The outer diameter of the obturator is the largest outer diameter of the finless projectile . The outer diameter of the obturator matches the bore size of the launch barrel such that the obturator seals the propellant gases in the weapon behind the obturator as the projectile is launched from the weapon barrel .

The obturator is provided with chamfers on its front and aft outer corners to reduce friction and stress with the launch barrel . The inner diameter of the obturator tightly wraps around the outer surface of the circumferential band . In addition the obturator is located between the aft portion of the forward projectile body and the circumferential ring of the aft projectile body such that the obturator remains in place during the barrel launch and in flight. The obturator is integrally assembled to the forward projectile body and aft projectile body by placement pressure fit bonding or another suitable technique.

The finless projectile is supported inside the bore by sliding contact during the launch from the bearing surface of the Bourrelet in the forward projectile body and from the obturator that is located on the aft projectile body which obturator presses against the launch barrel or the bore. The snug support on the finless projectile improves the target aiming and excursion accuracy.

With reference to the pad is generally made from a plastic material such as rubber or any composite material that contains rubber. The pad generally has a circular shape and attaches by adhesive for example to the aft outer surface of the aft projectile body.

In an exemplary process to assemble the finless projectile the aft projectile body is placed with the groove side at the bottom the obturator is integrally assembled onto the aft projectile body against the circumferential ring the forward projectile body is integrally assembled onto the aft projectile body against the stop . The slug is assembled to the forward projectile body against the stop as described earlier. The pad is then assembled onto the aft surface of the aft projectile body .

In general the impact momentum and kinetic energy of the projectile are determined by its impact velocity and weight. As described earlier the finless projectile that has an aerodynamic shape in a slug that minimizes drag and achieves high velocity and a the slug that concentrates the weight of the finless projectile onto the front of the projectile .

The full bore finless projectile imparts a high kinetic energy for explosive ordinance disposal. In other terms the present finless projectile design enhances the terminal effectiveness of the finless projectile . The simple structure of the finless projectile results in lower cost relative to the conventional projectile with a sabot.

It is to be understood that the specific embodiments of the invention that have been described are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principle of the present invention. Numerous modifications may be made to the present invention described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

