---

title: Restricting time slots for mesh networks
abstract: Systems and methods are described that facilitate controlling transmission/reception time slots in a wireless multi-hop ad hoc network. A node, such as an access terminal or an access point, may select an identifier that corresponds to specific time slots during which nodes with that particular identifier may transmit and/or receive. Nodes that are one hop away from each other may select different identifiers in order to ensure that neighboring nodes do not transmit and/or receive during the same time slots. In this manner, interference caused and/or experienced by a given node may be reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08014277&OS=08014277&RS=08014277
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08014277
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061115
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 737 731 entitled RESTRICTING TIME SLOTS FOR MESH NETWORKS filed on Nov. 16 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to managing transmission and reception in a wireless communication environment.

Wireless communication devices have become smaller and more powerful in order to meet consumer needs and to improve portability and convenience. The increase in processing power in mobile devices such as cellular telephones has led to an increase in demands on wireless network transmission systems. Such systems typically are not as easily updated as the cellular devices that communicate there over. As mobile device capabilities expand it can be difficult to maintain an older wireless network system in a manner that facilitates fully exploiting new and improved wireless device capabilities.

More particularly frequency division based techniques typically separate the spectrum into distinct channels by splitting it into uniform portions of bandwidth for example division of the frequency band allocated for wireless communication can be split into 30 channels each of which can carry a voice conversation or with digital service carry digital data. Each channel can be assigned to only one user at a time. One known variant is an orthogonal frequency division technique that effectively partitions the overall system bandwidth into multiple orthogonal subbands. These subbands are also referred to as tones carriers subcarriers bins and or frequency channels. Each subband is associated with a subcarrier that can be modulated with data. With time division based techniques a band is split time wise into sequential time slices or time slots. Each user of a channel is provided with a time slice for transmitting and receiving information. For example at any given time t a user is provided access to the channel for a short burst. Then access switches to another user who is provided with a short burst of time for transmitting and receiving information. The users alternate transmitting and receiving and eventually each user is provided with multiple transmission and reception bursts.

Code division based techniques typically transmit data over a number of frequencies available at any time in a range. In general data is digitized and spread over available bandwidth wherein multiple users can be overlaid on the channel and respective users can be assigned a unique sequence code. Users can transmit in the same wide band portion of spectrum wherein each user s signal is spread over the entire bandwidth by its respective unique spreading code. This technique can provide for sharing wherein one or more users can concurrently transmit and receive. Such sharing can be achieved through spread spectrum digital modulation wherein a user s stream of bits is encoded and spread across a very wide channel in a pseudo random fashion. The receiver is designed to recognize the associated unique sequence code and undo the randomization in order to collect the bits for a particular user in a coherent manner.

A typical wireless communication network e.g. employing frequency time and code division techniques includes one or more base stations that provide a coverage area and one or more mobile e.g. wireless terminals that can transmit and receive data within the coverage area. A typical base station can simultaneously transmit multiple data streams for broadcast multicast and or unicast services wherein a data stream is a stream of data that can be of independent reception interest to a mobile terminal. A mobile terminal within the coverage area of that base station can be interested in receiving one more than one or all the data streams carried by the composite stream. Likewise a mobile terminal can transmit data to the base station or another mobile terminal. Such communication between base station and mobile terminal or between mobile terminals can be degraded due to channel variations and or interference power variations. Accordingly a need in the art exists for systems and or methods that facilitate coordination of transmit and receive schedules to improve throughput in a wireless communication environment.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspect in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

According to various aspects nodes e.g. access terminals access points etc. in a multi hop ad hoc network may select identifiers that indicate time slots during which a given node may transmit and or receive communications. For example nodes that are one hop away from each other may select different identifiers to ensure that they transmit during different time slots and thereby reduce interference.

According to related aspects a method for data communications can comprise detecting a set of at least one node and choosing a node from the detected set. The chosen node has an identifier associated with it. The method may further comprise selecting an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers and processing data based on at least one of the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node.

Another aspect relates to an apparatus for data communications. The apparatus may comprise a means for detecting a set of at least one node. The apparatus may also comprise a means for choosing a node from the detected set. The chosen node may have an associated identifier. The apparatus may further comprise a means for selecting an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers and a means for processing data based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen node or both the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen mode.

Yet another aspect relates to an apparatus for data communications that may comprise a detecting module that may be configured to detect a set that comprises at least one node and a choosing module that may be configured to choose a node from the detected set. An identifier may be associated with the chosen node. The apparatus may further comprise a selecting module that may be configured to select an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers and a processing module that may be configured to process data based on either or both the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node.

Still another aspect relates to a processor that may be configured to detect a set that includes at least one node and choose a node that has an identifier associated therewith from the detected set. The processor may be further configured to select an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers and process data based on at least one of the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node.

According to another aspect is a computer program product for data communications. The computer program product may comprise a computer readable medium comprising codes for causing a computer to detect a set of at least one node choose a node which has an identifier associated with it from the detected set select an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers and process data based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen node or both the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node. A computer program product may include a storage medium such as a compact disc CD with software thereon. The software may comprise instructions or codes. The computer program product may also comprise the CD and its associated packaging.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more aspects. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles may be employed and the described aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software software in execution firmware middle ware microcode and or any combination thereof. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal . Additionally components of systems described herein may be rearranged and or complimented by additional components in order to facilitate achieving the various aspects goals advantages etc. described with regard thereto and are not limited to the precise configurations set forth in a given figure as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a subscriber station. A subscriber station can also be called a system a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data. It will be appreciated that the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Access terminals are typically dispersed throughout the system and each terminal may be fixed or mobile. Each terminal may communicate with zero one or multiple access points on the downlink and uplink at any given moment. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the access points to the terminals and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations .

For a centralized architecture a system controller not shown may couple to access points and provide coordination and control for access points . For a distributed architecture access points may communicate with one another as needed. Data transmission on the forward link occurs from one access point to one access terminal at or near the maximum data rate that can be supported by the forward link and or the communication system. Additional channels of the forward link e.g. control channel may be transmitted from multiple access points to one access terminal. Reverse link data communication may occur from one access terminal to one or more access points.

The wired access point e.g. node selects an arbitrary color such as red. Such selection can be made by the wired access point based on the disclosed techniques randomly probabilistically or based on other criteria. All nodes that are one hop from the wired access point e.g. nodes and may select the opposite color blue. All nodes that are two hops away e.g. nodes and may select red and so forth. In general each node selects the opposite color of its parent node where the parent node is the first node on the routing path back to the wired access point. This creates a topology where for any given node all the nodes that are one hop away select an opposite color. Thus a node need not transmit and receive simultaneously.

According to related aspects more than two colors may be utilized to distinguish nodes. For instance the color of a child node may be the next ordered color from the parent node in a modulo relationship. Additionally mobile nodes may be assigned a third color which separates access from backhaul. Still furthermore control channel segment may be separated from data transmissions and only the control channels need be colored. 

Selection of the wired access point color and the routing paths can be used to determine individual node colors which can be chosen to manage interference from simultaneous transmissions. For example if two nodes interfere with each other when one transmits and the other receives then their colors can be selected through parent node color selection or wired access point color selection such that either they are the same color or they are connected. Additionally or alternatively each color may be further divided into two or more sub colors. If a node detects an active dominant interferer then it may send an indication to the dominant interference node which restricts the node to only transmit on the sub colors e.g. time slots having the sub colors . For example the sub color for blue may correspond to even blue slots or odd blue slots or every fourth blue slot etc. Further if the dominant interferer is not detected in a given period of time or a subsequent indication is not received in a given period of time then the node on a sub color may either move back to the full color or to a less restrictive sub color. In this manner the various described aspects facilitate scheduling transmissions without contention periods and mitigating a need for simultaneous transmission and reception.

Referring to methods relating to coordinating transmit times and receive times in a wireless mesh network are illustrated. For example methods can relate to data communication time slots in a wireless mesh network in an FDMA environment an OFDMA environment a CDMA environment a WCDMA environment a TDMA environment an SDMA environment or any other suitable wireless environment. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methods are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methods are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more aspects occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a method could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with one or more aspects.

At nodes may transmit or receive signals during time slots corresponding to their respective indicator values. For instance nodes having a first indicator may transmit receive during time slots reserved for nodes with first indicator while nodes with a second indicator may transmit receive during time slots reserved for nodes with the second indicator value. If greater interference diversity is desired more indicator values may be employed.

At an identifier is selected from a set that includes two or more identifiers. The selected identifier may be different from the identifier of the chosen node. The two or more identifiers may comprise the identifier of the chosen node and the selected identifier. In accordance with some aspects the selection can be based on the transmit power of the access node the quality of service associated with the access node or both the transmit power and the quality of service. For example if the node will be utilized for a voice call the selection might be based on the most reliable link so that the voice call has a lower chance of being dropped. If the node will be utilized for surfing the web the selection might be based on criteria other than the most reliable link such as the link that can achieve the highest throughput. Alternatively or additionally the selection can be based on an amount of interference detected within the communication network the amount of traffic or communication occurring during each time slot the number of nodes that can communicate during that time slot and so on.

For example the selection may take into consideration that the transmit power of an access point might be stronger than the transmit power of an access terminal. Thus an access terminal given a choice between a first identifier associated with an access point and a second identifier associated with an access terminal might choose the second identifier so that it does not have to transmit during the same time slot as the access point. In another example if the access node has a strong transmit power it might be able to tolerate more interference than a node that has a weaker transmit power. Thus the access node might not take into consideration the amount of interference it will cause to other nodes when choosing the identifier.

Alternatively or additionally the set of two or more identifiers may comprise a first identifier to be selected only by an access terminal and a second identifier to be selected by either an access terminal or access point. Thus the access terminal can select either of the two identifiers while the access point only has one choice. The set may also comprise a third identifier to be selected only by an access point thus providing the access point with two choices. Therefore the selection may be based on the type of node e.g. access point access terminal .

At data is processed e.g. transmitted received based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen node or both the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node. For example data is communicated during time slots that correspond to the indicator or identifier selected by the access node. For instance nodes assigned a first indicator may transmit receive during time slots associated with the first indicator and nodes assigned a second indicator may transmit receive during time slots associated with the second indicator and so on through N indicators if desired where N is an integer.

According to some aspects indicators may be selected as a function of one or more factors such as geographical distance from a proximate node geographical distance from a wired access node access point or first parent node e.g. which may be an access point an access terminal a repeater station etc. and the like. Additionally or alternatively selection of a particular indicator may be a function of transmit power and distance to proximate nodes e.g. a likelihood that the node to which the indicator is being assigned will cause interference at one or more proximate nodes .

At a node having an identifier associated with it is chosen from the detected set. The chosen node can be an access point wired or wireless an access terminal or other communication device. The node can be chosen based on various criteria including the identifier a transmit power of the node a transmit power of the access node and so forth. A channel condition associated with each detected node may be determined or evaluated at . For example upon entering a mesh network three nodes are detected. For each link between the access node and the three nodes the channel condition is determined and the link having the best channel condition is chosen. Alternatively or additionally the determination may be made based on an interference associated with each detected node. The interference determination may be based on identifiers of the detected nodes. For example five nodes are detected wherein three nodes are associated with a blue color one with a red color and one with a green color. A blue color may not be selected because there are potentially at least three other nodes transmitting during the blue time slot. Thus the determination may be made based on how many nodes have a common color or other identifier.

At an identifier is selected from a set of two or more identifiers. The set can include the identifier of the chosen node and the selected identifier. Alternatively or additionally the selection can be made based on the channel condition determination on the interference determination or on both the channel condition determination and the interference determination. For example if a red and a green node are adjacent to the access node the selection may be made based on those color choices.

If the access node is a wired access point it can randomly select an identifier from the set of at least two identifiers. Additionally or alternatively the wired access point can make the selection based on probabilistic criteria or based on other criteria. However if the access node is not a wired access point it should not select randomly to mitigate the occurrence of nodes that have a distance of one hop being assigned the same identifier.

For instance if the access point randomly or otherwise selects the color red then nodes one hop away from the access point may select the color blue. Remaining nodes may select colors such that neighboring nodes are not assigned the same color. According to the above example nodes that are two hops away from the access point node may select the color red while nodes that are three hops away may select blue. In this example nodes that are an odd number of hops from the access point may select the second color while nodes that are an even number of hops away from the access point may select the color of the access point. In this manner no two neighboring nodes will have the same color.

At nodes may process e.g. receive or transmit data during time slots assigned to the respective colors. That is to say that transmitting or receiving data may be based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen node or both. Data reception can include receiving data during time slots associated with the selected identifier and data transmission can include transmitting data during time slots associated with the identifier of the chosen node. The transmitted and or received data can be control data payload data or other data. Therefore the identifier can be used for transmitting receiving control data on a control channel or for other data e.g. voice data payload data and so forth .

For instance blue nodes may transmit during blue time slots and red nodes may transmit during red time slots where differently colored time slots are distinct in time and do not overlap. By permitting transmission only during a correspondingly colored time slot neighboring nodes do not transmit at the same time thus mitigating interference there between. Thus method facilitates controlling transmit and receive times for nodes in a TDD multi hop mesh network.

Access terminal can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that may store data to be transmitted received data and the like. Memory may store information related to indicator assignments indicator selections indicators associated with other proximate or neighboring nodes etc. For example information related to indicators assigned to a nearest N nodes where N is an integer may be stored for analysis upon entry into a sector or cell upon wake up etc. in order to permit access terminal to make a selection of an indicator e.g. that is different from the proximate nodes indicators for itself that will minimize interference between itself and neighboring nodes.

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Receiver is further operatively coupled to a detecting module that may be configured to detect one or more nodes within a communications network. Such detection can occur when access terminal enters the network for example. A choosing module can be operatively coupled to the receiver and or detecting module . Choosing module may be configured to choose a node from the one or more detected nodes. An identifier can be associated with the chosen node that indicates the corresponding time slot during which the chosen node transmits and or receives data.

A selecting module may be operatively connected to a processor and can be configured to select an identifier from a set of at least two identifiers. The processor can further be configured to process data based on one or more of the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node. Additionally or alternatively detecting module may detect other nodes indicator assignments in order to permit processor to evaluate indicators for proximate nodes and select an indicator for access terminal as a function thereof. For instance processor may select an indicator that is different from indicators assigned to or selected by nearby or proximate nodes. Transmitter may then transmit and receiver may receive during time slots associated with the selected or assigned indicator. Because the selected or assigned indicator is different from indicators of proximate nodes access terminal is permitted to transmit receive on different time slots than those upon which proximate nodes may transmit receive thereby mitigating interference between access terminal and proximate nodes.

Access terminal still further comprises a modulator and a transmitter that transmits the signal to for instance a base station an access point another access terminal a remote agent etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that one or more of detecting module choosing module and selecting module may be part of processor or a number of processors not shown .

Processor may be further coupled to a detecting module a choosing module and a selecting module which together may facilitate selecting an indicator associated with access point . Processor may execute instructions similar to those described above with regard to processor . For example selecting module may select an assignment of an indicator e.g. a color number letter bit value . . . to access point and processor may direct transmitter to transmit and receiver to receive only during time slots associated with the assigned indicator. According to another aspect detecting module may detect indicators associated with other nodes e.g. access terminals access points repeaters . . . proximate to the access point and processor may select an indicator that is different from the detected indicators to ensure that transmitter does not transmit and receiver does not receive during time slots that are reserved for the proximate nodes via their respective indicators. Although depicted as being separate from processor it is to be appreciated that detecting module choosing module selecting module may be part of processor or a number of processors not shown .

Referring now to on a downlink at access point a transmit TX data processor receives formats codes interleaves and modulates or symbol maps traffic data and provides modulation symbols data symbols . A symbol modulator receives and processes the data symbols and pilot symbols and provides a stream of symbols. A symbol modulator multiplexes data and pilot symbols and provides them to a transmitter unit TMTR . Each transmit symbol may be a data symbol a pilot symbol or a signal value of zero. The pilot symbols may be sent continuously in each symbol period. The pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM .

TMTR receives and converts the stream of symbols into one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and frequency upconverts the analog signals to generate a downlink signal suitable for transmission over the wireless channel. The downlink signal is then transmitted through an antenna to the terminals. At terminal an antenna receives the downlink signal and provides a received signal to a receiver unit RCVR . Receiver unit conditions e.g. filters amplifies and frequency downconverts the received signal and digitizes the conditioned signal to obtain samples. A symbol demodulator demodulates and provides received pilot symbols to a processor for channel estimation. Symbol demodulator further receives a frequency response estimate for the downlink from processor performs data demodulation on the received data symbols to obtain data symbol estimates which are estimates of the transmitted data symbols and provides the data symbol estimates to an RX data processor which demodulates i.e. symbol demaps deinterleaves and decodes the data symbol estimates to recover the transmitted traffic data. The processing by symbol demodulator and RX data processor is complementary to the processing by symbol modulator and TX data processor respectively at access point .

On the uplink a TX data processor processes traffic data and provides data symbols. A symbol modulator receives and multiplexes the data symbols with pilot symbols performs modulation and provides a stream of symbols. A transmitter unit then receives and processes the stream of symbols to generate an uplink signal which is transmitted by the antenna to the access point .

At access point the uplink signal from terminal is received by the antenna and processed by a receiver unit to obtain samples. A symbol demodulator then processes the samples and provides received pilot symbols and data symbol estimates for the uplink. An RX data processor processes the data symbol estimates to recover the traffic data transmitted by terminal . A processor performs channel estimation for each active terminal transmitting on the uplink. Multiple terminals may transmit pilot concurrently on the uplink on their respective assigned sets of pilot subbands where the pilot subband sets may be interlaced.

Processors and direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at access point and terminal respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory units not shown that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

For a multiple access system e.g. FDMA OFDMA CDMA TDMA etc. multiple terminals can transmit concurrently on the uplink. For such a system the pilot subbands may be shared among different terminals. The channel estimation techniques may be used in cases where the pilot subbands for each terminal span the entire operating band possibly except for the band edges . Such a pilot subband structure may be desirable to obtain frequency diversity for each terminal. The techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units used for channel estimation may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. With software implementation can be through modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory unit and executed by the processors and .

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor though various means as is known in the art.

Module for detecting a node set is operatively coupled to a module for choosing a node from the detected set . An identifier may be associated with the chosen node and indicates time slots during which a given node may transmit and or receive. Identifiers may comprise colors numerical values bit values and so forth. The module for choosing a node from the detected set may choose the node by determining an identifier associated with each detected node and choosing the node based on the determined identifier. Thus the node may be chosen based solely on the identifier without taking into consideration other factors such as a communication link quality transmission rate and so on. The chosen node may be a wired access point a wireless access point or an access terminal.

Operatively coupled to the module for choosing a node from the detected set is a module for selecting an identifier . The identifier may be selected from a set that includes two or more identifiers which may comprise the identifier of the chosen node and a selected identifier. According to another aspect the set of identifiers may comprise a first identifier to be selected only by an access terminal and a second identifier to be selected by either an access terminal or an access point. A third identifier may also be included in the set that is to be selected only by an access point. As such the access terminal may have two identifiers from which it can select and the access point may have one or two identifiers from which it can select. It will be appreciated that any suitable identifiers e.g. colors numbers letters frequencies . . . may be utilized to distinguish nodes from one another. If the apparatus is implemented in a wired access point the module for selecting an identifier may randomly select the identifier from the set or based on some other selection technique. As such the access terminal may have two identifiers from which it can select and the access terminal may have one or two identifiers from with it can select. It will be appreciated that any suitable identifiers e.g. colors numbers letters frequencies . . . may be utilized to distinguish nodes from one another. If the apparatus is implemented in a wired access point the module for selecting an identifier may randomly select the identifier from the set or based on some other selection technique.

According to an aspect module for selecting an identifier may select an identifier that is different from the identifier associated with the chosen node. The selection may be based on a transmit power of the apparatus based on quality of service associated with the apparatus or based on both the transmit power and the quality of service. Further identifiers may be selected by multiple nodes e.g. when employed in a network controller or the like wherein nodes select identifiers such that proximate nodes e.g. nodes next to each other topographically geographically etc. select different identifiers. For instance if a first node selects the color red then nodes one hop away from the first node may select the color blue. Identifiers may be selected by remaining nodes so long as their neighboring nodes select different indicators. According to the above example nodes that are two hops away from the first node may select the color red while nodes that are three hops away may select blue. In this example nodes that are an odd number of hops from the first node may select the second color while nodes that are an even number of hops away from the first node may select the color of the first node. In this manner no two neighboring nodes will select the same color indicator or identifier.

According to a related aspect module for selecting an identifier may reside in a node such as a wired access point a wireless access point an access terminal etc. Module for selecting an identifier may select an identifier to the node in which it is employed such that the selected identifier is different than identifiers assigned to nodes that are proximate to the node in which apparatus is employed. For instance if nodes one hop away from the current node exhibit a red indicator or identifier then the current node may select a blue indicator to ensure that it does not transmit at the same time as the red nodes thereby mitigating interference caused and or experienced by the current node.

Module for selecting an identifier may be operatively coupled to a module for processing data . Such data may be processed based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen node or both the selected identifier and the identifier of the chosen node. The module for processing data may process the data by transmitting or receiving the data based on the selected identifier the identifier of the chosen mode or both. The data transmission or data reception may be associated with the chosen node and may be control data or payload data e.g. voice data . The data may be received or transmitted on corresponding time slots which permits a node to transmit or receive during time slots associated with the respective identifiers. For instance according to an example wherein colors are used as identifiers blue nodes may transmit receive during blue time slots and red nodes may transmit receive during red time slots where differently colored time slots are distinct in time and do not overlap such as are described with regard to . By permitting transmission reception only during a correspondingly colored time slot neighboring nodes need not transmit at the same time thus mitigating interference there between. Thus apparatus facilitates controlling transmission and receive times for nodes in a TDD multi hop mesh network in contrast to conventional systems which in turn can facilitate mitigating receive chain saturation during transmission at a given node.

In accordance with some aspects apparatus may also comprise a module for determining a channel condition associated with each detected node not shown . Such determination may be made by determining interference associated with each detected node. The interference determination may be based on identifiers of the detected nodes. In such aspects the means for selecting an identifier may select the identifier based on the channel determination the interference determination or both the channel condition determination and the interference determination.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

