---

title: Management method and system for a user
abstract: The invention provides a system, method, machine readable program and a graphical user interface for managing multiple accounts associated with a user. The method includes receiving a first set of information associated with identification of a user, in response to the first set of information, identifying a second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user, the financial account being associated with a financial institution, in response to the first set of information. The method also includes identifying a third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user, the health account being associated with a healthcare institution. A fourth set of information is generated based upon the second set of information and the third set of information. The method also includes sending a signal representative of the fourth set of information. The signal may be sent to the user or a designee of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775214&OS=08775214&RS=08775214
owner: Thompson Reuters (Market) LLC
number: 08775214
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060719
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to a method system and machine readable program that may include a graphical user interface for assisting a user such as a consumer. Particularly the present invention is directed to an integrated system that can facilitate management of the financial health and other affairs of a consumer as desired.

A variety of computer implemented systems including graphical user interfaces are known in the art for helping users such as consumers manage various aspects of their lives. For example service providers such as financial institutions that provide banking services frequently provide online access to a user so that the user can view the balances of their accounts with the institution. Online access to personal information specific to institutions offering various services has been growing and has started to become very common. For example it is becoming more common for a user to access personal health related information online such as from a website built by their health insurance provider. Indeed many services have become available online.

While the availability of services online has initially presented many advantages to the user it is not without its problems. For example so many aspects of management of a user s affairs have gone online that it has become cumbersome and difficult for a user to keep track of user names and passwords for accounts for multiple bank accounts and brokerages auto and health insurance accounts tax accounts online learning accounts mortgages credit cards and the like. As can be seen while online access has solved certain problems and created convenience it has also created confusion and a highly segmented view of a consumer s state of affairs.

Moreover with the internet boom nearly every kind of information one can think of has become available online as well. For example financial advice health advice and legal advice among myriad others can all be found by a user online. As so much information is available it is difficult for a user to find the correct information that they need let alone determine which information is the most accurate and therefore useful to the user.

At the same time new dynamics are reshaping the Wealth Management industry. Because of online access potential customers for services have become more empowered than ever before. For example over the past twenty years retirement responsibilities have shifted largely from institutions to individuals. Indeed nearly seventy percent of U.S. households now have two or more financial relationships that they manage. These financial relationships are managed through checking savings money market retirement 401k stock and other accounts. Although the internet and online access have created some confusion as described above the Internet has also provided unprecedented transparency to wealth management performance and shifted decision maker power to the end client.

Compounding the above the baby boomer population is aging and starting to think about retirement. Nearly 76 million baby boomers account for one third of the total US population. Two thirds of baby boomers or about 46 million people will likely retire before 2013. As investors become more sophisticated they require access to multi asset class solutions including fixed income and alternative investments. Baby boomers will drive more assets into the investable asset market possibly thirty trillion dollars by 2010. The baby boomer generation will then move from saving to income preservation requiring increased tax planning.

Self management for retirement and healthcare is becoming increasingly complex. As the population continues to age there will be a shift to self managed retirement plans. Most customers are now in defined contribution plans as evidenced by the expanding 401K market which reached 1.6 trillion in assets in 2003. There has also been a shift to self managed healthcare planning Healthcare costs account for nearly 26 of all retirement funds. This percentage of funds will likely grow with increasing health care costs as time progresses.

As shown above while there has been a shift to systems that can permit more convenient management of an individual s personal affairs online the nature of what an individual needs to manage is growing increasingly complex. Moreover while the availability of information that would be useful to such individuals has been growing finding and distilling the information useful for an individual presents a problem. As such there exists a strong and growing need for a system that can help an individual collect and manage myriad information relating to their affairs. The present invention provides a solution for these and other needs as described herein.

The purpose and advantages of the present invention will be set forth in and apparent from the description that follows. Additional advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the methods and systems particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as from the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the invention as embodied herein the invention includes a method for managing multiple accounts associated with a user. The method includes receiving a first set of information associated with identification of a user. The method also includes identifying in response to the first set of information a second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user. The financial account is associated with a financial institution. The method also includes identifying in response to the first set of information a third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user. The health account is associated with a healthcare institution. The method further includes generating a fourth set of information based upon the second set of information and the third set of information. Additionally the method includes sending a signal representative of the fourth set of information. The signal may be sent to the user or a designee of the user for example.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the first set of information may include information selected from the group including an account number such as a user s social security number taxpayer identification number bank account number website username email address telephone number a date and combinations thereof. The financial account may be selected from the group including a bank account a tax account a mortgage account education account credit account brokerage account and a retirement account for example. The health account may be selected from the group including a benefits record a health insurance account a disability insurance account a long term care insurance account a medical record account and a pharmaceutical record account among others. Transactions performed using data relating to the health of the user may be transacted in accordance with a preselected standard. For example the preselected standard may be one established in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA .

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the fourth set of information may be an amalgamation of the second set of information and the third set of information. If desired the fourth set of information may be a subset of an amalgamation of the second set of information and the third set of information. If desired a fifth set of information may be identified in response to the first set of information. The fifth set of information may relate to the financial account or a second financial account of the user. The second financial account may be associated with the financial institution or a second financial institution. If desired the fourth set of information may be generated using the fifth set of information and at least one of the second and third sets of information. If desired multiple financial accounts may be accessed by the user from a single or multiple financial institutions.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention a sixth set of information may be identified in response to the first set of information the sixth set of information relating to a second health account of the user the second health account being associated with a second health institution. If desired the fourth set of information may be generated using the sixth set of information and at least one of the second third sets of information. If desired multiple health accounts may be accessed by the user from a single or multiple health institutions.

In accordance with still a further aspect of the invention the second set of information may further include information relating to a financial advisor of the user. If desired the financial advisor may be selected from the group including a stockbroker a financial planner an accountant a credit analyst a real estate agent and an attorney among others. The second set of information may include information relating to the credentials of the financial advisor among other things.

In accordance with yet a further aspect of the invention the third set of information may further include information relating to a health advisor of the user. The health advisor may be selected from the group including a doctor a health insurance agent a physical therapist a psychologist a nutritionist a therapist and a spiritual advisor among others. The second set of information may include data relating to the credentials of the health advisor.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the signal may be related to a set of actionable information. An operation can be performed on the set of actionable information. The operation may be performed by using a decision support tool selected by the user. Preferably the decision support tool permits computation of a financial projection a health projection or a lifestyle projection. By way of example the decision support tool may be selected from the group consisting of a retirement calculator a college savings calculator a drug cost saving calculator and combinations thereof. Preferably the actionable information relates to at least one of a financial or a healthcare decision.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the method further includes receiving a decision associated with the user in response to the set of actionable information. The second and or third sets of information may be updated based upon the decision. The decision may include an affirmative response a negative response or another response as appropriate. For example a user can be asked to postpone any decision.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the signal representative of the fourth set of information may be forwarded as an alert to the user. The alert may relate to a health decision or a financial decision. The alert may be sent to the user by way of electronic mail. If desired alert may include a financial projection that computes the effect of costs of the health or lifestyle of the user on the user s finances. An alert differs from a set of actionable information in that the alert does not require an action on the part of the user. A user taking action can include for example a user electing taking action at the time the actionable information is first reviewed by the user by a user declining to take action and by a user deciding to be reminded to take action at a time in the future among other actions.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention the user may permit an advisor to access desired profile information relating to the user in a database. The advisor may be a financial advisor and the profile information may include financial information relating to the user. If desired the user may specify a subset of the profile information that the advisor can access. The advisor may be a health advisor and the profile information may include health information relating to the user.

In further accordance with the invention a system for managing multiple accounts associated with a user is provided. The system includes means for receiving a first set of information associated with identification of the user. The system also includes means for identifying a second set of information in response to the first set of information the second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user the financial account being associated with a financial institution. The system also includes means for identifying a third set of information in response to the first set of information the third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user the health account being associated with a healthcare institution. The system also includes means for generating a fourth set of information based upon the second set of information and the third set of information and means for sending a signal representative of the fourth set of information to the user or a designee of the user.

In further accordance with the invention a machine readable program on a computer readable medium containing instructions for controlling a system for managing multiple accounts associated with a user is provided. The program includes a first computer code segment for processing a first set of received information associated with identification of the user and a second computer code segment for identifying a second set of information in response to the first set of information the second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user the financial account being associated with a financial institution. The program further includes a third computer code segment for identifying a third set of information in response to the first set of information the third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user the health account being associated with a healthcare institution. The program also includes a fourth computer code segment for generating a fourth set of information based upon the second set of information and the third set of information and a fifth computer code segment for sending a signal representative of the fourth set of information to the user or a designee of the user.

In accordance with still another aspect of the invention a graphical user interface for controlling a system for managing multiple accounts associated with a user is provided. The graphical user interface includes a first field for receiving a first set of information associated with identification of the user and a second field for specifying a second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user the financial account being associated with a financial institution. The interface further includes a third field for specifying a third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user the health account being associated with a healthcare institution. The interface also includes a fourth field for requesting generation of a fourth set of information based upon the second set of information and the third set of information and a fifth field for displaying a signal representative of the fourth set of information to the user or a designee of the user.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention claimed. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute part of this specification are included to illustrate and provide a further understanding of the method and system of the invention. Together with the description the drawings serve to explain the principles of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present preferred embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The method and corresponding steps of the invention will be described in conjunction with the detailed description of the system machine readable program and graphical user interface as described herein.

The devices and methods presented herein may be used to assist a user such as a consumer in making financial and health related decisions. The present invention is particularly well suited for assisting a user such as a consumer to study the interaction between their health and their finances. It will be appreciated that the user can include a consumer as well as a designee of the consumer such as a legal designee e.g guardian or parent as well as an advisor of the consumer as described herein. Thus the user can be considered to be anyone capable of using the system described herein to help accomplish a useful tangible end result.

Thus in accordance with the invention a system and associated method for managing multiple accounts associated with a user such as a consumer is provided. It will be understood that an account associated with a user can refer to an account that belongs to a consumer as such the account is associated with the consumer . Similarly an account of a consumer may be associated with an advisor of the consumer by the consumer giving the advisor access to view the account of the consumer by way of system .

For purposes of illustration and not limitation as depicted in a schematic representation of an overview of a system made in accordance with the invention is designated generally by reference character . As depicted in system includes a client layer a web interface a business logic layer a data access layer and a back end services layer . Other embodiments of a system in accordance with the invention or aspects thereof are provided in as will be described.

Thus in accordance with the invention the system includes means for receiving a first set of information associated with identification of the user.

For purposes of illustration and not limitation as embodied herein and as depicted in system is provided with a client layer . Client layer is preferably adapted to receive a first set of information associated with identification with the user. Client layer of system preferably includes libraried data stored on a client terminal at a client location. However it will be recognized that system can be configured so that a user can access the system without storing files at the location of the user. As depicted in client layer can be provided with a browser adapted and configured to interact with a multibrowser library . Multibrowser library permits a user to have a similar experience across different types of browsers. For example a variety of conventional internet browsers may be used or other web interfaces may be used such as various interfaces provided by different personal digital assistants as well as portable telephones television based web access and the like.

If desired system can be adapted to deliver alerts to a user relating to financial and or health information. Alerts can be delivered in a variety of forms such as by way of electronic mail pop up alerts text messaging voice mail messages and the like.

Interactions between a user and system are preferably facilitated by way of a graphical user interface GUI described in detail below and as depicted in . The first set of information associated with identification with the user can include a variety of elements. For example such information can include an identifier such as a custom username and password of the user a user s social security number a taxpayer identification number a bank account and or routing number passport number drivers license number and employee identification number among others as known to those of skill in the art. If appropriate customized logins may be provided for users based in other countries based the country of origin. Likewise login information may be based on membership with an organization e.g. AARP or club or professional organization or other affiliation. Any suitable means can be used that permits unique and secure identification of the user. Generally it will be understood that as depicted while GUI of client layer receives information from a user first such information may subsequently be received by web interface portion business logic portion and portions and of system depending on how system is configured.

As further depicted in a web interface is provided. Web interface is adapted and configured to create and format content into web pages to form the graphical user interface observed by the user. Web server can include a programming interface such as the Internet Server Application Programming Interface ISAPI of Internet Information Services IIS commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Programming interface facilitates communication between system applications such as integrated applications and web servers that make assembled web pages available to a user over the internet. Integrated applications are provided that are integrated through business logic layer described in detail below. Web interface also manages the content and context of web pages delivered to a user using content manager and context manager . For example while content manager manages the substance of information that is directed to a user context manager controls how the information is displayed. For example context manager can add corporate logos and modify the appearance of graphical user interface . Thus content manager can specifically tailor the appearance of GUI for specific users e.g. users accessing system through an open web system such as Yahoo or from a customized system at a private company such as IBM by taking generic white label content controlled by content manager and formatting it to have a custom look and feel using context manager .

Web interface also includes a proxy component that interfaces with a proxy server to permit use of external applications as contrasted to integrated applications . A user can thus view external applications within a frame for example in GUI by such information being imported and integrated into system via proxy server and proxy component .

As further depicted in system further includes a business logic layer . As depicted business logic layer includes framework servers that run programs which provide the data to populate graphical user interface . Framework servers house and run an online framework engine a business logic engine and a channel syndication engine .

Online framework engine delineates the framework that applies across all applications being run. For example framework engine designates entitlements to users. Entitlements can include for example permissions that a user can grant to an advisor such as the user s accountant to grant the accountant access to selected records of the user to assist the accountant in performing services for the user. Entitlements can also be established more generally by a system administrator to designate which applications and or portions of applications a user has access to and in what capacity. For example based on a certain level of service a user may be entitled to receive stock market quotes on a periodic or delayed basis as contrasted to a real time basis. Thus even though system may be able to access real time stock market quotes as needed by way of back end services layer that contains such data if the user is not entitled to such data at the user s designated service level such data will not be provided to the user.

Online framework engine also controls segmentation of data and applications to tailor appropriate content for GUI depending on the particular user. For example depending on the demographics of a user e.g. gender age marital status retirement income bracket health condition geography group affiliation e.g. AARP and the like stored in a user profile framework engine can specify content that is appropriate to the user. For example if system includes a profile for a user indicating that the user has high cholesterol is near retirement and has children in college the available data that could be sent to the user is segmented to filter out data such as news releases advertisements services and the like that may be of interest to the user such as those directed to managing high cholesterol retirement savings and managing college expenses. As such content segmentation can be customized by market segment product subscription client tiers and groups. Framework engine provides dynamic evaluation of entitlements and role membership and adjusts content system behaviors and basic site functionality accordingly.

Online framework engine also controls aspects relating to system security. For example online framework engine may include controls for determining which user data such as account numbers is encrypted. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention as depicted in security in system is composed of multiple layers or zones including physical infrastructure. Platform communications application and integration protocols are utilized to facilitate communication within system as are known in the art. Physical infrastructure platforms and communications security may include multiple network zones firewalls and other intrusion detection devices proxies for potentially vulnerable integration points and platform features e.g. UrlMon .NET request validation for specific vulnerabilities.

In accordance with a further aspect of the embodiment of the online application includes additional security features including but not limited to mandatory input filtering that restricts data flowing to components extensive logging standards for data validation and manipulation to minimize common vulnerabilities encrypted configurations and non persistence of operating data on Web and Application tiers of system .

Business logic engine contains the system logic for running the integrated applications described above. Moreover business logic engine can identify information stored for example in layer in response to a user request. For example business logic engine can retrieve information relating to financial and health accounts of a user each account being associated with a corresponding financial or health institution. Business logic engine also includes means e.g. software for generating a set of information based upon the financial and health data. A resulting amalgamation of the financial and health data can be sent through the web interface to be displayed to the user or advisor for example or can be embodied into an alert if desired and sent to the user.

Thus if a user requests that a cost benefit projection be computed for example business logic engine controls the application to make the computation and provides the requested result to web interface which in turn sends a signal to client layer where a user sees the requested result.

If desired a signal generated using information from the financial and health accounts can be related to a set of actionable information that is to say information can require action of a user. For example business logic engine of system can generate actionable information in the form of a prompt requesting that the user review the amount of coverage of life insurance to see if it is adequate.

If desired a user can perform an operation can be performed on the set of actionable information. For example the user can press a button on the prompt including actionable information to review the amount of insurance coverage at that time or can press a button declining the invitation. If desired other myriad options can be provided such as requesting a reminder to revisit the issue later. By way of a further example the user can select an option to use a decision support tool selected by the user. Preferably the decision support tool permits computation of a financial projection a health projection or a lifestyle projection relevant to the actionable information. By way of example the decision support tool may be selected from the group consisting of a calculator a goal tracker a college savings calculator a drug cost saving calculator health and disease cost calculators that can project the lifetime cost of a particular health condition and combinations thereof. Preferably the actionable information relates to at least one of a financial or a healthcare decision.

A decision associated with the user in response to the set of actionable information can thus be received. The financial and or health information may be updated in layer based upon the decision of the user.

If desired an alert can be programmed by the user or advisor to remind the user of action that the user should take or to inform the user about available products or services for example. The alert may relate to a health decision or a financial decision for example. The alert may be sent to the user by way of electronic mail pop up messages or text messaging among others. An alert may be contrasted from actionable information at least to the extent that actionable information requires a user to take a step to respond whether that be clicking on a prompt responding within or after a certain period and the like.

It will be appreciated that a hybrid prompt can be provided in the form of an alert that includes actionable information that must be acted upon within a predetermined time period e.g. ten seconds . Failure to respond within the time period could remove the option to respond but leave the alert portion of the message on the screen for display to the user.

Any suitable subject matter may be made the subject of an alert. By way of further example quality indicators or alerts can also be provided. Specifically personal health record information may be combined with information from drug to drug interaction databases supplied for example by Micromedex databases owned by Thomson Healthcare to identify drug interactions that would be applicable to individual consumers.

In a similar vein system can be equipped with fraud prevention measures to protect users of the system. For example system can be adapted to monitor accounts e.g. financial and health of the user e.g. consumer advisor to detect unusual activity. Detected unusual activity can be reported to a consumer user and or their advisor by way of actionable item and or alerts as described herein. If an advisor is suspected of engaging in unscrupulous activity or for other reasons any activity relating to accounts to which a consumer has entrusted some degree of control to an advisor can be reported to the consumer for monitoring purposes.

The financial account viewed using system may be any financial account that can be viewed on a computer. For example the financial account may include a bank account a tax account a mortgage account education account credit account brokerage account a trust account and a retirement account for example. The health account may include any health account that can be viewed using a computer such as a benefits record a health insurance account a disability insurance account a long term care insurance account a medical record account a health savings account and a pharmaceutical record account among others. Moreover the health or financial accounts can include government provided information such as social security accounts Medicaid or Medicare accounts tax withholding accounts and the like. In addition other governmental information can be integrated and processed with the financial and or health information such as court judgments governmental and private liens and the like.

It will be further understood that systems made in accordance with the invention can combine information from any number of financial health and other accounts to create a useful end result for the user using any one of a variety of system tools. System tools can include calculators projectors charting applications portfolio builders indices and the like as are known in the art.

In accordance with a further aspect of system transactions can be performed at the request of the user or the user s designee e.g. relative or advisor . If desired transactions performed using data relating to the health of the user may be transacted in accordance with a preselected standard. For example the preselected standard may be one established in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA or other governmentally or privately instituted standards.

Moreover to the extent that any information contained in or processed by system is subject to privacy laws rules contractual obligations and or regulations well known procedures can be implemented to comply with all applicable national international and foreign laws rules contractual obligations and or regulations and to safeguard the information as are known in the art.

Channel syndication engine provides the ability to syndicate any of the content on system for display to a user in accordance with predetermined conditions. For example syndication engine provides a means for customizing generic white label content for a particular end user. Thus if the content is to be provided through a customized platform style guides housed in syndication engine accordingly facilitate rebranding of the white label content to suit a particular situation.

As mentioned above external application can also be accessed by system . External application can take on myriad forms and is suitable for incorporation into system as long as they can be displayed through GUI . For example external application can be used to manipulate data such as by computing financial projections. Moreover external application can be an external advertisement serving application that distributes particular advertisements to a user based on their demographics such as their health condition and corresponding pharmaceuticals that a given consumer may be using.

As depicted in data access layer separates business logic layer from back end services layer for added security. Data access layer includes a distributed data bus and a cache management engine . Data access layer also acts as a liaison between business logic layer and back end services layer . Specifically cache management engine accesses content in the form of data and or services through bus from servers or other sources for example in back end services layer . The cache management engine then formats and normalizes the content received so that it can be processed by business logic layer . Cache management engine also intelligently manages the content that it obtains from layer . For example if a stock quote is requested by a user the cache management engine will examine the request to see if a real time quote has been requested or if a delayed quote would be sufficient. If a real time quote is needed cache management engine will request an updated quote from a database in layer . If a delayed stock quote is acceptable e.g. a quote that can be up to 20 minutes old cache management engine can compare the stock quote stored in the cache and determine if it is recent enough to be sent to the user in response to the user request. If the quote is sufficiently recent it can be sent in response to the request. However if the quote stored in cache is too old a new quote will be requested by cache management engine from layer .

As further depicted in system also includes back end services layer . As depicted layer includes online data stores proprietary data services an entitlements database and client systems . Online data stores can include one or more databases containing a variety of data content such as data relating to profiles of users market financial data and other data as desired. Proprietary data services such as those provided by a company that manages system can also be provided. An entitlements database can also be provided to store entitlements relating to particular users and advisors as discussed above to permit access to only selected information. Client systems can include for example third party systems from which other proprietary data and services are obtained such as services that aggregate accounts of a user health and or financial databases on which user information is stored and the like.

Client system content can be managed by integrating a client s Document Management System DMS or other workflow system into system . Such integration permits a client to directly publish content to a website generated by system . depicts the flow of such publication. As depicted in step content authors upload or otherwise create content in client DMS . Authors will tag content to specify who has permission to view the content. A communication link is then established between client DMS and an online receiver of system to upload the content to system . Content is then directed to a server group that formats and organizes the data into a form that content management servers can use. Server group can run software such as Microsoft BizTalk server software or other appropriate software. Content is then directed to end users such as consumers by way of parallel redundant servers .

As further depicted in item depicts exemplary content that may be accessed and manipulated by a consumer or their designee through portal . While the content can be managed by way of third party relationships between the administrator of system and third party information vendors it will be recognized that other content sources can be used. For example if desired system can be adapted to incorporate information from the internet such as by way of an internet search engine . Moreover if desired a consumer can specify that a particular vendor be used to supply information that the administrator of system does not have a pre established relationship with. For example the user can request information from online sources such as newspapers or private networks such as educational libraries or other online information stores as desired.

As further depicted in based on information on dashboard a consumer may wish to take action for example in response to changes in account balances news alerts or a message from an advisor. Accordingly a variety of client actions may be carried out by consumer as depicted in and as described in detail with respect to .

A user such as an advisor on the other hand can also log into system to access records of and or communicate with one or more clients as depicted in . Advisor may select a client from a client list in order to access information relating to a particular client. When logged into portal advisor can access a suite of functions. For example an advisor can upload credentials into advisor database to make suitable potential clients aware of their services. Client information can be accessed by advisor if they have been given permission by the consumer to view their pertinent information by way of entitlement application . If given permission by the client consumer advisor may view the complete financial picture of consumer to permit advisor to give the most appropriate advice to the consumer. Advisor can be granted permission by consumer to review various information in lock box to assist advisor in advising consumer . Advisor has access to similar tools as consumer and can use such tools to review proposals made by consumer and to modify or otherwise create plans for consumer to review further. Alerts engine can similarly be configured by advisor to send alerts to one or more clients. Advisor can also have access to the latest news and research to assist advisor in advising clients via decision support portal . It will be recognized that varying levels of service may be provided to consumer and advisor as appropriate. For example a baseline level of services can be provided to a consumer or advisor for a minimal fee or no fee with the possibility to upgrade to higher levels of service for a fee. If given permission by a consumer advisor can monitor various portfolios for consumer and engage in appropriate transactions.

A variety of advisors can be given access to a user s account as the user desires. For example financial and health advisors can be given access to system . For example financial advisors such as stockbrokers financial planners accountants credit analysts real estate agents attorneys guardians an individual with a power of attorney and the like may be granted access by a user. The health advisor may include for example a doctor a health insurance agent a physical therapist a psychologist a nutritionist a therapist and a spiritual advisor among others. Information such as credentials and relevant experience of an advisor can be provided in advisor database to assist a user in selecting an advisor.

As depicted in advisor is provided with system functionality that is analogous to and complements that provided to a consumer as depicted in . As depicted advisor is similarly provided with a dashboard including a client account portal including information relating to one or more clients of the advisor. Dashboard also includes a news portal listing news of relevance to the advisor. Dashboard further includes an alert portal and a message portal including messages from the advisor s clients for example. As depicted in depending on what information is presented on the dashboard the Advisor may elect to take action in a variety of ways. For example the advisor may have received a message from a client and needs to mock up a scenario to return to the client. On the other hand the advisor may have been alerted that a required compliance form is due and now must start working to submit it on time. The advisor could have just finished looking over a client document and is ready to place it in the Lock Box for the client to review. The advisor might also notice that he holds only two thirds of his clients assets and is thus motivated to capture the remaining third for example. To facilitate these actions the advisor can access any one of the functions made available to him by system .

It will be appreciated that while system as embodied herein supports direct relationships between individuals e.g. consumer advisor it will be understood that systems made in accordance with the invention can support multiple relationships particularly in a non hierarchical fashion as depicted in . For example illustrates that system may result in creation of multiple parallel relationships between one or more advisors and one or more consumers . As depicted in from the standpoint of consumer multiple advisors and various content may be accessed as desired. Conversely as depicted in from the standpoint of a advisor multiple consumers clients may be accessed as well as various content as disclosed herein.

As depicted in an exemplary embodiment of a consumer s graphical user interface is depicted. As depicted in when a user logs in they are presented with a dashboard or summary view as mentioned above. In the embodiment of a user may select among a plurality of tabs along the top of GUI to view their health profile their wealth profile their goals tools and calculators advisors transactions and recommendations .

As depicted in dashboard includes a consumer profile window . Consumer profile may include pertinent information about the consumer including members of the consumer s family if desired. Such information can include vital statistics such as a user s current health conditions height weight family health history current prescriptions inoculations other aspects relating to preventive care and the like. Relative indices can be provided comparing the relative health and wealth of a user and or their household with an average or percentile value as desired. As further depicted in dashboard further includes a summary balance sheet window . As depicted balance sheet window depicts household and or individual net worth major assets and their corresponding values as well liabilities and their related balances. It will be appreciated that balance sheet window can be adapted and configured to include any asset or liability that may impact net worth as well as income. As depicted dashboard further includes a window displaying news and alerts for a consumer. Window includes an alert portion and a news portion . A user can redefine what types of alerts it receives by selecting edit options on each respective window. Alert window can include alerts specified by the user and or an advisor of the user relating for example to any suitable aspect of their finances health and or lifestyle. As depicted the user has been informed that there has been a change in the status of a goal of the user. News window can similarly include news relating to any topic of interest to a user. The user and or system may specify what news and alerts the user sees in window . Dashboard further includes a retirement account window showing the types of assets contained in the user s retirement account. As depicted dashboard also includes a health cost tracker and a goal tracker summary window . Goal tracker summary window can be configured by the user to track whatever goals that the user may have that appear in goal window described in detail below. As depicted in the goal tracker has been configured to send an alert to the alert window if a change in status occurs with respect to achieving one of the user s goals. As depicted in the user has been informed that there has been a change in the status of one of their goals so the user selects to view the goal window .

As depicted in the user s goals are depicted in a goal window . The user s goals can include further detail on the goals appearing in goal tracker summary window as well as other goals if desired. In the embodiment of the goal window includes a tabbed menu from which the user can select to view their wealth goals by selecting a wealth goal tracker a health goal tracker and a net worth tracker . A goal index window is provided disclosing a goal index to give the user an indication of his progress in achieving his goals. It will be appreciated that any financial wellness lifestyle or other goals e.g. professional educational spiritual scheduling goals and the like may be established in goal window and tracked accordingly. In the particular example depicted in the user has been informed that one of his goals will not be met. The system recognizes that the user needs to conserve expenses and suggests a recommended wealth strategy in recommendation window by advising the user to explore lowering his insurance costs. System further directs an advertisement into advertisement window directed to saving money on car insurance accordingly. The user then clicks on his health profile .

As depicted in the user s health profile is displayed. Health profile includes a summary health profile window including basic biographical information health plan and associated cost information a drug summary window listing the medications the user is currently on including refill dates a health and wellness index window providing a health risk score based in part on whether the user has been current in seeking preventive care a disease profile window indicating health conditions the user has as well as a health history summary window listing recent doctor visits. It will be appreciated that any suitable number of windows directed to any desired topics relating to be the health of a user may be displayed in health profile . The health profile also includes a submenu from which the user can select to view more detailed information regarding their health. In the particular example of the user elects to view further details on his current prescriptions by viewing Medication Details. 

A Medication Details window is presented in . Medication details window includes a prescription summary indicating the dosage quantity refill dates and refill and annual costs for each medication. A total annual medication cost is presented below summary . A medication alerts tab may be selected by the user to establish alerts relating to the users prescriptions or to store alerts relating to pertinent topics such as drug interactions. In the example of the user deletes Nexium from his list of medications and recomputes his total annual medication cost. As depicted in the user then selects a tools link and selects a health cost calculator to create a projection of his possible future health care costs. As depicted in the health cost calculator indicates to the user that his family s annual household healthcare costs could rise to about 35 000 by 2045 and that his personal healthcare costs could be about 47 000 annually when he reaches an age of 90 years.

As depicted in system further prompts the user by supplying information directed to related tools in window . An advertisement in advertisement window reminds the user that he is due for a medical screening. In accordance with the example of we are further informed that the user selects a drug cost calculator to determine if there are any additional medication options available to him.

Drug cost calculator is presented in . As depicted the user enters the name type and dosage of the drug he wants to research. In response the drug cost calculator returns an alternative drug having a much lower cost.

As depicted in a drug cost savings calculator is provided. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the invention described herein more broadly provides useful algorithms and methods to support the identification of potential cost savings for a consumer. By way of further example in the insurance context it may be determined that a consumer could save money by changing their auto or health insurance. For example system could be provided with data relating to past traffic incidents by user to help them find the most suitable lowest price auto insurance or by providing system with pertinent health data about the consumer system could identify potential health insurance cost savings.

With further reference to in response to discovering a lower cost possible alternative drug the user decides to look up the doctor that treats his underlying condition requiring the medication to give the doctor access to his health information on system . The user begins by selecting the appropriate tab to view his Advisors window . System can also indicate to the user whether any possible replacement drug may have any potential adverse interactions with other prescriptions or medicaments that user currently takes. Similarly information relating to other health information such as allergies such as to medications as well as other allergies can be entered into and accounted for by system in making recommendations to the user.

As depicted in after selecting option the user is presented with a screen including fields to add a doctor to the user s list of advisors. The user enters the doctor s name and then by selecting a search option searches to determine if the doctor already has an account on system . In response as shown in a result field presents possible matches to the search request. The user notes that the user s doctor already has an account and chooses to add the doctor to the user s list of advisors as depicted in . After completing this task the user selects the dashboard tab to display the dashboard and as shown in selects the transact tab to view his online accounts.

In further accordance with the invention a machine readable program on a computer readable medium containing instructions for controlling a system for managing multiple accounts associated with a user is provided. For purposes of illustration and not limitation the machine readable program is adapted to be read by processors for example in framework servers as depicted in and preferably comprises a portion of business logic . The computer program may be embodied either in software or in hardware such as a memory chip the system for framework servers to access when needed. Computer program is preferably embodied in software and run from framework servers .

The computer program may be written using techniques well known in the art. The computer program in accordance with the invention has instructions therein for operating a system such as system described herein. The program can include for example a first computer code segment for processing a first set of received information associated with identification of the user. The first set of information can include a variety of means for uniquely identifying the user as described herein. The program also includes a second computer code segment for identifying a second set of information in response to the first set of information the second set of information relating to a financial account associated with the user such as the types of financial accounts disclosed herein. The program further includes a third computer code segment for identifying a third set of information in response to the first set of information the third set of information relating to a health account associated with the user. As with the system of the invention described herein any one of a variety of health accounts may be accessed by the program of the invention. The program also includes a fourth computer code segment for generating a fourth set of information based upon the second set of information and the third set of information. The fourth set of information can comprise for example an amalgamation of financial and health information or a subset thereof as described herein. Program also includes a fifth computer code segment for sending a signal representative of the fourth set of information to the user or a designee of the user. The signal can be sent in the form of an actionable message an alert or the like.

The computer program provided in accordance with the invention can accomplish a variety of functions. By way of example the computer program can facilitate all functions of system described herein and similar systems and may be used to control the form and function of graphical user interface as embodied herein.

All statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

The block diagrams herein such as those depicted in represent conceptual views of illustrative circuitry and software embodying the principles of the invention. Thus the functions of the various elements shown in the Figures may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. The functions of those various elements may be implemented by for example digital signal processor DSP hardware network processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM and non volatile storage. Other hardware conventional and or custom may also be included.

In the claims hereof any element expressed as a means for performing a specified function is intended to encompass any way of performing that function including for example a a combination of circuit elements which performs that function or b software in any form including therefore firmware microcode or the like combined with appropriate circuitry for executing that software to perform the function. The invention as defined by such claims resides in the fact that the functionalities provided by the various recited means are combined and brought together in the manner which the claims call for. Applicants thus regard any means which can provide those functionalities as equivalent to those shown herein.

Similarly it will be appreciated that the system flows in the flow charts depicted in for example shown herein represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown. Moreover in the flowcharts shown herein the various blocks can be understood as representing not only processing and or other functions but alternatively as blocks of program code that carry out such processing or functions.

Systems made in accordance with the invention herein can be constructed for example using techniques similar to those described in copending U.S. patent application titled Pay For Access Legal Research System With Access To Open Web Content bearing Ser. No. 11 422 281 filed Jun. 5 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The methods and systems of the present invention as described above and shown in the drawings provide for a method system machine readable program and graphical user interface with superior functionality that can facilitate the management of wealth. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the embodiments of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention include modifications and variations that are within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

