---

title: Advertising middleware
abstract: A method and system for facilitating interaction with one or more advertisement functionalities is provided. An advertisement middleware provides advertisement functionalities for interfacing with one or more systems and components of an underlying device. The advertisement middleware includes a transport layer, an application programming interface and one or more functional modules. The functional modules may include a player module, a cache, a report module, a profile module, a loyalty module and a payment module. Each module may perform various advertising tasks for an advertisement application. In addition, use of a particular advertisement application may be tracked to provide incentives to developers to create advertisement applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135626&OS=09135626&RS=09135626
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09135626
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20060630
---
The invention relates generally to a method and a system for facilitating the distribution and access of electronic information. Specifically the invention relates to a system and method for providing advertising information to applications.

Advertising supported applications are increasing in popularity as advertisers and companies strive for new ways to reach the public or a specified segment thereof. Advertising supported application or adware is any software package which automatically plays displays or downloads advertising material to a computer after the software is installed on it or while the application is being used. Advertising supported applications are often small and unobtrusive to attract more users and appear less invasive. Companies often offer greater discounts or special offers through these applications as an incentive to use the advertising applications. Advertising supported applications have been developed for computing devices such as desktop computers laptops and even mobile devices such as Personal Data Assistants PDAs and cellular phones.

However with the ever increasing number of types and brands of computing devices developers of advertising supported applications often need to program the applications specifically for each device or architecture. Programming applications for each different type of device or architecture can be time consuming complex and costly for not only the developers but for the companies funding such ventures. As such some advertising applications may only exist for certain devices or types of devices limiting the reach of some advertisements. Further downloading applications that are not specifically designed for a user s device may cause significant technical issues with the device.

For the foregoing reasons a system and method of facilitating access to advertising functionality is needed.

Many of the aforementioned problems are solved by providing a method and system that provides an application programming interface for facilitating advertisement functionality. Application developers may create applications using functions and hooks provided by a standardized advertisement middleware. The advertisement middleware provides the functionality to interface with hardware and software components associated with a particular device. As such application developers do not need to cater their programming to a particular device or type of device. The advertisement middleware may contain various modules including an advertisement player an advertisement cache reporting profiling loyalty tracker and a payment component. Each module facilitates certain functions associated with displaying or otherwise providing an advertisement to an application. For example the player module may include programming that instructs a display of the underlying device to display or play one or more advertisements. The cache may store advertisements for faster retrieval.

In accordance with another aspect the application middleware may track loyalty of a user to a certain company or type of advertisement. A user may earn loyalty credit if for example they view and or click multiple advertisements from a certain company over a specified period of time. Alternatively loyalty credit may be earned if a user purchases a product that is advertised.

In accordance with still another aspect the middleware may further include a transport layer that implements multiple transport protocols. With the transport layer communications between an application and a content server for example may be significantly streamlined. In particular applications might not be required to know which servers use which communication protocol. As such applications may retrieve advertisements from a variety of servers using different communication protocols.

In yet another aspect advertising middleware may provide a payment model for developers. Specifically advertising middleware may keep track of clickthroughs or other forms of access of advertisements for each advertising application. Based on the number of click throughs associated with a particular advertising application the developer of the advertising application may be rewarded a specified payment. Thus various advertising payment models may be developed based on the effectiveness of advertising applications. The incentives may further motivate development of additional advertising applications.

These as well as other advantages and aspects of the invention are apparent and understood from the following detailed description of the invention the attached claims and the accompanying drawings.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention may be utilized across a broad array of networks and communication protocols. illustrates an example of a wireless communication system in which systems and methods according to at least some embodiments may be employed. One or more network enabled mobile devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone mobile terminal personal video recorder portable television personal computer digital camera digital camcorder portable audio device portable radio or combinations thereof are in communication with a service source through a broadcast network which may include the Internet or similar network and or a cellular network . The mobile terminal device may include a digital broadband broadcast receiver device. The service source may be connected to several service providers such as advertisement source that may provide their actual program content or information or description of their services and programs to the service source that further provides the content or information to the mobile device . The several service providers including advertisement source may include but are not limited to one or more television and or digital television service providers AM FM radio service providers advertisement servers and or providers SMS MMS push service providers Internet content or access providers.

In one or more arrangements broadcast network may broadcast advertisements from one or more service sources such as service source . Service source may obtain or receive advertisements from an advertisement server or provider. The advertisements may then be received by mobile terminal through the broadcast network and stored in a database for display to a user of terminal . In one example a broadcast service source may obtain revenue from displaying advertisements in their broadcasts. As such the broadcast service source may periodically retrieve advertisements from an advertisement source or database and broadcast the advertisement to a user population subscribed to the broadcast service. One method of broadcasting data is using IP datacasting IPDC . IPDC combines digital broadcasting and Internet Protocol. As such a variety of information and services may be transmitted using such a network and protocol.

The mobile device may also send and receive messages to and from the service source through the cellular network . The cellular network may include a wireless network and a base transceiver station transmitter . The cellular network may include a second third generation 2G 3G cellular data communications network a Global System for Mobile communications network GSM a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and or other wireless communication network such as a WLAN network. In one or more aspects communications through the cellular network may allow a service source to distribute advertisements on an individual basis. That is rather than broadcasting advertisements to an entire subscriber population the service source may obtain and distribute advertisements from an advertising source based on user interests usage statistics a user s most frequent time of use and the like. Alternatively or additionally mobile device may access either the broadcast network or cellular network to retrieve advertisements or other forms of content from a server or content provider . In one example device may request additional advertisements from an advertisement server in response to determining that no advertisements are stored in device .

In accordance with one aspect of the invention mobile device may include a wireless interface configured to send and or receive digital wireless communications within cellular network using base transceiver station transmitter . The information received by mobile device through the cellular network or broadcast network via a cellular network tower may include user input or selection for example in an interactive transmission applications services electronic images content requests audio clips video clips and or WTAI Wireless Telephony Application Interface messages. As part of cellular network one or more base stations not shown may support digital communications with receiver device while the receiver device is located within the administrative domain of cellular network .

As shown in mobile device may include processor connected to user interface memory and or other storage and display . Mobile device may also include battery speaker and antennas . User interface may further include a keypad touch screen voice interface four arrow keys joy stick stylus data glove mouse roller ball touch screen or the like. In addition user interface may include the entirety of or portion of display .

Computer executable instructions and data used by processor and other components within mobile device may be stored in a computer readable memory . The memory may be implemented with any combination of read only memory modules or random access memory modules optionally including both volatile and nonvolatile memory. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling mobile device to perform various functions. Alternatively some or all of the computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown .

Mobile device may be configured to receive decode and process digital broadband broadcast transmissions that are based for example on the Digital Video Broadcast DVB standard such as DVB H DVB T or DVB MHP through a specific DVB receiver . The mobile device may also be provided with other types of receivers for digital broadband broadcast transmissions. Additionally receiver device may also be configured to receive decode and process transmissions through FM AM Radio receiver WLAN transceiver and telecommunications transceiver . In one aspect of the invention mobile device may receive radio data stream RDS messages.

In an example of the DVB standard one DVB 10 Mbit s transmission may have 200 50 kbit s audio program channels or 50 200 kbit s video TV program channels. The mobile device may be configured to receive decode and process transmission based on the Digital Video Broadcast Handheld DVB H standard or other DVB standards such as DVB Multimedia Home Platform DVB Satellite DVB S DVB Terrestrial DVB T or DVB Cable DVB C . Similarly other digital transmission formats may alternatively be used to deliver content and information of availability of supplemental services such as ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee NTSC National Television System Committee ISDB T Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting Terrestrial DAB Digital Audio Broadcasting DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting FLO Forward Link Only or DIRECTV. Additionally the digital transmission may be time sliced such as in DVB H technology. Time slicing may reduce the average power consumption of a mobile terminal and may enable smooth and seamless handover. Time slicing consists of sending data in bursts using a higher instantaneous bit rate as compared to the bit rate required if the data were transmitted using a traditional streaming mechanism. In this case the mobile device may have one or more buffer memories for storing the decoded time sliced transmission before presentation. The power of receiver between bursts may be turned off to reduce power consumption.

In one or more configurations a user of a mobile device may agree to receive advertisements on her mobile device. For example a user may download a widget application that provides deals or discounts for allowing advertisements from organizations or companies to be displayed on the user s device. To facilitate the display of advertisements in widget applications and other applications the user s mobile terminal may include an advertisement middleware that provides a widget or application API that allows an application to call standardized functions for retrieving advertisements or performing other advertising tasks. A widget as used herein relates to a user interface element and or application that provides information such as advertising or weather information to a user based on a variety of factors such as user preferences. Examples of advertising widgets and other advertising applications are described in a U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 453 146 entitled AUCTIONS FOR WIDGET SPACE filed Jun. 15 2006 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Middleware in general refers to an entity that facilitates interaction between software and or hardware components. For example a middleware may perform processes such as mediation between an application and a network to manage the interaction between disparate applications across heterogeneous platforms. The advertisement middleware described herein provides a variety of functionalities associated with the display and retrieval of advertisements. In particular the middleware relieves the widget or other application from having to implement the middleware functionalities. Instead the application may call various functions of the middleware to accomplish various advertisement tasks or processes. Advertisement middleware may be stored in a computer readable medium in a user s mobile terminal along one or more advertisement applications that may interface with the middleware. The advertisement application or widget may display advertisements or other information on display . Advertisement middleware may also include components for interfacing with one or more hardware components such as WLAN transceiver telecom transceiver and display to perform one or more tasks.

The middleware component may also interact with a server or through a transport layer which may include a plurality of transport mechanisms and or protocols including HTTP FTP SMS Bluetooth WLAN Radio Frequency Identification RFID RSS or 2D Barcode. For example middleware component may determine that there are no advertisements available in the device s storage. As such middleware may connect to an advertisement server to request additional advertisements. The request may be issued through the transport layer which may provide multiple protocols for making such a request. In another example middleware may periodically update an advertisement server with loyalty information associated with a particular user or device through the transport layer . In general transport layer may facilitate any communications with external devices or entities.

Alternatively or additionally middleware component may include or interact with a hardware API to instruct various hardware components to perform certain functions or tasks. In one or more instances an application may call a DISPLAY ADVERTISEMENT function. In response middleware may interface with a display component through the hardware API to display a specified advertisement. The processes and interfaces shown in are for illustrative purposes and those of skill in the art will appreciate that middleware component may support additional processes components and interfaces in addition to those shown.

Further middleware component exposes one or more APIs to application programs and executing on the mobile terminal device. Application programs and may be implemented on a variety of platforms including Symbian and J2ME. Each application program and may contain predefined programming to facilitate interfacing with the middleware component using the exposed APIs. The functional APIs associated with middleware may be published to the public or a group of developers to allow them to implement the proper programming in applications and to utilize the functionalities of middleware . Thus applications and might not need to implement the functionalities already provided by the middleware component . For example applications might not need to include programming to perform functions such as storing user profiles and interfacing with software and hardware subsystems. Advantages of using the functionalities of component may include a reduction in load on the overall operating system of the underlying device.

As described above functional API may interface with one or more application level programs not shown . This interaction may be controlled and or directed by a user of the mobile terminal device on which the one or more applications are executing via one or more end user interfaces. Function calls and requests by the applications through functional API may be routed directly to the module of the middleware component to which it corresponds as further described below. Alternatively or additionally the middleware component may include a manager module not shown that initially receives the request or input from the application via the functional API and directs the request to the applicable module of the middleware component . While specific APIs are called out and described herein those of skill in the art will appreciate that additional or different APIs may be used.

Player module in an illustrative embodiment is responsible for displaying or otherwise providing one or more advertisements to the application. Player module may receive a request from an application via the functional API to display or provide advertisements. In response player module may extract from the request one or more parameters such as the type of advertisement to be provided e.g. full screen banner ticker or widget duration for displaying or playing advertisement position and or size of advertisement to be displayed and interval for refreshing the advertisement or for providing new advertisements. Some parameters may be optional and may be used with pre defined default values if left unspecified.

Player module may subsequently select one or more advertisements in accordance with the parameters from a cache module that stores advertisements. Cache module may be implemented as a database with retrieval functions to facilitate the selection of advertisements based upon the parameters. If cache module is empty or does not contain any advertisements fitting the parameters requested by the application player module or cache module may retrieve one or more advertisements from a server e.g. server of via a transport mechanism in accordance with the parameters specified in the initial request. Additional parameters may be extracted from the device such as usage and user profile information and may be provided to the server to facilitate delivery of optimized content.

For example parameters relating to gender may be extracted from user profile information to determine the advertisement preferences based upon the gender of the user. These parameters may be used to retrieve or place a higher priority for retrieving advertisements targeted to a male audience and or not retrieve or place a lower priority in retrieving advertisements targeted exclusively to a female audience. Additionally or alternatively the cache module may periodically retrieve new advertisements from the server based on previously used parameters.

For example the usage information transmitted to the server may reveal that a significant portion of advertisements being displayed in an application has been regarding sports equipment in a banner type advertisement. The cache module may periodically e.g. every five hours retrieve new advertisements from the server regarding sports equipment in a banner type format. Alternatively the cache module may opt to retrieve non sports equipment related advertisements to provide more variety to the cache pool. By pre fetching content future retrieval of advertisements from the cache by the player module may be greatly expedited.

Additionally or alternatively the cache module may periodically retrieve content from nearby servers based upon changes in the mobile device s location such as automatically retrieving new advertisements from a nearest content server with respect to the mobile device. For example a user at a supermarket may receive advertisements on the weekly specials at the supermarket on her mobile device that were retrieved by the cache module via a transport mechanism e.g. WLAN from an advertising server located in the store. Retrieved advertisements may be stored in cache module for later use by player module .

Once player module has received one or more advertisements in accordance with the parameters from cache module or an external advertisement server player module may display or play the advertisement in the application or otherwise provide the one or more advertisements to the requesting application. In one or more arrangements the advertisement may include an animation or video clip. In such arrangements the advertisement may be played using various hardware devices including a display and speakers of the device.

Report module monitors and tracks usage of the middleware component and the middleware modules. Report module may receive or collect usage information from other middleware modules and or . The usage information may include for example which advertisements have been provided by player module to the requesting application or user. The information may be gathered at any desired time e.g. periodically whenever content is requested etc. and stored in cache module or another database. Middleware component e.g. via report module may expose one or more APIs to allow an application to access and or retrieve usage information from the database or allow the application to request authorization initiation and or stoppage of the usage monitoring. Additionally information collected by report module may further be transmitted to one or more advertisement servers. With the collected information the servers may for example analyze statistics of service usage.

Profile module stores and manages user profile information including user behavior and interactions and user preferences. Some or all of the information may be gathered from another middleware module e.g. report module . In one example middleware component via profile module may expose one or more APIs to allow an application and user to update the user or device s profile information including preferences. Profile information may also be transmitted to a server e.g. via player module to facilitate retrieval of targeted advertisements from the server. For example profile module may collect data regarding the frequency with which the user or device requests and views advertisements. Profile module may further collect information related to what types of advertisements are typically viewed and or requested. Using such data relevant advertisements may be retrieved from an advertisement server.

Loyalty module stores and manages user loyalty information to facilitate providing the user with rewards or incentives for certain user interactions with advertisements. Some or all of the information used and or stored by loyalty module may be gathered from another middleware module e.g. report module or from the advertisements e.g. rewards specified in metadata associated with the advertisements . Middleware component e.g. via loyalty module may expose one or more APIs to allow applications and or the user to access the loyalty information. Additionally loyalty information may be transmitted to the server which may subsequently relay the information to the appropriate advertisers. For example user interactions such as following a link in an advertisement or making a purchase with an advertiser may entitle the user to rewards including receiving extra mobile minutes discounts from the advertiser or application specific rewards e.g. extra lives in a video game application .

Payment module stores and manages payment information. For example payment module may store and manage payment data to facilitate payment of fees to application developers for advertisements provided to the user via one or more applications a developer created. For example developers may be paid based on the number of views or click throughs the advertisements generated and or commission based on sales transactions. Some or all of the information may be gathered from another middleware module e.g. report module . The information may further be transmitted to an advertising server to facilitate payment processing.

Each block within component may be implemented in software via computer executable instructions stored in a memory or via hardware e.g. as one or more ASICs or the like. The functional modules illustrated in are but one possible embodiment as functionality may be combined across modules or split to create even more functional modules. Some modules may be optional and additional modules may be added. The scope of the invention is not limited to the illustrative embodiment of .

For example the requesting second application may be assigned a unique identifier to differentiate the requesting second application from other applications e.g. the aforementioned first application. In step the middleware component may receive a request for one or more advertisements including values associated with a list of parameters such as type duration position and interval from the application via a functional API. This request may be sent directly to a player module or alternatively to a manager module which directs the request to the player module. In step the middleware component or a module thereof searches a cache for one or more advertisements in accordance with the parameters. In step a determination is made as to whether the cache contains a relevant advertisement matching the specified parameters.

If the cache is empty or no advertisements are identified as fitting the parameters from the cache in step the middleware component may then in step transmit a request for one or more advertisements to an advertising server via a transport mechanism such as HTTP. In step one or more advertisements are received from the advertising server through the transport layer and stored in the cache. In step the selected advertisements are displayed to the user according to for example the parameters received in step . Alternatively if a relevant advertisement is available in the cache from step the relevant advertisement is retrieved from the cache in step and displayed in step . In step the middleware component may receive a deregistration message from the second application via an NAD DEREGISTER function if for example the application is being closed by a user. In one or more arrangements if the middleware component is not being used by other application the middleware component may be unloaded from memory. Where other application s are still registered or communicating with the middleware component the middleware might not be unloaded. Alternatively the middleware component may remain resident in memory until the mobile device is powered off.

The methods and features recited herein may further be implemented through any number of computer readable mediums that are able to store computer readable instructions. Examples of computer readable mediums that may be used include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic storage and the like.

The following example provides an illustrative implementation of certain aspects of the present invention. A developer has invested a great deal of time resources and money into producing a massive multi player game that runs on mobile devices and wishes to generate revenue from the game. The developer could charge a price for purchasing the game or a periodic subscription fee to play the game but such business models would likely not reach as wide a user base as a game distributed without charge. Thus the developer may instead or additionally as an option offer a version of the game free of charge but one that is supported through advertisements displayed in the game. The developer could implement such functionality directly into the game but doing so would be costly and complex as the developer will have to account for various software and hardware platforms advertisement formats server specifications etc. Instead the developer may simply implement a function in the game e.g. GET ADVERTISEMENT to call the advertisement middleware to display advertisements according to any desired parameters.

For example the game may request that ticker type TYPE advertisements be displayed at the bottom of the game screen POSITION to minimize obstruction of the game while the game is being played DURATION with a one minute refreshment rate for new advertisements INTERVAL . Such an example shows four parameters for displaying the advertisement. The player module of the middleware upon receiving the request from the game selects from the cache module advertisements fitting the parameters i.e. ticker type. If the cache is empty or no content is selected as fitting the parameters provided the cache module downloads new advertisements e.g. via HTTP from an advertising server. Additional information from other middleware modules is transmitted to the server to ensure that advertisements downloaded are targeted to the user such as user profile information gathered from user registration in the game. Once advertisements are selected by the player module either from the cache or from the server they are displayed to the user in the game according to the other parameters requested e.g. bottom of screen. As such the developer registers this application with the advertising server and sets up an account where future earnings may be credited.

Assume for example that an advertisement for a MP3 player is displayed in the game. The user of the mobile device decides to follow the link in the advertisement and liking what she sees purchases the MP3 player. The user profile module tracks the interaction e.g. via the report module and updates the user profile information to reflect the purchase click through. This information may be transmitted to an advertising server by the middleware to retrieve future advertisements relating to this purchase click through such as accessories for MP3 players other portable players etc. The loyalty module tracks the purchase and rewards the player in the game such as giving the player some game currency with the amount dependent upon the purchase price e.g. higher purchases are rewarded by higher awards or the number of click throughs or ad views. Additionally the user may be given future discounts on products purchased from the same advertiser. Finally the payment module tracks the view click through and purchase generated by this advertisement and transmits the information to the advertising server which credits the developer s account for any revenue generated from the view and click through and commission fee associated with the purchase.

Such an implementation benefits all parties involved. Users can play the game for free and receive bonuses rewards or discounts for interacting with advertisers. A developer can capitalize on revenue opportunities that otherwise would not be possible through traditional business avenues or are practically unfeasible given the complexity of implementing advertising functionality directly into its game. Finally advertisers can reach a vast consumer base for relatively little cost and gains wide exposure from users interacting with the advertisements.

The present invention has been described in terms of preferred and exemplary embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure.

