---

title: Systems and methods for collecting particles from a large volume of gas into a small volume of liquid
abstract: Systems and methods for collecting particles are provided. A representative system includes an aerosol-into-liquid collector that stores a collection liquid. The aerosol-into-liquid collector also includes a container, a gas inlet, a gas outlet and a source of vacuum pressure such that, when the source of vacuum pressure provides vacuum pressure at the gas outlet, gas with particles entrained therein is drawn into the container through the gas inlet. A well holds a volume of the collection liquid such that at least some of the particles entrained in the gas collide with the collection liquid and adhere thereto. Gas drawn into the container impinges upon an exposed surface of the collection liquid in the well. Forces exerted by the gas do not tend to push the collection liquid out of the well or cause the collection liquid to break into multiple droplets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07631567&OS=07631567&RS=07631567
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07631567
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060818
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention pertains generally to measurement of analyte in gas borne particles and particularly to collection of gas borne particles into a liquid so that analytes in the particles can be analyzed.

Devices are needed that can quickly detect and identify the presence of materials such as harmful materials in airborne particles. Airborne infectious agents such as bacteria and viruses can transmit diseases of humans other animals and plants. Some of these infectious agents as well as some protein toxins have been used as biological warfare BW agents. Some airborne proteins and pollens cause allergies. Here airborne particles or gas borne particles refer to both the solid particles and liquid droplets in an air or gas sample.

A group of particles in an air sample of either indoor or outdoor air may include many types of organic and inorganic materials and many types of bacterial and other biological materials. Individual particles may be homogenous or may be a complex mixture of materials. Identification of specific bacteria viruses or proteins and many other types of complex chemicals that may be mixed in atmospheric particles requires the collection of those particles so that they can be analyzed by appropriate techniques e.g. immunoassay for bacteria protein allergens and other biological materials culturing for bacteria and viruses mass spectrometry for organic chemicals. For identification of specific bacteria or proteins using biochemical methods the collection of these particles into a liquid is needed. For many types of analyses e.g. single particle infrared or Raman analysis collection of airborne particles onto filters or other solid surfaces is desired.

An overview of aerosols and some of the principles relevant for collection of aerosols are provided by William C. Hinds Aerosol Technology Properties Behavior and Measurement of Airborne Particles Wiley New York 1999 2edition which is herein incorporated by reference. Throughout this application we will refer to this as Hinds and may give specific pages equation numbers etc.

Investigators have worked for years to develop instruments for collecting aerosol particles into liquids. The literature describing different methods is large. Methods for collection of airborne particles including methods for collection of particles into liquids have been reviewed by M. L. Muilenberg Sampling Devices Immunology and Allergy Clinics of North America 23 337 355 2003 . Liquid impingement methods are widely used but the volumes of liquid needed for microfluidic analyses are typically far smaller than are used with liquid impingers.

Some methods of collecting particles into a liquid are briefly summarized in the paper by I. Belostotski V. V. Gridin I. Schecter and C. N. Yarnitzky Combined micro droplet and thin film assisted pre concentration of lead traces for on line monitoring using anodic stripping voltammetry Analytical Bioanalytical Chemistry 375 482 488 2003 especially in the introduction of that paper.

S. Zaromb High Throughput Liquid Absorption Air Sampling Apparatus and Methods U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 183 describes an apparatus to collect particles from air into liquid. In his apparatus 200 to 300 liters min of air are drawing asymmetrically into a cylinder. This rapid flow of air swirling in the cylinder causes the liquid at the bottom of the cylinder to rise and also swirl inside the cylinder. Then particles from the air are collected into the liquid. The apparatus uses at least a few milliliters of liquid per sample and evaporation may be expected to be significant.

P. T. Call V. M. Kenning C. Call J. G. Birmingham and D. J. Hammerstrom Impact Particulate Collector Using a Rotary Impeller for Collecting Particulates and Moving a Fluid U.S. Pat. No. 6 267 016 B1 2001 describe another means to collect particles into a liquid. The airborne particles impact upon a rotating surface. A liquid is injected into the cavity that contains this rotating surface and the particles may be washed into this liquid or may impact directly into the liquid.

P. J. Coyle T. A. Pletcher T. J. Davis and S. Mangru Method and Apparatus for Concentrated Airborne Particle Collection U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004 006907 A1 which is herein incorporated by reference describe an apparatus to collect particles from a large volume of air into a relatively small volume of liquid in which a hydrophobic membrane establishes a controllable air fluid boundary between a separation section where the particles are in air and a capture section in which the particles are transported in liquid. A corona charger may be used to charge the aerosol so that the particles may be focused into the liquid stream.

Agranovski V. Agranovski S. A. Grinsphun T. Reponen and K. Willeke Collection of Airborne Microorganisms into Liquid by Bubbling through Porous Medium Aerosol Science and Technology 36 502 509 2002 describe a means to collect aerosols by bubbling them through a fibrous filter that is immersed in water. They demonstrate very efficient collection for an air sample of up to 4 liters minute running for up to 8 hours.

D. A. Masquelier F. P. Milanovich and K. Willeke High Air Volume to Low Liquid Volume Aerosol Collector U.S. Pat. No. 6 520 034 B1 which is herein incorporated by reference provide an apparatus to efficiently collect particles from a high volume e.g. 225 Lpm of air into a collecting liquid having a volume not greater than about 100 to 300 microliters. They provide a means to reduce the loss of the collection liquid which they need to reduce because they impinge 225 liters min of air onto this liquid in order for the particles in the air to be transferred to the liquid. This impinging of air into the liquid causes some of the liquid to form airborne droplets and some of the liquid to evaporate. They collect for re use the liquid droplets but not the evaporated liquid. The device is small typically 2 liters lightweight typically less than 1 Kg and has low power requirements.

V. V. Gridin I. Litani Barzilai M. Kadosh and I. Schecter A Renewable Liquid Droplet Method for On Line Pollution Analysis by Multi Photon Ionization Analytical Chemistry 69 2098 2102 1997 which is herein incorporated by reference describe collection of gasses and aerosol particles into a pendant water droplet where they are analyzed. The collection efficiency is not expected to be large but would be sufficient for cases where particles that are in high concentration and or when the collection times are long.

V. Gartstein and A. D. Willey Dynamic Electrostatic Aerosol Collection Apparatus for Collection and Sampling Airborne Particulate Matter U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004 0089156 A1 published May 13 2004 describe a method of collection of aerosol particles by passing them through a spray of charged droplets that act as electrostatic collectors. The particles may be given a charge opposite to that of the droplets to enhance the collection efficiency. The liquid is re circulated and is chosen to have a low volatility to reduce evaporative losses. See also J. B. Fenn s Electrospray Air Sampler U.S. Patent Application Publication 2004 0023411 A1 published Feb. 5 2004.

Systems and methods for collecting particles are provided. In this regard an embodiment of such a system comprises an aerosol into liquid collector. The aerosol into liquid collector is operative to position a collection liquid to capture particles entrained in a gas. The aerosol into liquid collector comprises a nozzle and a well. The nozzle is operative to direct the gas with the particles entrained therein at a velocity of at least 10 meters per second. The well is operative to hold a volume of the collection liquid and is positioned such that at least some of the particles entrained in the gas collide with an exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and adhere to the volume of the collection liquid. The gas with the velocity of at least 10 meters per second departs the nozzle and impinges upon the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and does not push the volume of the collection liquid out of the well and does not cause the volume of the collection liquid to break into multiple droplets.

Another embodiment of a system for collecting particles comprises an aerosol into liquid collector that is positioned to capture particles entrained in a gas. The aerosol into liquid collector comprises an aerosol particle handling subsystem a reservoir of collection liquid and a well. The aerosol particle handling subsystem incorporates a gas tight container a gas inlet a gas outlet and a source of vacuum pressure the source of vacuum pressure being operative to draw gas with particles entrained therein into the gas tight container. The well communicates with the reservoir and is operative to hold a volume of the collection liquid. The well is positioned within the gas tight container such that the gas drawn into the gas tight container through the gas inlet is directed toward the well such that at least some of the particles entrained in the gas collide with an exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and adhere to the collection liquid located in the well. Forces exerted by the gas impinging upon the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid are relatively symmetric about an average normal to the exposed surface such that the gas does not tend to push the volume of the collection liquid out of the well. At least a portion of the well is hydrophobic with respect to the collection liquid such that the volume of the collection liquid tends to stay in the well.

An embodiment of a method for collecting particles comprises positioning a volume of a collection liquid within a well such that a surface of the collection liquid is exposed using surface tension of the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and the interfacial tension between the collection liquid and the well to retain the collection liquid within the well with an effect of the surface tension of the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and the interfacial tension between the collection liquid and the well exceeding an effect of gravity in maintaining the collection liquid within the well and directing a jet of gas which contains particles toward the volume of the collection liquid in the well such that the gas impinges upon the exposed surface wherein a velocity of the jet of gas impinging upon the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid permits particles of less than 2 micrometers in diameter to be collected into the collection liquid while the surface tension of the exposed surface of the volume of the collection liquid and the interfacial tension between the collection liquid and the well prevent the collection liquid in the well from breaking into multiple droplets and from being pushed from the well

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Systems and methods for collecting particles into liquid and analyzing the particles are provided. In this regard some embodiments potentially provide one or more of the following characteristics. That is some embodiments i are sensitive to small numbers of particles in the air ii are specific for the specific biomaterials the user desires to detect iii provide a rapid response with no more than a short delay e.g. 3 minutes between the time the analyte aerosol enters the instrument and the time the instrument indicates that an analyte has been identified iv can run continuously v has a low requirement for consumables and vi has little need for operator time. If an aerosol into liquid collector as part of an instrument to detect harmful aerosols can collect the particles from a large volume of gas such as air into a small volume of liquid then the overall instrument can be more sensitive and have a more rapid response. It is easier to detect a small number e.g. 20 suspect particles in a small e.g. 100 nL volume of liquid than it is to detect this number in a larger e.g. 0.1 mL of liquid. The cost of consumables such as antibodies or nucleic acid probes and enzymes can be so high that instruments that could run continuously and give a rapid response e.g. in 10 minutes are too expensive to run continuously.

If an instrument that collects and analyzes airborne particles does not lose a large amount of the collection liquid during the collection of the particles it can have a lower requirement for consumables. For applications this lower requirement for all liquids and consumable items is very important. For some other applications the collection liquid is as inexpensive as pure water and the instrument is used where water is readily available. Even for these applications the ability of the ALC to collect airborne particles into a small volume of collection liquid can still be highly valuable because the particles are collected into such a small volume of liquid that relatively little reagent must be added to the small volume of collection liquid in order to analyze the collected sample.

There is a need for improved aerosol into liquid collectors that collect the particles from a large volume of gas such as air into a small volume of liquid and that provides this small volume of liquid as an input to an instrument that can identify analytes in the particles or otherwise characterize the particles. The importance of this need is augmented by the progress being made in developing methods for sensitively measuring the amounts of analytes in very small sample volumes. For example developments in microfluidic techniques and lab on chip techniques provide hope for the development of a continuously running aerosol identifier that may a be highly specific b consume so little reagent for each analysis that it may be run essentially continuously and c lend itself to an automated analysis.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic diagram illustrating an embodiment of a system for collecting particles. In particular system incorporates an aerosol into liquid collector ALC . The ALC is immersed in a gas such as the atmosphere having particles therein. Generally the particles are of many types. For instance the particles may be liquid solid or a mixture of liquid and solid. Some of these particles may be particles of interest POI . The purpose of the ALC is to collect particles from gas into a collection liquid CL .

The particles to be collected into the CL have sizes within a preselected range of sizes. In some embodiments the smaller size of the preselected range of particle sizes is about a 1 micrometer diameter. In other embodiments the smaller size of this preselected range of sizes is about 0.4 micrometer diameter. For many of the envisioned embodiments the smaller end of the preselected range of sizes is somewhere between 0.1 micrometer diameter and 3 micrometer diameter. Particle diameter for nonspheres is approximate and is similar to aerodynamic particle size or average diameter in most cases of atmospheric particles and particles which are not highly eccentric.

Embodiments may also collect particles that have sizes outside the preselected range of sizes. Because the methods used here for collecting the particles into the CL are based on impaction of particles into the CL the larger particles can be easier to collect than the smaller particles. Methods and apparatus for removing particles from a volume of air or an air sample are well known and so we do not discuss the removal of large particles e.g. particles larger than 10 or 50 micrometer diameter but will instead focus upon the smaller end of the preselected range of sizes.

The CL used could be water or some other liquid. In the descriptions here we emphasize aqueous solutions because water is inexpensive and biochemical assays are usually done in aqueous solutions. For some other applications a non polar hydrophobic CL may be more appropriate for example for the collection of atmospheric particles for real time analyses of nonpolar organic compounds. Some main parameters that may be relevant in choosing a CL for different applications of the ALC are the compatibility of the CL for whatever analysis method will be used the polarity the ability to solvate ions or molecules of interest the viscosity the vapor pressure in the relevant temperature range and the cost.

In most of the description below we assume aqueous solutions having a viscosity similar to pure water or sea water. That is the CL does not have so much dissolved solute such as sucrose or so much additional other liquid such as glycerol that its viscosity is far larger than sea water. We make that assumption because of what we are assuming for the analyzer that this ALC feeds into and because if the viscosity is too high a variety of processes such as diffusion of antibodies to the surface of a bacterium in the CL can be far smaller and enzymes and antibodies may not bind as the do in more dilute aqueous solutions. The ability to impact particles into a CL without blowing the CL into dispersed puddles or little droplets is of course dependent upon the viscosity of the CL.

As shown in ALC includes an aerosol particle handling subsystem . The subsystem incorporates a container such as a gas tight container GTC a gas inlet a gas outlet and a source of vacuum pressure . For some embodiments such as those in which the gas is already at a relatively high pressure a GTC and source of vacuum pressure may not be needed. Preferably the gas inlet is a nozzle . In some embodiments the gas inlet is a tube pneumatically connected to a nozzle.

The source of vacuum pressure such as a vacuum pump preferably has a gas tight connection to the gas outlet . In this configuration when the source of vacuum pressure generates a vacuum gas is drawn into the container through the nozzle with as high a velocity as is desired. Thus the source of vacuum pressure functions as a means to create a difference in pressure across the gas inlet.

A collection liquid container CLC also is provided that includes a well . The well holds a volume of the collection liquid VCL . The well is positioned within the path of the gas which is now a jet of gas JOG depicted by arrow A so that when the vacuum generated is sufficient to draw the gas into the container with a sufficient velocity a substantial fraction of the particles within the preselected size range that are carried in the gas are caused to collide with an exposed gas liquid surface of the VCL. The particles that collide with the VCL may adhere to the VCL and thus may be collected by the VCL in the well.

A novel feature of this embodiment of the ALC is that it exhibits an ability to collect into a tiny volume of CL very small particles without blowing the CL out of the well or into little droplets or otherwise dispersing the CL as will be described in detail below. One reason to attempt to avoid blowing the CL out of the well is that this approach tends to reduce the amount of CL used. In some existing devices that collect particles into liquid the air impacts onto the liquid is such a way that the liquid is very much disturbed and droplets of the liquid are dispersed into the air where they tend to evaporate relatively rapidly. These droplets may be caught again and fed back into the larger volume of liquid but any particles collected into the CL may then be caught at least temporarily on whatever surfaces these droplets came in contact with. Preferably the CL is maintained in the well in one contiguous body. The CL in the well may extend a little outside the well so that particles in the JOG can deposit into the CL more efficiently but this extension outside the well is contiguous and controlled.

Typically the surface area of the gas liquid interface at maximum extension is not larger than 2 to 3 times the cross sectional area of the well and in some embodiments is only a little larger than the cross sectional area of the well. Note that the JOG does not blow the CL out of the well but in some embodiments the CL is pushed a little bit out of the well by applying pressure to the non exposed part of the CL in the well in order to expose a little more of the CL.

The well that holds the VCL is positioned sufficiently close to the nozzle so the velocity of the JOG near the gas liquid surface is sufficiently large so that a substantial fraction of the particles within the preselected range of sizes are caused to impact into the VCL at the gas liquid surface. Additionally the well is positioned relative to the nozzle such that the JOG impinges upon the gas liquid surface in such a manner that any forces on the VCL arising from the JOG are relatively symmetric about an average normal to the gas liquid surface. This is done so that the JOG does not tend to push the VCL out of the well. Note that in the exposed gas liquid surface of the volume of LC contained in the well is depicted. Arrow B represents the average normal to the gas liquid surface.

With reference to the collection of particles into the CL can be accomplished as follows. The CL is placed in the well such as by for example using a syringe or ejecting droplets from a droplet ejector. The VCL in the well is then exposed to the JOG exiting the nozzle .

A source of vacuum pressure creates a partial vacuum that draws gas and any particles contained therein through the gas inlet and into container . From there the gas exits the nozzle as a JOG and then exits the container through the gas outlet .

As the JOG passes through the nozzle the particles carried in this JOG move toward the VCL. The momentum of the particles moving toward the VCL increases the fraction of the particles combining with the VCL.

After the VCL has been exposed to the JOG and to the particles entrained in the JOG so that those particles may combine with it it is termed an exposed volume of the collection liquid EVCL .

To describe quantitatively the collection process and to understand the key design concepts relative to the velocity of the JOG the nozzle and well diameters the nozzle to CL surface distance and alignment and other parameters it is useful to state some of the key expressions that have been developed to describe the impaction process. Such expressions have been used in numerous articles and books for many years. Here we rely primarily on the summary as presented by Hinds especially pp. 121 128.

The Stokes number also known as the impaction parameter is defined for an impactor as Stk 9 where the nozzle exit has a circular cross section of diameter D the gas exits the nozzle with an average velocity of V and has a viscosity of the particle diameter is d and the particle density is . The Cunningham slip correction factor is C. The Stokes number is the ratio of the particle stopping distance in a gas moving in velocity V to the radius of the jet exiting the nozzle.

It has been found by computational analysis and experimental work see e.g. Hinds and the references he cites that for a variety of well designed nozzles greater than 50 of the particles having Stk 0.24 are impacted onto the surface below the nozzle and less than 50 of the particles having Stk

We define the impaction efficiency as the fraction of particles that impact onto the surface whether or not they remain attached to the surface. We define the collection efficiency as the fraction of particles that impact with the surface and remain attached at the end of the measurement. For most of the following discussion we will assume that for collection of particles into liquid essentially all the particles that collide with the liquid remain attached to the body of liquid in many cases penetrating through the surface of the liquid and being completely surrounded by liquid. So we will assume the collection efficiency and impaction efficiencies are the same. That assumption may not always be true but a we believe that in most cases it is possible to choose a liquid for the particle types of interest so that the collection and impaction efficiencies are similar if not almost identical and b even if the collection efficiency is for example only 60 of the impaction efficiency still the following analysis describes the key features of the present invention. Therefore we will continue using the term collection efficiency but with the understanding that for some cases e.g. a very hydrophobic particle colliding with a hydrophilic liquid such as water the collection efficiency may be lower.

In the expressions above all particles that impact onto the plate downstream from the nozzle are included in the collection efficiency. However we are interested in the particles that are collected into the CL that is in the well or protruding from the well. The deposition pattern of particles on a surface below a nozzle are illustrated in a paper by Virendra Sethi and Walter John Particle Impaction Patterns from a Circular Jet Aerosol Science and Technology 18 1 10 1993 herein incorporated by reference. In particular Sethi and John s they show that for Stk 0.8 the large majority of the particles are deposited within a circle having a radius of the nozzle exit. For particles having Stk 0.8 and a well with a diameter about equal to that of the nozzle edge should result in a collection efficiency of greater than 85 . Therefore we define das the diameter of the particles for which 85 of the particles are collected into a well for the case where the diameter of the well and of the nozzle are the same 9 Stk 4 and where from the Sethi and John data and from Hinds description and cited references Stkis about 0.8.

The above expressions for dand dillustrate that to achieve good collection efficiency for the smaller diameter particles we should decrease DIV or D Q. Here to decrease DIV we decrease D faster than V.

There are three main reasons we emphasize the decrease in D in order to achieve the small dand ddesired.

 a By decreasing D the volume of collection liquid in the well is decreased without needing to decrease the depth of the well further than it already is. The well depth is of course kept small to keep the total volume in the well small but it does not make sense to achieve a small volume by making an extremely thin layer in a well with large D at least in part because the evaporation would be a larger problem.

 b As the diameter of the nozzle exit D decreases there is a decrease in the spatial and temporal fluctuations in the JOG. Such fluctuations can tend to push the CL out of the well because they result in asymmetric forces on the CL in the well. For a circular pipe of diameter D carrying a gas that has a density and a viscosity of the Reynolds number is where V is the average velocity of the gas in the pipe. For air at 20 C. and 1 atmosphere pressure this expression is Re 66VD for V in m s and D in mm. Typically the end of a nozzle is a short circular pipe as illustrated in Hinds p. 124 FIG. 5.7 or in Sethi and John . If the D for the exit of the nozzle is 1 mm and V is 20 m s then Re 1320. Typically the flow in pipes is laminar for V

We rewrite the above expressions for dand din terms of Re as 9 Stk . That shows that for a given Re the cutoff size dis proportional to D. The above expression suggests that to keep the turbulence low the Re could be held constant while D is decreased.

The cutoff diameter d of a round jet impactor impacting particles onto a flat surface is about 1.3 m if the flow rate is 1 L min and the jet diameter exiting the nozzle is 1 mm diameter. See Hinds Section 5.5 especially the example on p. 127. For the problem we are primarily interested in where we want to keep the VCL very small the diameter of the hole should probably be about 1 mm or less. A flow rate through the nozzle of 1 L min is typical for the air to air virtual impactor concentrators we have used e.g. as purchased from DYCOR and is a rate that is very reasonable to design for. At a flow rate of 1 L min the velocity of the JOG exiting the 1 mm diameter exit of the nozzle is 21 m s.

An improved collection efficiency can be obtained if the distance from the nozzle to gas liquid surface of the liquid in the well is less than the nozzle diameter as shown by Grinshpun et al. J. Aerosol Sci. 36 575 591 2005 herein included by reference in studies using commercially available particle collectors which impact particles onto a solid flat surface e.g. adhesive covered plastic . In the case of the Impactor I 1 studied by Grinshpun et al. with a flow rate of 20 L min and nozzle diameter of 2.15 mm the flow velocity exiting the nozzle is 45 m s.

 c As the diameter of the well decreases the CL in the well tends to be more stable first because of the surface tension at the gas liquid interface and second because the material in the well and near the rim of the well and immediately outside the well can be chosen so as to result in a relatively low interfacial tension when the CL is in the well but result in a higher interfacial tension if the CL moves out of the well. With respect to surface tension alone it is known that a small e.g. 0.02 mm diameter droplet of water is pulled into a spherical shape by surface tension which is far more important than gravitational forces in this case but that a large e.g. 3 cm diameter mass of water is distorted by gravitational and aerodynamic forces which tend to be stronger than the surface tension forces.

With respect to interfacial forces the designer of a particular ALC has considerable latitude in choosing combinations of well and CL that achieve sufficient stability. The ability to achieve stability increases as the diameter of the well decreases. As stated above the main example collection liquids in which we have chosen to illustrate the ALC are aqueous solutions. Assume for an example an aqueous solution with dissolved salts with concentrations similar to those in sea water. This solution is strongly hydrophilic. Therefore the inside of the well especially that part of the inside of the well that is designed to be in contact with the CL is chosen to be of a hydrophilic type of material which has a relatively low interfacial tension at the liquid well interface. The aqueous solution tends to wet the hydrophilic material. In some of our experiments we have used glass for this material. For the glasses we have used the meniscus bends downward because of gravity when the well faces upward as it does in . The water wets the glass.

Additionally or alternatively the surface immediately outside the well or even just inside the rim of the well can be chosen at least in part because the interfacial tension at an interface between this surface and the CL is relatively high. For example for many embodiments when the CL is an aqueous solution this surface immediately outside the region that is in contact with the CL in the well preferably is hydrophobic. If a JOG impinges on this CL with a velocity sufficient to begin to move the CL out of the well more of the CL will move into contact with a hydrophobic surface and so the total interfacial surface tension increases and so the CL tends not to move out of the well. That is the well is designed so that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to blow the CL out of the well. In a well with a larger diameter the relative importance of these surface and interfacial tension forces which can be designed to increase the stability of the CL in the well is smaller. But in a well with a smaller D the importance of the surface and interfacial tension forces is greater. That is the well is designed so that it takes a relatively large amount of energy to blow the CL out of the well.

To provide a little more detail on the above in some embodiments such as the embodiment of the region around the rim of the well is hydrophobic with respect to the CL. In some of these embodiments this characteristic can be provided by a layer of material and or other form of surface treatment for example. In embodiments where the CL is aqueous and the surface of the CLC at least immediately outside the well and the region around the rim of the well are hydrophobic the well may have a somewhat larger diameter than the nozzle . If the VCL added to the well is sufficient so that the CL is in contact with even a little of the hydrophobic surface then the meniscus of the VCL typically points outward from the well. The velocity profile of the JOG exiting a nozzle is highest near the axis and lowest at the nozzle edge and is typically parabolic. Because of this higher velocity of the JOG near the axis of the well and the nozzle when the JOG blows on the VCL in the well and protruding toward the nozzle this JOG initially tends to flatten the meniscus and can even make a dip in the protruding meniscus. In doing so it can decrease the surface area of the CL protruding toward the nozzle and therefore decrease the total surface tension forces. The interfacial tension forces will increase. Notably in this case the force exerted by the JOG does not strongly tend to push the VCL out of the well unless the well is so full of CL that any pushing down of the protruding meniscus expands the CL into regions completely out of the well.

Stated differently in those embodiments in which the surface on the outside of the well and a portion of the wall in the well is made from a material that has a high interfacial tension with the CL and where the liquid surface extends to near the rim of the well the meniscus bows outward toward the nozzle. The velocity profile of the JOG exiting the nozzle is approximately parabolic with the highest velocity on the axis and so the greatest force of the JOG is near the axis. Therefore the greatest force pushing the surface of the liquid back into the well is on the part of surface that is most bowed out the part nearest the axis. As a result the force exerted by the JOG has less of a tendency to blow the liquid out of the well than if the diameter were larger or if the region near the rim and just outside the well had a lower interfacial tension with the CL.

Note that if the liquid is hydrophobic instead of hydrophilic then the surfaces that are hydrophobic for a hydrophilic CL as discussed above should instead be hydrophilic and the surfaces that should be made hydrophilic for a hydrophilic CL should instead be made hydrophobic.

 d The damping of perturbations or distortions in the CL in a small diameter well should be more rapid than they would be for larger diameter wells. Because the well has such a small diameter the frequency of any resonant wave in on the CL at the liquid gas interface should be high. Higher frequency acoustic waves tend to be damped more rapidly than lower frequency waves.

So we have described several reasons why decreasing the diameter of the well and the diameter of the nozzle can lead to increased stability of the CL in the well.

We now discuss some aspects of designing the system so that the forces of the JOG on the CL in the well largely cancel each other in order to reduce the difference in the force of the JOG on the CL from one side of the well to the other and to a lesser extent from the parts closer to the axis of the well versus the parts farther from the axis.

We note that it is not the total force of the JOG on the CL in the well that causes the CL to be pushed from the well. Rather it is the difference in the forces on the gas liquid surface of the CL between one region on this surface and another. For example in an embodiment in which the nozzle and well are circular and where the axis of the nozzle and the axis of the well are aligned and where the gas exiting the JOG is laminar the forces from the JOG on the CL in the well are axisymmetric at least to first order. In this case the forces exerted by the JOG on the CL in the well tend to cause axisymmetric modifications of the gas liquid surface. Such axisymmetric modifications can lead to the CL becoming unstable. However in our experience these axisymmetric modifications can be relatively large without the CL being pushed from the well when the diameter of the well is small as discussed above . On the other hand if the axis of the nozzle is tilted relative to the axis of the well by even a few e.g. 5 degrees the JOG may cause a non axisymmetric differential force from one side of the well to the other. This difference in force even though very small compared to the total force of the JOG on the CL in the well may then push the CL from the well. For another example if the axis of the nozzle is shifted relative to the axis of the well even by a small distance for example by a distance that is 5 of the diameter of the well the JOG may then cause a strong differential force on the CL from one side of the well to the other. Again this difference in force though small compared to the total force of the JOG on the CL in the well may then push the CL from the well.

Therefore to provide for a method and apparatus to allow a high velocity in the JOG but still not push the CL from the well in the embodiments described here the well and nozzle are designed and aligned so as to make the forces relatively symmetric about the axis of the well so that large impaction forces on the VCL on one side of the axis tend to be canceled by similarly large impaction forces on the opposite side of the well.

In our preferred embodiments both the nozzle and the well have a circular cross section and the axis of the well and the axis of the nozzle are collinear. In this way the nozzle is positioned relative to the well so as to reduce the forces tending to push the CL out of the well even when a high velocity JOG is used to provide impaction forces sufficient to collect the small particles.

Preferably the cross section of the nozzle is not small relative to the cross section of the well because if the nozzle is small and positioned close to the well the forces the JOG may cause large radially varying forces on the CL in the well. Although these axisymmetric forces are not as likely as the non axisymmetric forces to push the CL from the well if they are large enough then they cause enough instability in the CL so that it can be pushed from the well.

For most applications where significant effort is expended to obtain the gas sample that is drawn into the nozzle e.g. in applications where the particles in the gas have already been concentrated in an air to air concentrator then preferably the cross section of the well is approximately equal to the cross section of the JOG. So configured the gas liquid surface is sufficiently large relative to the cross section of the JOG at the position of the gas liquid surface so that the JOG does not tend to cause highly asymmetric forces on the VCL but also so that the JOG is not so large that a large fraction of the particles in the JOG that would impact on a large flat surface do not impact on the CL in the well.

For some other applications for example where no preconcentration of the aerosol particles in the air is used and the electrical power required for the pump is not a problem but the volume of the CL used is to be minimized then the diameter of the JOG may be significantly larger e.g. 60 larger than the well. Then many particles in the JOG have no chance of impacting on the CL in the well but the flow of the JOG near the CL in the well may be more uniform.

In some embodiments the shape and size of the cross section of the nozzle and the cross section of the well are aligned and substantially similar where similar has the meaning it does in geometry same shape but not necessarily the same size . Such is the case in the embodiment of . In these embodiments the average normal to the gas liquid surface is collinear with the axis of the well.

Nozzles used for impaction of particles onto a surface have been studied and used extensively see for example W. C. Hinds p. 121 134. .

Note that the nozzle and the well of the embodiment of are aligned so that they share the same axis. Thus if the nozzle were pushed in along the axis of symmetry in the direction of the well until the nozzle came in contact with the well the cross section of the nozzle would overlap with the cross section of the well.

In other embodiments the cross section of the well and of the nozzle may be different sizes. In this regard a potential advantage of having the cross section of the well slightly larger than that of the nozzle is that the collection efficiency for the particles may be higher. This is especially the case in which the distance between the nozzle and the gas liquid surface of the VCL in the well is relatively large.

Although depicted in the embodiment of and as having an exposed surface of the CL positioned in a substantially horizontal orientation and an axis that is collinear with a vertical line capillary forces are typically strong enough to hold the CL in the small diameter wells so that these wells need not face upward. This is because gravity can be a relatively small or negligible force in these small diameter wells.

In some embodiments various techniques can be used for determining whether an appropriate amount of CL is contained in a well. By way of example electrodes can be positioned near the desired level of the VCL held in the well. A resistance between these electrodes can then be measured so that the height of the VCL in the well can be determined. Pressure adjustments in the collection liquid reservoir then could be used to maintain the height of the CL in the well somewhat constant.

As another example a laser diode can be used to illuminate the VCL. A photodetector then can be located to measure the light scattered by the VCL so that this measurement of the scattered light can be used to determine if the size of the VCL is becoming smaller than desired. If so a collection liquid pump can be directed to pump more collection liquid into the VCL.

In some embodiments an aqueous CL is used. In other embodiments the CL is a nonaqueous solution which may be chosen in part because of its low evaporation rate.

In some embodiments the well and CL in the well are cooled in order decrease the evaporation rate and also to increase the viscosity which can enhance the stability of the CL in the well. For example the vapor pressure of water at 0 C. is 0.61 kPa while at 20 C. it is 2.33 kPa and at 40 C. is 7.38 kPa. The evaporation rate decreases as the vapor pressure decreases. The viscosity of water at 0 C. is 1.79 millipascal seconds while at 20 0 C. is only 1.0 millipascal seconds. In some embodiments in which the CL is cooled the ALC can further include a temperature sensor to monitor the temperature of the CL in the well or at some point near the well.

In some embodiments the ALC includes a means to cool the gas before it exits from the nozzle as a JOG so that the JOG has less of a tendency to warm the CL in the well. Thus the rate of evaporation of CL in the well can be reduced. In some embodiments in which the gas is cooled the ALC further includes a temperature sensor and a humidity sensor to monitor the temperature and humidity of the gas entering the inlet so that the rate of cooling of the gas can be controlled so that no condensation occurs in the inlet or nozzle.

In some embodiments the CL contains solute molecules that reduce the vapor pressure as described by Raoult s Law at the lower concentrations and thereby reduce the evaporation rate. In some of these embodiments the solute molecules also increase the viscosity and thereby increase the stability of the CL.

One or more features or functional aspects can enable an ALC to collect particles with a CL even when the JOG moves at a high rate e.g. 10 m s 20 m s or faster. For example the JOG can be coaxial with the well and so the forces on the CL in the well are symmetric about the axis of the well to a first order. Thus asymmetric forces that can readily push the CL out of the well are reduced.

Additionally or alternatively in those embodiments in which the surface on the inside of the well is made from a material that has a low interfacial tension with the CL and the surface immediately outside the well is made of a material that has a high interfacial tension with the CL e.g. a hydrophobic surface with an aqueous CL the non symmetric perturbations of the type that would allow CL to be pushed from the well result in an increase in total interfacial tension. Therefore such perturbations are not energetically favored.

Additionally or alternatively in embodiments where the CL is cooled the increase in viscosity of the CL contributes to the stability of the CL in the well. Notably the viscosity of water at 0 C. is 1.79 millipascal seconds while at 20 C. is only 1.0 millipascal seconds. One millipascal second is equivalent to one centipoise.

In some embodiments the CL has a viscosity of less than approximately 8 millipascal seconds. For example in some embodiments the viscosity can be less than approximately 2 millipascal seconds.

Additionally or alternatively the relative importance of surface tension increases as the volume of the collection liquid in the well decreases in a manner similar to how surface tension tends to hold a small droplet more nearly spherical than it does a large droplet. In the VCL in the well both the surface tension and interfacial tension can resist the changes in shape that are necessary for the VCL to leave the well.

Referring again to this embodiment of an ALC incorporates a collection liquid reservoir CLR . The CLR stores CL so that an associated well can be fed as needed with CL. The well also connects to a tube that bends to move CL toward an analyzer. That tube need not bend as illustrated and for some applications where there is concern that the particles may settle in the CL and fall to the bottom of a tube that is bent horizontally then the well may be connected to a tube that is straight or tapered and not bent see and the tube is given an orientation with respect to the vertical such that the particles do not fall so fast that they land on the tube.

The collection of particles into the VCL is accomplished as follows with respect to the embodiment of . A collection liquid pump CLP that is connected to the CLR pumps the CL into a collection liquid tube CLT . The CL moves into the well that holds a VCL so that the CL can be exposed to a JOG exiting from the nozzle . Notably the CLP may pump the CL into the CLT either continuously or at selected intervals.

An embodiment such as depicted in can be operated in manner so that a the well is filled with the VCL b this VCL is exposed to the JOG exiting from the nozzle and becomes an EVCL and c the EVCL is drawn out of the well for further analysis. In some embodiments the EVCL is drawn from the well directly into an instrument that analyzes the collected particles for antigens or their content of specific RNA s or other materials. In some embodiments an effluent pump such as depicted in helps control the rate that the CL flows out of the well. In some embodiments this effluent pump is also part of whatever instrument analyzes the EVCL.

In some embodiments the CL contains chemicals used in the broad sense to include inorganic organic biochemical materials that react with selected particles or all of the particles in such a way that the particles can be characterized using optical analysis. For example in one embodiment fluorescent tagged antibodies F Ab bind to specific antigens on particles of interest. The F Ab make the particles of interest fluorescent and the tagged particles are detected optically for example by counting them with a microscope or a flow cytometer see for example Howard Shapiro Practical Flow Cytometry 4ed. Wiley 2003 herein incorporated by reference and C. Sakamoto N Yamaguchi and M Nasu Rapid and Simple Quantification of Bacterial Cells by Using a Microfluidic Device 71 2 1117 2005 herein incorporated by reference .

In some embodiments an array of wells can be included each of which may be in one CLC. In other embodiments an array of CLCs can be included. In some of these embodiments there can be fewer nozzles than there are wells. In some embodiments there is only one nozzle. For the embodiments with fewer nozzles than wells provisions can be provided for moving the wells and the nozzles relative to each other.

In some embodiments there is a means to illuminate and count the particles in the wells. For example if the particles of interest have specific antigens on their surfaces and the CL includes F Ab which specifically bind to these POI then the means to illuminate and count the particles can include a subsystem such as shown in . In particular the subsystem includes a light source to excite the fluorescence of the F Ab and a detector that is sensitive to the fluorescence of the F Ab. A filter can be used to block from the detector any light that is from the light source but not from the F Ab. Lenses such as lenses and also are provided to focus the light from the source. In some embodiments the optics are basically those of a fluorescence microscope or of a fluorescence based flow cytometer.

In embodiments that include F Ab selected to bind to the POI then these F Ab bind to the POI and as these F Ab tagged particles move down through the vertical tube they are counted at some point that is far enough down the tube that the F Ab have had sufficient time to bind to the POI. Notably although the collection of particles that are biological has been emphasized here the application of this invention is not restricted to collection of particles that are biological nor is it restricted to atmospheric particles but it may apply to for example particles in the air in a hospital or in a clean room or in an agricultural facility or in any number of other places where it is important to characterize gas borne particles.

In operation the embodiment of provides CL to a well from a CL reservoir using a pump . The CL then collects particles such as described before. An effluent pump draws the CL from the well and directs the CL toward the analyzer for optical analysis. Once analyzed the CL can be collected in a reservoir .

It should be noted that in some embodiments a valve can be located between the reservoir and the well in order to prevent CL from flowing back into the reservoir. Additionally or alternatively a valve can be located between the well and a downstream analyzer. So located such a valve could prevent ice for example from entering the analyzer. Preferably at least this valve is of such a type that does not tend to collect particles i.e. particles in the CL do not tend to adhere to the valve.

In embodiments that incorporate multiple wells per analyzer subsystem there is also a means to provide the CL with the particles contained therein from each well to the analyzer. For instance in some embodiments the wells can be repositioned relative to the light source and detectors so that the POI can be analyzed in turn. In some embodiments plumbing can be provided so that all of the arrayed components can share the same pump s . In some of these embodiments the pressure difference can be applied sequentially from one ALC to the next with whatever timing is required.

In a first example holes to make wells of various diameters were drilled to a shallow depth e.g. 1 mm into a piece of clear plastic. Water was placed in these wells using a needle and syringe. 1 L min of air was then blown through a 1 mm nozzle that was positioned directly above the hole where the air exiting the nozzle was aimed directly at the hole. Notably the nozzle was not designed for this purpose but was a glass pipette. The tip of the nozzle was not very smooth which was a concern because the flow exiting cannot be as uniform as if it were completely symmetric and for cases that are on a borderline between blowing the liquid out of the hole and having the water stay in the hole lack of symmetry can be relevant.

With 1 L min exiting through the 1 mm diameter nozzle the glass pipette the following aspected were noted. First with about 20 mL of water in a beaker the air blew a hole down into the water that could be over 1 cm deep. Second with a water puddle on a metal surface the air blew a hole through the puddle directly down to the metal surface approximately 2 mm deep . Third with a 1.6 mm diameter well the liquid could be blown out of the hole. This is a case where probably if the nozzle has a more symmetric tip and if there were minimal turbulence in the air in the room and better yet if the nozzle and well were in a container as in the figures and if the nozzle were positioned in an ideal way perfectly vertical and centered and if the material outside the region where the water was to be in contact were hydrophobic then it is very likely that the water could be kept in the hole with 1 L min blowing on the water.

Fourth with holes that had diameters of 1 mm and 2 mm deep 0.66 mm 1.32 mm deep and 0.41 mm 0.81 mm deep then the 1 L min air flow did not blow the liquid out of these holes. Note that for the two smaller diameters mentioned above the nozzle is significantly larger than the well diameter and so the analysis presented above for calculating ddon t apply directly. These holes were drilled with a Vectra milling machine which allows a good approximation of the depth. The nozzle was significantly less than 1 mm away at its closest from the surface of the well. It seems that this particular system could work quite well with the water surface for example 0.3 mm below the surface of the plastic.

It was observed that the 1 L min does not blow the liquid out of the holes that are as large as 1 mm diameter. Additionally even better collection efficiencies for the smallest particles can be obtained with smaller nozzle to surface distances as described above with reference to the article by Grinshpun et al. incorporated by reference. These observations along with the descriptions of collection efficiencies described above and in Hinds incorporated by reference above combine to suggest strongly that it should be possible to obtain reasonably good collection efficiency into a 1 mm diameter water surface for particles throughout the total 1 to 10 um diameter range. In this regard reasonably efficient means 20 or greater. Notably this most likely underestimates the collection efficiency for 1 um diameter particles and grossly underestimates the collection efficiencies for particles 1.5 or 2 um diameter or larger.

Although in the first example of the collection tube with hole into it from the side the tube is 1 mm diameter use for BW aerosol detection could use tubes with smaller diameters. The specific diameters used may depend upon a variety of other design parameters. For building a system for a particular application the diameters and flow rates may be different. For example if an air to air concentrator with a 0.25 L min output is used then a nozzle with approximately half the diameter of 1 mm diameter nozzle could give the same exit velocity. Then either the collection liquid could be kept in the 1 mm diameter hole in which case the collection efficiency may be higher than in the case of the 1 mm diameter nozzle or the diameter of the hole that holds the collection liquid could be smaller and the volume of the collection liquid may be smaller.

In a second example set of experiments plastic disposable micropipette nozzles were used for both the nozzle and the well. The nozzle used for the well was connected to a syringe that was filled with water the CL so that the CL could be replenished if it evaporated or if any bubbles in the liquid were compressed. This also enabled the effects of the JOG on the CL to be studied as the level of the CL in the well varied and as the CL protruded from the well. The perceived advantages of these micropipette nozzles are 1 the plastic comprising these micropipette nozzles is more hydrophobic than either the plastic that we used in the first example which seemed to become less hydrophobic with time or the glass of the glass pipettes that were used in some experiments 2 the walls of these nozzles especially near the tip is are relatively thin and are thin enough that it is relatively easy to see the surface of the liquid and 3 These nozzles can be easily connected to a syringe filled with water so that they can be filled easily and the position of the liquid in the well most easily controlled.

In this second example the nozzle diameter and well diameter is about 0.5 mm. The highest air flows that we impacted on the liquid at the opening of the well were between about 0.4 L min and 0.45 L min. Assuming a nozzle to liquid surface spacing of 0.5 mm which is a good assumption and assuming unit density spheres 1000 kg m then using Hinds Eq. 5.29 the calculated dis 0.68 micrometer. As discussed above with respect to the Sethi and John paper incorporated by reference the collection efficiency into a 0.5 mm well using a 0.5 mm diameter nozzle exit will result in some of the particles that would be collected onto a solid surface not being collected into the well. We do note that the diameter of the CL just outside the well could form a somewhat spherical surface with a diameter a little larger than the well.

In this second example the CL could be pushed from the well with the syringe when the velocity of the JOG was very low so that the CL formed a shape something like a half sphere. Then when the velocity of the JOG was increased it could change the shape of the half sphere meniscus into a flattened half sphere where there appeared to be a dip into this half sphere at some velocities. The hydrophobic surface of the nozzle reduced the tendency for the CL to leave the nozzle.

For typical application to detection of aerosolized BW agents an air to air concentrator is likely to be used. Such concentrators have been used in combination with a variety of aerosol detectors and collectors to concentrate the particles in air before they enter the detector or collector. Examples of commercially available virtual impactor concentrators are the MicroVIC sold by Mesosystems from Albuquerque N. Mex. and the XMX sold by Dycor Technologies Ltd. Edmonton Canada. For some applications it may be useful to employ such an aerosol concentrator in combination with the ALC so that more particles can be collected from gas for a given concentration of particles in the gas.

In some embodiments the ALC includes a system for sorting aerosols such as described in US patent application US 2005 0028577 A1 Feb. 10 2005 by Richard Kounai Chang Jean Pierre Wolf Veronique Boutou and Yong Le Pan Systems and Methods for Sorting Aerosols herein incorporated by reference. In these embodiments this system for sorting aerosols is connected to the gas inlet. For particles about 2 um diameter and larger it is possible to reduce reagent using such a system to select particles that have some characteristic feature of the particles that need to be analyzed e.g. they contain the laser induced fluorescence LIF spectrum similar to tryptophan. A limitation of this approach is that it may have a very low sensitivity if particles that have low mass mean diameter e.g. 1 micrometer . Therefore in some embodiments the ALC includes two ALC. A means to split the incoming flow of gas so that some of the gas is run directly to one ACL is provided and some of the gas is run through a system for sorting aerosols before going to its ACL. By splitting the input air between the two systems higher sensitivity for large mass mean diameter particles but still measuring with a good sensitivity the very small mass mean diameter particles is potentially achieved.

In some embodiments the ALC includes an air to air concentrator for concentrating particles from a larger volume of air into a small volume of air. Such a concentrator could be connected to the gas inlet. The virtual impactor concentrator is one example of an air to air concentrator that is used in some embodiments. The XM 2 as purchased from Dycor is an example of such a virtual impactor concentrator.

The source of vacuum pressure is configured such that when the source of vacuum pressure generates a vacuum a gas is drawn into the container through the gas inlet with as high a velocity as is desired.

A collection liquid container CLC also is provided that includes a well . The well holds a volume of the collection liquid VCL . The well is positioned so that particles entrained in gas entering the container collide with the VCL and may adhere to the VCL.

Notably the well that holds the VCL is positioned sufficiently close to the nozzle so the velocity of the JOG near the gas liquid surface is sufficiently large so that a substantial fraction of the particles within the preselected range of sizes are caused to impact into the VCL at the gas liquid surface. Additionally the well is positioned relative to the nozzle such that the JOG impinges upon the gas liquid surface in such a manner that any forces on the VCL arising from the JOG are relatively symmetric about an average normal to the gas liquid surface. This is done so that the JOG does not tend to push the VCL out of the well.

The embodiment of also includes a CL reservoir from which CL is provided by a pump . An effluent pump is configured to draw the CL from the well and to direct the CL toward an analyzer not shown for analysis. Additionally a temperature sensor is provided that measures a temperature of the gas at the inlet to the container . Additionally for embodiments in which the collection liquid is aqueous a humidity sensor is provided that measures the humidity of the gas at the inlet to the container. Additionally in some embodiments an aerosol particle counter which may be a simple light scattering particle counter similar to those sold by Particle Measurement Systems or an aerodynamic particle sizer as sold by TSI Inc. is connected to the ALC in order to measure the numbers of particles in different sizes in the gas outside the ALC. In this regard the temperature humidity and particle numbers measured by the temperature sensor the humidity sensor and the aerosol particle counter respectively are used at least in part to determine rates and times at which the CL is moved with respect to the well e.g. when more CL is to be added. For example the aerosol concentration in the gas can be used to help estimate when the particle load collected into the well is approaching a level that is likely to be larger than is best for the analytical technique and so the CL should be moved out and replaced.

Additionally a liquid level sensor not shown can be incorporated near the rim of the well. In some embodiments such a sensor can be as simple as two electrodes one on each side of the well and the conductivity between these two electrodes is measured and used to determine if the liquid level has dropped.

Additionally or alternatively a means to reduce or stabilize the temperature of the CL in the well in order to reduce the evaporation of the CL can be provided. In such a case it is useful to have a temperature sensor in the CLC near or even inside the well so that a feedback loop can be used to maintain the temperature of the CL at some desired set point and also to not freeze the CL in the well.

In this regard is a flowchart illustrating functionality such as the functionality exhibited by the embodiment of . As shown in the functionality or method may be construed as beginning at block in which a volume of collection liquid is positioned within a well such that a surface of the collection liquid is exposed. In block surface tension of the collection liquid is used to retain the collection liquid within the well. In block a jet of gas which contains particles is directed toward the volume of collection liquid within the well such that the gas impinges upon the exposed surface of the collection liquid.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

