---

title: System and method for trading and displaying market information in an electronic trading environment
abstract: A system and method for trading and displaying market information along a static axis are described to ensure fast and accurate execution of trades. The static axis, whether is a straight axis or a curved one, can be oriented in any direction. Regardless of how the axis is oriented, a first region may display price levels that are arranged along the static axis. A second region, which overlaps the first region, may display one or more indicators for highlighting one of the price levels associated with the lowest offer and one of the price levels associated with the highest bid. Moreover, a third region, which overlaps the first region, may be included for initiating placement of an order to buy or an order to sell the tradeable object through an action of a user input device. Other overlapping regions may also be displayed so that additional market information may be viewed by a trader.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442890&OS=08442890&RS=08442890
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 08442890
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060503
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 filed Feb. 28 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 289 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 filed Jun. 9 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 186 322 filed Mar. 2 2000. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 589 751 filed Jun. 9 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 938 011 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 186 322. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 filed Oct. 5 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 127 424 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 238 001 filed Oct. 6 2000. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 376 417 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 filed Apr. 19 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 389 268 which in turn is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 590 692 09 589 751 and 09 971 087. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 also claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 60 325 553 filed Oct. 1 2001. The entire content of each of the above referenced applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. Specifically the present invention is directed to tools for trading tradeable objects that can be traded with quantities and or prices.

Trading methods have evolved from a manually intensive process to a technology enabled electronic platform. With the advent of electronic trading a user or trader can be in virtually direct contact with the market from practically anywhere in the world performing near real time transactions and without the need to make personal contact with a broker.

Electronic trading is generally based on a host exchange one or more computer networks and client devices. In general the host exchange includes one or more centralized computers to form the electronic heart. Its operations typically include order matching maintaining order books and positions price information and managing and updating a database that records such information. The host exchange is also equipped with an external interface that maintains uninterrupted contact to the client devices and possibly other trading related systems.

Using client devices market participants or traders link to the host exchange through one or more networks. A network is a group of two or more computers or devices linked together. There are many types of wired and wireless networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Networks can also be characterized by topology protocol and architecture. For example some market participants may link to the host through a direct connection such as a T1 or ISDN. Some participants may link to the host exchange through direct connections and through other common network components such as high speed servers routers and gateways. The Internet a well known collection of networks and gateways can be used to establish a connection between the client device and the host exchange. There are many different types of networks and combinations of network types known in the art that can link traders to the host exchange.

Regardless of the way in which a connection is established software running on the client devices allows market participants to log onto one or more exchanges and participate in at least one market. A client device is a computer such as a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth that has network access. In general client devices run software that creates specialized interactive trading screens. Trading screens enable market participants to obtain market quotes monitor positions and submit orders to the host.

Generally when an order is submitted to a host exchange the host checks the conditions associated with the order for example price and quantity and prioritizes the order with other orders of the same price. When the order conditions are satisfied in the market a trade occurs and trade information is then relayed in some fashion to one or more client devices. In fact the host exchanges typically publish a data feed to the client devices so that the traders can have access to the most current market information.

Market information commonly includes information regarding the inside market and market depth. The inside market is the lowest sell price in the market and the highest buy price in the market at a particular point in time. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and may also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words a host exchange usually provides the total buy or the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the host exchange. For instance some host exchanges provide market depth for all price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally host exchanges can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data including market information provided by an exchange and react accordingly more quickly than other competing market participants. It is therefore desirable to offer tools that can assist a market participant in adapting his or her strategy to an electronic marketplace and help the participant to make desirable trades.

As described with reference to the accompanying Figures the preferred embodiments provide a display and or trading method to ensure fast and accurate order entry by displaying market information along a static axis. The static axis and order entry concepts have been described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 590 692 filed on Jun. 9 2000 and entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The preferred embodiments are intended to build on the static axis and order entry concepts described in this and other incorporated applications.

According to the preferred system the display can be custom configured with the options to display working orders inside market information fills and market depth information from a single window. Regions in the display of the preferred system such as a working order region a bid and ask quantity regions and price display region can be rearranged on the screen or removed entirely to suit a trader s particular preferences. Indicators can be used to highlight market changes or opportunities in the market. Additionally the preferred system has a configurable order entry system that gives the user options in performing transactions with an exchange. This increased flexibility in screen layout and order entry nonetheless maintains the display of market information in an intuitive manner so that it allows for immediate reaction to the market s changes.

The preferred embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.

Host exchange may represent for example the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT the New York Stock Exchange NYSE the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME the Xetra a German stock exchange the European derivatives market Eurex or any other exchange that participates in electronic trading. Host exchange might also refer to other facilities which include basic to more complex systems that automatically match incoming orders. These example host exchanges and other host exchanges are well known in the art. Communication protocols required for connectivity to one of these host exchanges are also well known in the art.

As described in the background a host exchange can implement numerous types of order execution algorithms. Preferably the preferred embodiments can be adapted by one skilled in the art to work with any particular order execution algorithm. Some example order execution algorithms include first in first out and pro rata algorithms. The first in first out FIFO algorithm used for some markets listed with Eurex for example gives priority to the first person to place an order. The pro rata algorithm used for some markets listed with LIFFE for example splits all orders for the same price. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of order execution algorithm.

Regardless of the type of order execution algorithm used each host exchange preferably provides similar types of information referred to as market information in to subscribing client device s . Market information may include data that represents just the inside market and may also include market depth. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words a host exchange usually provides the total buy or the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. Market information can contain other types of useful market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information. The contents of market information is generally left up to the host exchange . Often however the host exchange limits the amount of information it sends to client device to save on network bandwidth.

As previously described the preferred embodiments may be used to trade any tradeable object. As used herein that the term tradeable objects refers simply to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of tradeable objects such as financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object such as a class of tradeable objects.

In the preferred embodiments client device is a computer that provides an interface for a trader or market participant to trade at one or more markets listed with host exchange . An example client device is a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth. Client device according to the preferred embodiment includes at least a processor and memory. The processor and memory which are both well known computer components are not shown in the Figure for sake of clarity. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process the various types of market information. Of course the more market information which is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the preferred embodiments.

Memory may include computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory or RAM random access memory . Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In the preferred embodiments client device receives market information from host exchange . The market information is received over network s . Network s may include a group of computers and or associated devices that are connected by communications facilities. Network s can involve permanent connections such as cables or temporary connections made through telephone or other communication links. Network s can be as small as a LAN local area network consisting of a few computers printers and or other devices or it can consist of many small and large computers distributed over a vast geographic area WAN or wide area network or it can consist of both types of networks both LAN and WAN . For instance the Internet a well known collection of networks and gateways can be used to establish a connection between the client device and the host exchange . In another example wireless networks that send and receive data via radio infrared optical signaling or some other technology that does not require a physical connection can be used. There are many different types of networks and combinations of network types known in the art that can link client device to the host exchange and the present invention is not limited to any particular network architecture.

According to the preferred embodiments market information is displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device of the client device . The output device can be any type of display. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of display.

Upon viewing market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders in a market change orders in a market query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client device for example by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device e.g. such as those input devices described with respect to . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals the client device preferably generates transaction information . For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a tradeable object. Then transaction information would include an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which can be considered various types of transaction information . Once generated transaction information would be sent from client device to host exchange over network s .

As previously described provides an example system overview according to the preferred embodiments. Various changes and or modifications may be made to the system and still fall within the scope of the present invention. For example it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to any particular network architecture or configuration such as described with respect to . The present invention may be applied with utility on any electronic device in any network that can be used for electronic trading.

Displaying market information in relation to a static axis allows for exceptional market feel and an intuitive sense of where the market is headed. It is also important and beneficial to provide a reflex fast order entry system. Therefore the configurable display of one preferred embodiment enables a trader to send orders by simply clicking in buy and or sell order entry regions of the display. In another embodiment buttons on an input device are programmed so that when a particular button is pressed it sends a buy order to the matching engine and that when another button when pressed it sends a sell order to the matching engine. There are numerous input devices that can be used to initiate an order examples of which are described below with respect to . Initiating an order includes sending an order to a host exchange e.g. see host exchange in or equivalently leaving the hands of the trader. For instance the client device a network device or the host exchange may be programmed to verify certain parameters of the order and later reject it based on the parameters and some other criteria. Then although the trader initiated the order the software might still reject it and not send it to the host exchange. Software of this kind might be put into place as a risk management tool for example.

To enable a trader to quickly send an order to host exchange one or more parameters of an order are preferably based on at least one preset parameter and the location of a cursor on the display. According to one preferred embodiment an order s quantity is based on a preset quantity while the order s price is based on the location of the cursor on the display. Of course the preset parameter can be based on something other than quantity such as last traded quantity LTQ last traded price LTP a theoretical value price and so on. Additionally the preset parameter may be linked to and or based on a dynamic value or an equation. Similarly the location of the cursor on the display could refer to a different value besides price such as yield. A cursor can be an indicator such as a blinking or non blinking underline or rectangle that marks or highlights a particular place on the screen. In applications that use a mouse a cursor can be an arrow or other on screen icon that moves according to the movements of the mouse. In reference to digitizing tablets or touch screen applications the location of the cursor is the location where the stylus or light pen touches the screen. Each of these input devices and more are described below with respect to . Alternatively it should also be understood that all parameters of an order may be entirely based on the location in one or more dimensions of a cursor. For instance the location of the cursor along an x axis might represent the order quantity and the location of the cursor along the y axis might represent the order price.

In an embodiment the display has one or more regions. Then the regions can be set up so that one region is an order entry region for buy orders and another region is an order entry region for sell orders. A buy order entry region can be an area dedicated for order entry or alternatively the buy order entry region can overlap other regions such as the bid quantity display region. The same is true for a sell order entry region. Then when an input device used to control the cursor is positioned over one of the order entry regions and a button is pressed an order to buy if the cursor is positioned over the buy order entry region or an order to sell if the cursor is positioned over the sell order entry region would be sent to the host exchange . It should also be understood that the preferred embodiments may have multiple buy regions and or multiple sell regions. Then for example each of the multiple buy regions and each of the multiple sell regions could represent a different order type. Example order types known to one skilled in the art of trading include basket iceberg block orders limit limit on close limit on open market market on close market on open odd lot one cancels all relative stop stop limit sweep to fill and volume weighted average price.

In another embodiment buttons or keyboard keys can be programmed that when pressed or selected a buy order and or a sell order is automatically sent to the host exchange . For example a mouse might have a least two buttons a right button and a left button. The right button could be programmed to send an order to sell while the left button could be programmed to send an order to buy or vice versa. Other programmable configurations are possible depending on the type of input device. With respect to keyboard keys it is possible to map trading functionality to particular keys on a keyboard. For instance the A key might represent entering a buy order at a specified price quantity the key might represent entering a sell order at a specified price quantity the S key might represent delete working bid s the L key might represent delete working sell s and so on. Other trading functionality might include deleting all bids offers sweep the bids offers trade out increase decrease buy side cursor increase decrease in price center buy side cursor increase decrease sell side cursor increase decrease in price center sell side cursor load net position in order quantity entry field center the market and so on.

Turning now to examples of various input devices are shown. Of course other types of input devices known in the art which are not shown in the Figures such as a keyboard can be used. Preferably each input device can be setup to send orders or perform other types of trading functionality. Such input signals from the input device preferably forms the basis of transaction information which would be sent to host exchange . Additionally such input signals from the input device may also be used to configure the display or viewing portion of the display. For example although it is described in more detail below an input device signal could re center or re position a portion of the display that shows market information associated with the inside market.

Other input devices that are similar in nature to the game pad device may also be used. For instance an airplane control yoke could be used to input various types of information into the system. Additionally foot pedals could be used to send signals to the system.

Again it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to any particular type of input device or the devices illustrated in . Any type of input device may be configured to work with the present invention. Preferably the input device is configured however in a manner so that the trader can quickly and efficiently submit transaction information to the host exchange .

Some input devices were described above to illustrate the concept of entering orders into the preferred system. Many of the input devices were described with respect to entering a single order into the market. In the preferred embodiment however an input device can be used to enter more than one order at a time if so desired. Following are some examples to illustrate this feature 

Consider that a trader has entered a pre set order quantity of 20. Then assume that the trader clicked down e.g. press down on a mouse button without releasing in a sell region at 110.77 and dragged down to 110.68 before releasing. The system may be programmed to highlight the price levels which were selected. Then in this example price levels 110.77 110.76 110.75 110.74 110.73 110.72 110.71 110.70 110.69 and 110.68 would be highlighted. Once the mouse button is released at 110.68 for example orders corresponding to the selected price levels would be sent to the exchange. The trader s orders would be as follows 1 sell 2 at 110.77 2 sell 2 at 110.76 3 sell 2 at 110.75 4 sell 2 at 110.74 5 sell 2 at 110.73 6 sell 2 at 110.72 7 sell 2 at 110.71 8 sell 2 at 110.70 9 sell 2 at 110.69 and 10 sell 2 at 110.68. In this example the system was programmed to divide the pre set quantity by the number of price levels that the trader dragged through e.g. pre set quantity of 20 divided by 10 price levels orders of size 2 .

Instead of dividing the pre set quantity by the number of orders such as illustrated in example 1 the system may be programmed to enter orders for the pre set quantity of 20 at each of the 10 price levels. Then assuming that the trader clicked down in a sell region at 110.77 and dragged down to 110.68 before releasing the trader s orders would be as follows 1 sell 20 at 110.77 2 sell 20 at 110.76 3 sell 20 at 110.75 4 sell 20 at 110.74 5 sell 20 at 110.73 6 sell 20 at 110.72 7 sell 20 at 110.71 8 sell 20 at 110.70 9 sell 20 at 110.69 and 10 sell 20 at 110.68.

Note that Example 1 and Example 2 show sending orders which have equal quantities among them e.g. each order in example 1 had a quantity of 2 and each order in example 2 had a quantity of 20 . However it is also envisioned that the quantity for one or more orders may be different from the other orders. For example the quantity could be based on an equation that depends on how far the price level of the future order is away from the inside market. To illustrate this example consider an example equation quantity pre set quantity number of ticks from the inside market 1 . Then assume that the inside market was 110.68 and the pre set quantity was 20. Assuming also that the trader clicked down in a sell region at 110.77 and dragged down to 110.68 before releasing the trader s orders would be as follows 1 sell 2 at 110.77 2 sell 2 at 110.76 3 sell 3 at 110.75 4 sell 3 at 110.74 5 sell 3 at 110.73 6 sell 4 at 110.72 7 sell 5 at 110.71 8 sell 7 at 110.70 9 sell 10 at 110.69 and 10 sell 20 at 110.68.

The trader may enter one or more parameters to set the quantity for each order. Consider that a trader has a pre set quantity of 100. However also consider that the trader specified that any one order should be no greater than a 5 lot order. Then assume that the trader clicked down in a sell region at 110.77 and dragged down to 110.68 before releasing. The trader s orders would be as follows 1 sell 5 at 110.77 2 sell 5 at 110.76 3 sell 5 at 110.75 4 sell 5 at 110.74 5 sell 5 at 110.73 6 sell 5 at 110.72 7 sell 5 at 110.71 8 sell 5 at 110.70 9 sell 5 at 110.69 and 10 sell 5 at 110.68. In this example the system submitted 10 5 lot orders e.g. for a total quantity of 50 to the exchange even though the pre set quantity was set to 100.

A trader may specify a limit parameter to limit the number of orders which could be selected and sent to the market. Consider when a trader has limited the number of orders which could be dragged into the market to 5 orders. Then assume that the trader clicked down in a sell region at 110.77 and dragged down to 110.68 before releasing. According to one example the trader s orders might be limited to the following 5 orders 1 sell 5 at 110.77 2 sell 5 at 110.76 3 sell 5 at 110.75 4 sell 5 at 110.74 and 5 sell 5 at 110.73. Alternatively the trader s orders might be limited to the following 5 orders 1 sell 5 at 110.72 2 sell 5 at 110.71 3 sell 5 at 110.70 4 sell 5 at 110.69 and 5 sell 5 at 110.68. Other combinations may alternatively be selected in response to this action.

A trader may specify a number of orders that would be automatically sent into the market when only a single order is entered by the trader or when only a single action is taken by the trader. For instance assume that a trader set this multiple order parameter to 5 and that this feature was turned on. Then assume that the trader entered an order to sell 10 at 110.77. The system may automatically enter 4 more orders such as two orders above the original order price e.g. the original order price in this example was 110.77 and two orders below the original order price to give the following 4 additional orders 1 sell 10 at 110.79 2 sell 10 at 110.78 3 sell 10 at 110.76 and 4 sell 10 at 110.75. Alternatively the preferred system may be programmed to automatically enter 4 orders at other price levels e.g. at each of the 4 price levels below the original order price or at each of the 4 price levels above the original order price .

In Example 5 the automatically entered orders were entered at price levels based on the original order price. Alternatively the trader can preload the orders for which he or she would like to be automatically entered. In other words a trader can determine the price levels at which orders should be automatically entered when a designated action takes place. For instance the system may be programmed to send orders at price levels which are a designated number of ticks away from the inside market. Or the system may be programmed to send orders within boundaries at price levels where an opportunity exists such as a price level with little or no quantity available this is illustrated more in Example 6 below . Additionally the action taken by the trader in Example 5 involved manually sending in a single order but alternatively the action or trigger for automatic order entry may be any icon and or button and or trigger or groups of buttons triggers that when pressed and or selected causes the system to automatically enter the group of orders. For instance one or more buttons on a game pad could be programmed that when pressed causes the system to automatically enter orders at predetermined price levels.

A trader may click down in a sell region at 110.77 and drag down to 110.68 before releasing but the system would only send orders at price levels within the region e.g. 110.77 through 110.68 that have opportunities associated with them. For instance consider when no or very little quantity was at 116.69 and there was a very large quantity available at 110.68. Then according to this example an order would be sent at 110.69 thus filling that opportunity or gap but an order would not be sent at 110.68 because an opportunity did not exist based on the current order queue. Additionally the system preferably examines all of the other price levels within that region looking for opportunities to fill with orders. Preferably the trader can set parameters such as maximum quantity levels or maximum order numbers defining when an opportunity exists.

A trader may click down in a sell region at 110.77 and drag down to 110.68 before releasing yet assume that the lowest sell price at that time was 110.70 and there are offers to buy at 110.69 and 110.68. Then in this example if sell orders were placed at 110.69 and 110.68 they would have crossed the market assuming sufficient buy quantity is represented . However according to this example the system preferably refrains from sending those two orders to market and only sends sell orders when they are at or above the inside market. Preferably it saves those two orders for when the market is equal to or greater than the order price. Then when the market is equal to the order price the order may be sent. For instance if the lowest sell price moves to 110.69 then an order to sell would be sent at 110.69. Moreover if the lowest sell price moves down to 110.68 then an order to sell would be sent at 110.68.

A trader may program the system to send orders at designated times. For instance a trader may select or preload orders at various price levels and assign each future order a time at which it will be sent to the exchange. To illustrate consider when a trader wishes to place three orders in the market. Then he or she might program the system in response to a trigger or action to automatically enter the first order at 1 tick away from the inside market at the present time enter the second order at 2 ticks away from the inside market in 1000 milliseconds and enter the third order at 3 ticks away from the inside market in 2500 milliseconds. The trader could use this feature to send multiple orders to an exchange over the course of seconds minutes hours days or even months.

Additionally the group of orders which have been dragged in may be treated as a group of orders for purposes of moving them canceling them changing certain order parameters and so on. For example if a trader wished to delete the group he or she could simply select on the of the orders and delete the entire order group. Or if the trader wished to change the quantity size he or she could simply change the order size of one of the orders and it would correspondingly change the order size for each of the other orders in the group. Preferably the trader could select if he or she wanted to treat the orders as a group or as independent orders. One way to do this is by highlighting those orders which the trader wants as a group and selecting a hotkey to group the orders e.g. on a keyboard the Ctrl key and the letter g key . It might also be desirable to have the ability to change or modify order groups.

As described above the present invention provides a display and trading method to ensure fast and accurate execution of trades by displaying market information along a static axis. The static axis is described in U.S. patent application entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth the contents of which have been incorporated above by reference. Accordingly the values in the price column are static. That is they do not normally change positions unless a re centering re positioning or other user initiated command such as clicking on a scroll button is received. The re centering re positioning command is described more below.

The quantity values displayed in the bid and ask regions are dynamic. For example they move up and down along the static axis to reflect the inside market and or market depth for the given tradeable object. So for example when the inside market moves up in price quantities populate the appropriate price levels which using the preferred display shows that the inside market has just moved up. The same is true for when the inside market moves down in price such that quantities populate the appropriate price levels which shows that the inside market has just moved down. Additionally quantity values displayed in the bid and ask regions are dynamic in the sense that the actual quantity itself may go up or down in magnitude at a particular price level. For example assume that the best bid price was 60 which had a quantity of 375. Then assume that the quantity was reduced to 325. Accordingly the quantity displayed would reflect the new quantity value of 325 but the price of 60 would remain static.

Using the static axis preferred embodiments of the display are described with respect to example screen shots shown in . According to the preferred embodiments shown in the Figures as market information changes one or more indicators move accordingly along a static axis. Additionally as shown in the Figures as market information changes one or more indicators move up or down in magnitude to reflect quantity changes in the market. In some Figures the static axis is represented by a straight line while in other Figures the static axis is represented by a curved line. Regardless of whether the static axis is straight or curved horizontal or vertical or oriented any other angle the display and trading methods of the preferred embodiments preferably allow the trader to better visualize movement in the market more quickly.

A general overview of a preferred display is shown with respect to screen in . Many variations of screen are shown in the following Figures. Preferably a screen can be configured to display more market information or less market information preferably depending on how the trader configures the screen. This allows greater flexibility for a trader to tailor the screen and the contents displayed to his or her liking. In any event screen in provides an example display which provides a large amount of information preferably given in one display window. The grid format dynamically displays market information for a given tradeable object and preferably enables the trader to enter orders quickly by simply clicking in specific cells of the grid. More detail on the grid format is described below with respect to .

For purposes of illustration screen has been broken up into regions and . Starting first with region . Region displays the current time . A field at is provided that indicates how far up down the market is for the day an example 3 is shown indicating the market is up 3 price levels . A drop down menu at provides a list of accounts or customers from a drop down customer menu an example Account is shown indicating the customer or account that these trades relate to . A field at is provided that indicates the total number of trades the trader has made so far e.g. these trades correspond to the example account Account set forth in field . A field at displays the trader s net position. A field at displays a preset order quantity. Preset order quantity buttons at referring to 1 5 10 20 50 100 can be used to define the preset order quantity displayed at . A clear CLR icon is provided to clear the order quantity field at . A default quantity field at is provided to input a value which automatically populates the order quantity field at . A stop limit order flag at is provided to submit the next order as a stop limit order. A stop market order flag at is provided to submit the next order as a stop market order. An IOC icon at is provided to submit an order as immediate or cancel. A delete all icon at is provided to delete all working orders. A delete offers icon at is provided to delete all of the trader s offers from the market. A delete bids icon at is provided to delete all of the trader s bids from the market. A price consolidation slider at is provided to consolidate price levels and associated market depth. Price consolidation is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading with Intuitive Grid of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed Oct. 5 2001 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Price consolidation for one or more of the display regions is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 304 248 entitled Method and Interface for Consolidating Price Levels on a Trading Screen filed Nov. 26 2002 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. A field at is provided to provide the profit and loss number P L which can preferably be programmed to display the profit and loss number for a particular account for a trader or for group of traders.

Working quantity region at displays working quantities W and partial executions on that particular bid B or offer S . Alternatively separate bid working order columns and ask working order columns could be used. Preferably when an order is completely filled or deleted the values in this region are cleared. Additionally in the preferred embodiment working orders may be moved from one price level to another simply by selecting the working order of interest and dragging it to another location at a different price level. Moving working orders from one price level to another is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 entitled Trading Tools for Electronic Trading filed Apr. 19 2002 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The system then automatically deletes the previous working order by sending a delete transaction message to the exchange and enters a new order for the same quantity at the new price level. Preferably when an order is changed the values in the working quantity region are updated to reflect the changes. The system preferably notifies the exchange of the change.

Bid display region displays current market bid quantities including those of the trader using the interface if any. Preferably the bid display region can display direct market bids in addition to implied market bids. In the illustrated embodiment the current market bids are aggregate buy quantities that are displayed in association with corresponding price levels. Although numbers are used as current market bid indicators other types of indicators may be used. For instance color or color gradients may be used to graphically indicated the number of market bids. In another example bars may be used such that the length of the bars indicates the number of market bids. The indicators in the bid display region may in addition be color coded segmented or otherwise differentiated to represent a corresponding number of orders and or the trader s orders in relation to other orders in the market.

Ask display region displays current market offer quantities. Preferably the ask display region can display direct market offers in addition to implied market offers. In the illustrated embodiment the current market offers are aggregate sell quantities that are displayed in association with corresponding price levels. Similar to the display of market bids other types of indicators may be used to indicate the number of market bids and or orders.

Price display region indicates market prices or price levels. Preferably arrows appear at the top and bottom of this region and when pressed or otherwise activated the price display region scrolls so that beyond the currently viewable area on the screen can be seen. Other methods may be used to view price levels beyond what is currently viewed such as spinning a wheel on a mouse input device or depressing programmed hot keys for example. According to one preferred embodiment line indicators indicate the highest price and the lowest price for which a trade occurred over a time period. e.g. for the last hour of trading over the course of the day over the course of the last month etc. . Using indicators for high prices and low prices is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 260 643 entitled System and Method for Displaying Highest and Lowest Traded Prices of Tradeable Objects filed Sep. 30 2002 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A last traded quantity region indicates the last traded quantity LTQ in association with its corresponding price level. The last trade quantity region may also be used to display other useful items of interest. For example preferably region can be configured to display volume by price in bar text or some other format e.g. see volume bars which indicate the volume traded at various price levels over set time period . Color for example may be used to differentiate times within the set period of time. Of course the LTQ may alternatively be illustrated numerically and if desired only the most recent LTQ may be displayed instead of a series of LTQs over a set period of time.

According to one preferred embodiment each region is divided into cells. For example the working order region has cell 1 bid quantity display region has cell 2 ask quantity region has cell 3 and price display region has a price level of 150. Briefly cell 1 displays working orders cell 2 displays bid quantity and cell 3 displays ask quantity although this apparent from the Figure. Each region has a cell or location that corresponds to a particular price level. For example cell 1 cell 2 and cell 3 each correspond to price level 150. Similarly each region has a cell or location that corresponds to at least price levels 132 to 150. In this example the price levels are set to 1 tick apart where a tick is the smallest unit of value for a particular exchange and its tradeable object. In this example 1 tick represents 1 unit of value. Ticks can be whole numbers e.g. 1 2 3 . . . or decimal numbers e.g. 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.5 . . . depending on the exchange and the tradeable object.

According to example trading screen each cell is visually distinguished from each other by a grid of lines or borders. However the grid is not necessary to distinguish each cell. An example of a display without the grid is shown in . Referring back to screen in the grid is formed from horizontal and vertical lines making up rows and columns. Each column represents a region and each cell in a column is associated with a particular price level previously described directly above. Of course the grid can be angled or placed horizontally. In a horizontal example each row could represent a region including the price display region and each cell in a column might correspond to a particular price level in the price display region.

Preferably order entry is integrated in some fashion into the grid. According to one embodiment the screen has a buy order entry region and a sell order entry region . In this example the buy order entry region overlaps with the bid display region and the sell order entry region overlaps with the ask display region . So by positioning a curser over a cell in the bid display region and pressing the proper button an order to buy the tradeable object for the price associated with the cell is automatically sent to the host exchange . By positioning a curser over a cell in the ask display region and pressing the proper button an order to sell the tradeable object for the price associated with the cell is automatically sent to the host exchange . In both examples each order would preferably include a preset buy and or sell quantity. The system may be programmed to send the order when a button is depressed e.g. mouse button pressed down keypad touch screen etc. or alternatively the system may send the order when the button is depressed and released e.g. mouse button pressed down and then released key pressed down and then released touch screen touched etc. .

According to another embodiment the buy and sell order entry regions overlap the bid and ask display regions and price region . So by positioning a curser over a cell in any of the bid ask or price display regions and pressing the proper button e.g. a left mouse button or any other input device etc. an order to buy the tradeable object for the price associated with the cell is automatically sent to the host exchange . By positioning a curser over a cell in any one of the bid ask or price display regions and pressing the proper button e.g. a right mouse button or any other input device etc. an order to sell the tradeable object for the price associated with the cell is automatically sent to the host exchange . In both examples each order would preferably have a pre set quantity associated with buy and or sell. This is one type of example illustrating how order entry regions might overlap display regions. It should be understood that the buy and sell order entry regions can overlap any region of the display.

Alternatively by positioning a cursor over a cell that is associated with a price level which is less than the best bid and pressing a button or icon an order to buy the tradeable object may be automatically sent to the host exchange . Similarly by positioning a cursor over a cell that is associated with a price level which is greater than the best offer and pressing a button or icon an order to sell the tradeable object may be automatically sent to the host exchange . In these instances the order is a buy order or a sell order depending on where the cursor is positioned and not dependent on which button is pressed or selected. Other reference points besides the inside market prices may be used to determine if the order is a buy order or a sell order such as the last traded price or a theoretical price for example.

According to yet another embodiment orders may be entered through a buy and or sell order window not shown . That is a trader can open a buy and or sell window and manually fill in the order parameters such as price and quantity. When the trader is comfortable with the order parameters as displayed in the window he or she may then submit an order having those parameters to the electronic exchange upon selecting a button. It may also be advantageous to automatically populate the buy and or sell order window with order parameter information. This can occur by positioning the cursor over a cell associated with a particular price level and pressing a button. Then the order window will have the corresponding price automatically populated into it. Regardless of how the order parameter information is filled in e.g. manual or automatic this alternative embodiment requires the extra step of confirming the order parameters before the order is actually submitted. Therefore this alternate embodiment may not be as desirable for traders requiring faster order entry systems.

As described above market information might include data that represents just the inside market where the inside market is the lowest sell price best offer and the highest buy price best bid for orders in the market. Example market information is displayed in for illustrating the preferred embodiment. Referring to screen in the inside market is where is the highest bid price and is the lowest ask price. Indicators can be used to graphically indicate the inside market prices to the trader. More on indicators is described below.

Also recall that market information might include market depth where market depth refers to quantity available at the inside market and can also refer to quantity available at other prices away from the inside market. The amount of market depth information that is available usually depends on the host exchange. That is one host exchange might provide five levels of market depth e.g. provide quantity information for 5 price levels on the buy side and for 5 price levels on the sell side whereas another host exchange might provide no levels of market depth e.g. provide no quantity or yet another host exchange might provide unlimited levels of depth. Preferably the client displays the available levels of market depth assuming that the trader wants to see all of the levels of market depth.

In the example embodiment illustrated in market depth is shown in the bid and ask display regions respectively. For example there is an aggregate ask quantity of 75 offered at a price of 141 and there is an aggregate bid quantity of 20 at a price of 140. Quantity available at other prices away from the inside market includes ask quantities of 100 35 15 and 10 and includes bid quantities of 125 75 20 and 10. 

In addition market information can contain other types of market data such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and or order fill information. LTP and LTQ can be indicated in a separate region not shown in e.g. in an LTQ column associated with the price region or they can be indicated within one of the regions in .

According to a preferred embodiment as market information is received at the client device it is arranged and displayed with reference to a static axis such as shown in the price region of . For instance the system s software determines that the inside market is near 140 and 141. Therefore a static price scale is generated having situated along it the inside market prices and prices above below the inside market based on a pre set tick or user configured tick size. If quantity is provided in the feed then it can also be displayed in the appropriate cells that correspond to the correct price levels. For example an ask quantity of 75 is placed in a cell in the ask quantity display region which corresponds to the price level of 141. Preferably this process updates the display as new market information is received at the client device .

As the market information is received and the display is updated the price levels preferably remain fixed in their cells within the price region . That is the price levels are displayed statically with respect to the cell or box it is placed in. This is useful as new quantities levels are received via an update they can be mapped to static price levels corresponding along the static axis which gives the trader a stationary frame of reference to the changing market data. This allows movements in the market to visually stand out to the trader.

As shown in working orders to sell 10 and 15 have been placed at price levels of 147 and 143 respectively. Working orders to buy 10 have been placed at price levels 132 and 139. The quantities shown in the bid and ask display regions preferably reflect the quantity from these working orders. That is if the working order to buy 10 at price level 132 was deleted no quantity would be shown in the bid display region . Alternatively it is envisioned that the trader could choose to have his or her working orders removed from the bid and ask display regions . Then the trader would view only those quantities due to other traders. The working orders remain fixed in relation to their price levels until the order is filled the order is moved to a different price level or the order is deleted.

Additionally it is envisioned that the traders working in a group can view each other s working orders and also have those working orders removed from the bid and ask display regions . If desired orders due to individual traders could be identified by colors or some other indicator to separate the individual trader s working orders from the group s working orders.

Sometimes it is useful to re arrange one or more of the regions shown in or to better suit the trader s preferences. Thus in a preferred embodiment referring to the screen in the trader is allowed to rearrange the regions of the display. One example of this rearrangement is shown in which shows a screen that is similar to the example screen of except that in the price display region is located between the bid display region and ask display region . Notice that the placement of the price display region does not necessarily effect how the market information is displayed. Other regions can also be moved or rearranged on the display preferably to suit the user s preferences. According to a preferred embodiment any region can be moved by selecting the region with an input device and dragging it to another desired location.

Sometimes it is useful to see price levels that are currently out of view. For example the market may move out of view or a trader wants to place an order a price level not currently shown in the display. Thus in the preferred embodiment the display allows the trader to scroll up and down the static axis to view other price levels and market information. Indicators such as arrow icons are displayed to indicate to the trader that he or she can scroll along the static axis. The trader can simply select or press the arrow icons with an input device to move up or down or along the static axis . A scroll bar may also be used in place of or in addition to the arrow icons. Additionally a button on an input device can be rotated back and forth to scroll along the axis. For instance some mouse devices have a wheel that can be spun in two directions. If the wheel is spun in one direction the trader could scroll in one direction along the static axis. If the wheel is spun in the other direction the trader could scroll in the opposite direction along the static axis.

When the market ascends or descends the price column or the static axis the inside market might go above or below the price levels of the price display region that are currently displayed on a trader s screen. One could manually adjust which portion of the price display region is displayed such as described above or one could use the re centering or re positioning feature. That is the system will re center or re position the inside market on the trader s screen. There are many ways to give a re centering re positioning command. For instance a button or hotkey may be programmed so that when it is pressed the system automatically re centers or re positions the inside market on the screen. Alternatively when the inside market is near one of the edges of the screen the system may automatically re center or re position the display. The system may be programmed to re center or re position around something other than the inside market. For example the system may be programmed to re center or re position around a theoretical price value which is fed into the system from a third party software application.

Sometimes it might not be necessary to display certain types of information. For example some traders are interested in trading based on relative movement of the quantities without necessarily needing to know the actual prices. Then it might not be necessary to display actual price levels given that bid and ask quantities move along a static axis. Accordingly illustrates the option of removing the actual display of prices along the static axis. However this does not mean that the static axis is removed but merely that the price levels situated along the along the axis are not displayed.

Sometimes it is useful to display only portions of the market information which are relevant to the trader. For example some traders are interested in viewing market depth at all price levels whereas some traders are interested in viewing only the market depth at the inside market. Some traders might be interested in viewing only the inside market with no quantity. Because there is variation between what different traders want to have displayed the preferred embodiment can be configured to display only those portions which are relevant to the trader. Some examples are provided below to illustrate how the display of the preferred embodiments can be configured to display particular portions of the market information.

Similar to the other displays of the preferred embodiment screen allows a trader to scroll along the static axis with the up and down arrows it allows for the regions to be rearranged it allows other regions to be added such as working order column s and column s for displaying last traded quantity and last traded price etc. A benefit however of showing few columns in the screen is that it saves space on the client device s display. Then a trader can view more markets and or other types of market information which is fed to the client device and displayed.

Additionally an indicator may be used to highlight where the inside market was previously. Such an indicator may appear or reappear on the display after the system receives a re center or re position command. Then when the inside market moves way from the indicator a trader can easily view if the market has moved up or down along the static axis. The indicator can remain on the screen until the next re center or re position command is received in which case the indicator is moved or alternatively the system can be programmed so that the indicator disappears over time to avoid clutter on the screen if desired. The indicator is shown as a line but it can be other types of indicators including graphical indicators and or text based indicators.

As previously described above it is not always necessary to display the price levels e.g. see . In other circumstances a trader might want to display only the price levels in the price region. shows price levels arranged along a static axis. Other regions and indicators including order entry can overlap the price region to display even more market information. For example the inside market is displayed in the price region by numerical and or graphical indicators. In this embodiment graphical indicators surround the lowest ask price of 141 and the highest bid price of 140. Moreover lines e.g. a thin line can be used to indicate price levels with greater accuracy. For instance a trader may wish to highlight a theoretical price value on her screen and consider when the theoretical price value is 140.5. Then the system can use a line that is displayed in a location along the price levels which corresponds to 140.5.

Graphical indicators surround the lowest ask price of 141 and the highest bid price of 140. Market depth indicators or numerical text not shown can be displayed in the price display region so that the trader can determine quantity levels at various price levels. As shown shapes are also used to distinguish bid quantities e.g. triangles from sell quantities e.g. circles . Other shapes may be used. Different levels of market depth can be indicated by various shades of depth. For instance a dark color indicator could indicate a large amount of quantity a light color indicator could indicate no quantity and a color gradient could indicate a quantity somewhere in between. The colors could be set to last for a particular period of time and then dissolve. This might be similar to an image formed on a thermal sensing material where the color dissolves over time. Alternatively a number representing quantity could be positioned inside the cell next to the price. Graphical indicators can also be used to indicate working orders or last traded quantities or other useful items of interest that are described herein.

Unlike some of the previous displays screen does not have cells which are divided by visible borders. In this preferred embodiment the screen has locations for displaying information but the quantity indicators and other types of indicators preferably float over the display and are positioned with reference to price levels positioned but not necessarily displayed along a static axis. This type of screen where the indicators float over the display can be applied to any screen described herein.

Graphical indicators can be used along the curved static axis just as they can be used along a straight static axis. To illustrate some examples shows a bold line which represents price levels at which trades occurred over a period of time e.g. the last 30 days over the last day over the last hour etc. . Indicator shows the lowest ask price and the indicator shows the highest buy price. Indicators and travel along the curved static axis as the market changes. Other indicators can also be used to indicate working orders or last traded quantities or other useful items of interest that are described herein. For example working sell orders are shown for quantities of 10 each at price levels of 156 and 164 and working buy order is shown for a quantity of 5 at a price level of 137.

There are many advantages for displaying market information in a manner that allows a trader to quickly recognize opportunities at various price points. The numerical graphical indicators described above can be applied to quantity levels and or the number of orders at a price level. All of these indicators provide the trader with a way to quickly recognize the quantity of orders at various price points. If the quantity or orders are sufficiently low at a particular price level a trader may be encouraged to enter an order at that level with the goal of maximizing his chances of getting filled at that level if the market moves in that direction.

One way to display market information is to use color to indicate opportunities to the trader. The color can be used to highlight numbers text backgrounds borders and so on such that the trader can quickly recognize the color and react accordingly. Shapes can also be used instead of color or in addition to color. For example a particular shape could be placed near the price levels and or quantities to indicate an opportunity to the trader. Audio signals can also be used in place of graphical indicators or in addition to graphical indicators. For example an audible tone could be provided when an opportunity exists. Once the trader is alerted that an opportunity exists he or she can scan the display for an indicator at the price level where the opportunity exists. Another way to display market information is to use color gradients to show various levels of depth.

The foregoing description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles herein may applied to other embodiments. Therefore it should be understood that the above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and not limitation. Many changes and modifications come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

