---

title: Control system for enabling use of wireless telephones
abstract: Disclosed herein is a control system for enabling use of wireless telephones. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, each one of the wireless telephones are a prepaid wireless telephone associated with one of a plurality of carrier systems having disparate communication protocols. The control system receives a request having transaction information from a client system and processes the request in accordance with stored procedures corresponding with the associated carrier system. The control system sends the request to the carrier system to case usage of the prepaid wireless telephone to be enabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07706774&OS=07706774&RS=07706774
owner: Locus Telecommunications, Inc.
number: 07706774
owner_city: Englewood Cliffs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060808
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 707 284 filed Aug. 11 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for enabling use of prepaid wireless telephones. In particular preferred embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods that facilitate provisioning prepaid wireless telephones and loading airtime minutes onto accounts associated therewith.

Prepaid wireless telephones are typically activated by a carrier of airtime minutes or a reseller thereof and a user may initiate the activation process by calling the reseller. The caller typically provides the reseller with certain information over the phone relating to the activation process such as the identity of the caller the electronic serial number of the prepaid wireless telephone being activated etc. Each carrier is typically associated with at least two distinct business entities each of which have their own outdated infrastructures. To activate the prepaid wireless telephone the reseller must typically undertake a lengthy burdensome process whereby a customer service representative places the caller s telephone call on hold calls a first business to facilitate a provisioning process and then calls another business to facilitate the process of loading airtime minutes onto an account associated with the prepaid wireless telephone being activated. Compounding these inefficiencies the various carriers and prepaid wireless telephones utilize disparate communication protocols e.g. CDMA TDMA GSM etc. which increases the burden on the reseller.

What is needed in the art is a better system and method for enabling use of the prepaid wireless telephone that overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art.

The present invention overcomes the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art by providing a control system for enabling use of prepaid wireless telephones. Furthermore in an exemplary embodiment of the invention each of the prepaid wireless telephones are associated with one of a plurality of disparate communication protocols.

In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the control system receives transaction information from any of a plurality of client systems such as a telephonic device and or computer system. The client systems may be operated by consumer clients such as end users of the prepaid wireless telephones and or dealer clients such as retailers or distributors. The transaction information which is further discussed below may include an electronic serial number a mobile designation number and or other information.

The control system in the exemplary embodiment communicates with a plurality of carrier systems having disparate communication protocols. In this regard the control system communicates with a CDMA carrier system a TDMA carrier system a GSM carrier system and or another carrier system associated with another communications protocol. The control system provides an enablement request to a corresponding one of the carrier systems to cause enablement of a corresponding one of the prepaid wireless telephones. The enablement request may comprise for example a provisioning request a loading request an activation request or a recharge request.

Referring to a prepaid wireless communications network is shown to include a control system constructed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention. The prepaid wireless communications network further includes a plurality of prepaid wireless telephones a plurality of client systems and a plurality of carrier systems which shall each be discussed below.

It is noted that as used herein the terms enable enablement etc. refer broadly to either or both of the processes of provisioning one or more of the prepaid wireless telephones and of loading airtime minutes onto one or more accounts associated therewith. In this regard the terms activation activating etc. refer to the steps for provisioning coupled with additional steps for optionally loading initial airtime minutes such as promotional minutes onto the account whereas recharging refers to the process of adding airtime minutes to the account after activation has occurred.

The control system includes a master server a database server and an interactive voice response IVR system . The master server and the database server are in communication with one another using sockets and the master server and the IVR system are also in communication with one another via sockets. The master server the database server and the IVR system each include one or more electronic processing devices network interface devices and temporary and or permanent memory devices however they may each include any suitable components known in the art. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the master server includes a 2.6 GHZ Intel Pentium 4 Processor one gigabyte of random access memory and a plurality of storage drives and has a Windows 2000 operating system stored thereon. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the database server includes Sun Enterprise 3500 six UltraSPARC II CPUs a RAID hard drive six gigabytes of random access memory and has a Solaris 2.6 operating system stored thereon and an Informix Database Version 9.2.1 stored thereon. The IVR system includes two 1.0 GHZ processors a RAID hard drive five T1 cards for simultaneous support of one hundred and twenty channels and a server. However the master server the database server and the IVR system may each include any suitable components known in the art.

The prepaid wireless telephones include a TDMA phone a GSM phone and a CDMA phone . The TDMA phone is a prepaid wireless telephone operative to communicate using the time division multiple access protocol or another similar protocol. The GSM phone is a prepaid wireless telephone operative to communicate using the global system for mobile communications protocol or another similar protocol. The CDMA phone is a prepaid wireless telephone operative to communicate using the code division multiple access protocol or other similar protocol. As further discussed below the master server is preferably in communication with the TDMA phone for transmission of a text message via e mail. As discussed below the master server may also initiate the sending of a message to the GSM phone from a corresponding one of the carrier systems using Unstructured Supplementary Service Data USSD technology. Although not shown it shall be understood by one skilled in the art that the prepaid wireless telephones of include any desired number and type of prepaid wireless telephones.

As stated above the prepaid wireless communications network also includes the plurality of client systems such as a telephone client system a consumer web client system and a dealer web client system which each include means for sending transaction information to the control system e.g. caller inputs and receiving transaction information e.g. voice prompts or screen messages therefrom. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the client systems may include any suitable number and type of client systems for communicating with the control system . The telephone client system the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system shall each be discussed below in turn.

The telephone client system communicates with the IVR system via a network such as the publicly switched telephone network PSTN shown in . The telephone client system preferably includes a touchtone telephone e.g. guided cellular home wireless etc. for receiving voice and touchtone inputs from a user thereof and for sending transaction information to the IVR system . As used herein the term transaction information generally references any and all types of information data etc. stored on and or communicated between the control system the prepaid wireless telephones the client systems and or the plurality of carrier systems . The types and attributes of transaction information shall be further discussed below with reference to an exemplary process flow.

The dealer web client system and the consumer web client system allow dealers e.g. retailers distributors etc. and consumers respectively to communicate with the master server over a network such as the Internet . The consumer web client system and the dealer web client system each include one or more electronic processing devices network interface devices memory devices user input devices user output devices etc. As shown in the consumer web client system includes a wireless laptop computer system and the dealer web client system includes a desktop computer system. However the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system may each include any suitable hardware and or software. In this regard it should be noted that the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system have been separately designated principally for the purpose of distinguishing between the typical users thereof and the types of transaction information typically communicated therewith.

The client systems include an administrator workstation which is preferably local to the master server . The administrator workstation communicates with the master server via sockets. The administrator workstation preferably includes a computer workstation having a client server relationship with the master server but may include any suitable hardware and or software. In this regard it should be noted that the administrator workstation has so been designated for the purpose of identifying the typical user thereof but does not require specific hardware by virtue of so being designated. As will be further discussed below a caller may telephone or be transferred to a customer service representative who uses the administrator workstation to exchange transaction information with the master server so as to facilitate enablement of one of the prepaid wireless telephones associated with the caller. In some embodiments of the invention the control system comprises the administrator workstation .

Continuing with reference to the plurality of carrier systems are in communication with the master server . Referring to the carrier systems have disparate communication protocols which are therein shown with further detail. The carrier systems include a TDMA carrier system for enabling use of the TDMA phone a CDMA carrier system for enabling use of the CDMA phone a GSM carrier system for enabling use of the GSM phone and or another carrier system not shown for enabling use of a prepaid wireless telephone not shown operating on a communications protocol compatible therewith. The TDMA carrier system the CDMA carrier system and the GSM carrier system shall each be discussed below on a system by system basis.

The TDMA carrier system includes a system for provisioning the TDMA phone which is referenced herein as a TDMA provisioning system and a system for loading airtime minutes onto an account associated with the TDMA phone which is referenced herein as a TDMA loading system . The TDMA provisioning system includes hardware with program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the TDMA provisioning system is a command driven system and the control system may communicate with the TDMA provisioning system using information capture technology which is further discussed below. The TDMA loading system includes hardware and program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art.

The master server of the control system preferably communicates with the TDMA provisioning system and the TDMA loading system through a virtual private network VPN which is referenced herein as a TDMA carrier VPN . The TDMA provisioning system and the TDMA loading system communicate with the TDMA phone through a network which is referenced herein as the TDMA wireless network . In preferred embodiments of the invention the TDMA provisioning system provisions the TDMA phone by initiating an over the air OTA session between the TDMA phone and the TDMA wireless network . The TDMA provisioning system and the TDMA loading system may communicate with another such as to synchronize with one another through the TDMA carrier VPN .

The CDMA carrier system includes a system for provisioning the CDMA phone which is referenced herein as a CDMA provisioning system and a system for loading airtime minutes onto an account associated with the CDMA phone which is referenced herein as a CDMA loading system . The CDMA provisioning system includes hardware with program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the CDMA provisioning system is a JAVA based system and the control system may communicate with the CDMA provisioning system using an application programming interface which is further discussed below. The CDMA loading system includes hardware and program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art.

The master server of the control system preferably communicates with the CDMA provisioning system and the CDMA loading system through a virtual private network VPN which is referenced herein as the CDMA carrier VPN . The CDMA provisioning system and the CDMA loading system communicate with the CDMA phone through a network which is referenced herein as the CDMA wireless network . In preferred embodiments of the invention the CDMA provisioning system provisions the CDMA phone by initiating an OTA session between the CDMA phone and the CDMA wireless network . The CDMA provisioning system and the CDMA loading system may communicate with another such as to synchronize with one another through the CDMA carrier VPN .

The GSM carrier system includes a system for provisioning the GSM phone which is referenced herein as a GSM provisioning system . The GSM provisioning system includes hardware with program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art. The master server of the control system preferably communicates with the GSM provisioning system through a virtual private network which is referenced herein as the GSM carrier VPN . The GSM provisioning system communicates with the GSM phone through a network which is referenced herein as the GSM wireless network . In preferred embodiments of the invention the GSM provisioning system provisions the GSM phone by initiating an OTA session between the GSM phone and the GSM wireless network e.g. to upload programming to a SIM card of the GSM phone . The GSM provisioning system may have some functionality for facilitating the loading of airtime minutes onto an account associated with the GSM phone . Although the exemplary embodiment of the invention is not shown to include a GSM loading system it is contemplated that the GSM carrier system may include a GSM loading system having hardware with program code stored thereon which may include any suitable hardware and or software known in the art. The GSM loading system and the GSM provisioning system may be in communication with one another such as to synchronize with one another.

Referring to an exemplary process flow for enabling use of the prepaid wireless telephones shall now be discussed in connection with the master server the database server the carrier systems and the client systems .

One of the client systems sends transaction information to the master server initiating a new transaction for enabling use of the one of the prepaid wireless telephones corresponding therewith. The master server provides a transaction ID in response thereto and one of the client systems may provide additional transaction information. The master server communicates with the database server and a corresponding one of the carrier systems in a series of requests and replies causing enablement of the corresponding one of the prepaid wireless telephones .

Although not limiting the scope of the invention the client systems such as the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system are preferably browser enabled and communicate with the master server using Extensible Markup Language XML . The master server has program code stored thereon that is preferably written in a scripting language such as the Practical Extraction and Report Language PERL . The master server preferably calls and receives transaction information to and from the database server and carrier systems in plain text string format.

Referring to the exemplary process flow of is further discussed in connection with exemplary modules of program code stored on the master server the database server the IVR system and the carrier systems . As used herein the term module is used to reference a distributed or non distributed set of interrelated program code and or hardwired logic. The term program code refers to data executable instructions and or any other computer readable information.

The master server has a plurality of control modules stored thereon for controlling the flow of transaction information among the various systems of the prepaid wireless communications network . The control modules preferably comprise one or more activation modules information capture modules monitoring modules airtime loading modules and various application programming interfaces not shown . The control modules are in communication with other modules of the prepaid wireless communications network discussed below. Communications between the control modules and the modules of the carrier systems is preferably implemented at the application layer of the OSI model using socket communications to call the separate modules and initiate data exchange. One or more of the control modules such as the monitoring module manage and monitor traffic between the client systems the carrier systems and the database server and provide detailed statistics relating thereto as shown in for example. The control modules preferably include program code for executable queries which are referenced in the plural herein as stored procedures SP and which are further discussed individually below in connection with . Many of the control modules are coded in the Visual Basic program language however any suitable language or hardwiring may be used.

The master server has a plurality of modules stored thereon for interfacing with the client systems so as to facilitate the communication of transaction information therebetween. For example the master server has web interface modules and administrator interface modules stored therein. The web interface modules interface with the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system over the Internet . The administrator interface modules communicate with the administrator workstation over for example a local area network LAN . The master server may also have one or more additional interface modules stored thereon for sending and or receiving transaction information to and or from another client not shown .

The database server has a plurality of databases stored thereon such as an accounting database and another database which is referenced herein as a PCS database . The accounting database and the PCS database are in communication with one another and the control modules . Financial records as well as information relating to promotions and incentive programs may be stored in the accounting database .

The PCS database and or the accounting database preferably include a plurality of modules for implementing database related processes. For example the PCS database preferably uses an Informix Database System with a graphical user interface GUI created using PowerBuilder. The PCS database may also include program code for inventory control reporting fraud protection and system integration functionalities.

The PCS database preferably includes transaction information such as mobile designation numbers MDNs associated with the prepaid wireless telephone electronic serial numbers ESNs associated with the CDMA phone and the TDMA phone international mobile equipment identity IMEI numbers associated with SIM cards for the GSM phone personal identification numbers PINs associated with users thereof passwords activation dates dealer codes ESN changes consumer names and addresses etc. The types of transaction information and the attributes thereof shall be further discussed below with reference to

The IVR system has a plurality of IVR modules stored thereon. For example the IVR modules may include program code for speech recognition and for detection of successful and or failed communications. The IVR modules communicate with the control modules so as to allow communication of transaction information between the control modules and the telephone client system over the PSTN .

The carrier systems have a plurality of modules stored on the systems thereof. The TDMA carrier system includes TDMA provisioning modules stored on the TDMA provisioning system and TDMA loading modules stored on the TDMA loading system . The CDMA carrier system preferably includes CDMA provisioning modules stored on the CDMA provisioning system and CDMA loading modules stored on the CDMA loading system . The GSM carrier system preferably includes GSM provisioning modules stored on the GSM provisioning system . Although the exemplary embodiment of the invention is not shown in to include GSM loading modules it is contemplated that the GSM carrier system may include a GSM loading system or other system having GSM loading modules stored thereon. Furthermore as described herein the GSM provisioning modules preferably have code stored thereon that facilitates activation of the GSM phone.

The control modules control and manage the process flow and the control modules include monitoring modules and one or more activation modules such as an information capture module and or an application programming interface. The information capture module and the loading modules preferably incorporate screen scraping technology or another information capture technology and are able to login and obtain information from the modules of the carrier systems as if being in network therewith.

The control modules communicate and process transaction information between the client systems the database server and the carrier systems . The control modules send enablement requests to the TDMA carrier system the CDMA carrier system and the GSM carrier system to have the prepaid wireless telephones associated therewith provisioned and to have airtime minutes loaded onto accounts associated therewith. The control modules include one or more Daemons and manage one more message queues preferably of an XML format for communications between the control modules and the PCS database the accounting database the CDMA provisioning modules the CDMA loading modules the GSM provisioning modules the TDMA provisioning modules and the TDMA loading modules .

Referring to an exemplary method for enabling use of the prepaid wireless telephones is shown and described. The exemplary method referenced herein as an enablement method shall be discussed with particular attention given to the types and attributes of the transaction information the associations created therebetween and the manner in which executable steps operate thereupon. For the purpose of nonlimiting example the enablement method of is shown and described in connection with the telephone client system and the IVR interface module . However one skilled in the art shall appreciate that the present invention is not so limited. For example a method similar to the enablement method may be used in connection with a consumer web client system or dealer web client system . It shall be understood by one skilled in the art that in the exemplary embodiment of the invention the enablement method is implemented by the master server and or other structure discussed in connection therewith.

Referring to the enablement method is used in connection with the CDMA carrier system the TDMA carrier system the GSM carrier system and another carrier system that is not shown in . Consumers and dealers are typically made aware of a toll free telephone number that may be dialed to activate and or recharge one of the prepaid wireless telephone being sought to be enabled for use. The consumer and or dealer referenced below as a caller dials the toll free telephone number at the telephone client system to initiate communications with the control system .

At step of the enablement method the control system uses a dialed number identification service DNIS to identify the toll free telephone number dialed and or the last four digits thereof which are referenced herein as the DNIS number. The control system has an association stored thereon in a data structure between the DNIS number and the identity of one of the carrier systems corresponding to the one of the prepaid wireless telephone being sought to be enabled for use. The control system compares the DNIS number against stored values to identify whether the caller seeks to enable use of the TDMA phone in connection with the TDMA carrier system the CDMA phone in connection with the CDMA carrier system the GSM phone in connection with the GSM carrier system or another phone in connection.

In this regard the control system identifies the steps through which the enablement method shall proceed. If the DNIS number is associated with the CDMA carrier system then the enablement method proceeds through steps as shown and described in connection with and then proceeds through steps as shown and described in connection with . If the DNIS number is associated with the TDMA carrier system then the enablement method proceeds through steps as shown and described in connection with and then proceeds through steps as shown and described in connection with . If the DNIS number is associated with the GSM carrier system then the enablement method proceeds through steps as shown and described in connection with . It shall be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the enablement method and the control system are scalable for use with any suitable number and type of carrier systems and communication protocols. In this regard at step the control system may identify whether the caller wishes to enable use of a prepaid wireless phone not shown associated with another carrier system not shown .

Referring to steps of the enablement method are shown and described in connection with enabling use of the CDMA phone and or the TDMA phone . At step of the control system stores the dialed DNIS number thereon in a temporary data structure referenced herein as a preliminary data record. The enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to indicate whether the caller is a dealer or a consumer by pressing 1 or 2 respectively. The caller inputs a response at the telephone client system which may be inputted using a touchtone keypad by speaking into a microphone or by other means such as a keyboard. At step the IVR system at least temporarily stores the caller input as part of an activation type in the preliminary data record.

If the activation type is neither 1 nor 2 then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating to the caller that the caller input was invalid and where the enablement method then loops back to step . If the activation type is 1 then the enablement method proceeds to step for dealer specific processing and if the activation type is 2 then the enablement method skips to step discussed below. In this regard all of the transaction information provided by the caller in response to any of the voice prompts Mdiscussed herein is preferably verified for string correctness. It is also noted that the error checking feature of steps and may be utilized throughout the enablement method to error check any suitable input of transaction information. Furthermore each time a user is requested to provide transaction information the user is preferably given two opportunities to do so the transaction information corresponding therewith being error checked each time.

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to enter a five digit dealer code which is then received and at least temporarily stored by the IVR system . At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to confirm the accuracy of the stored dealer code. At step the IVR system receives the caller response to step and therewith identifies whether the stored dealer code was accurately inputted. If the stored dealer code has been inaccurately inputted then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of the invalidity and where the enablement method loops back to step . If the stored dealer code has been accurately inputted then dealer code is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting a four digit dealer password which is then received and at least temporarily stored by the IVR system . The enablement method then proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system sends a call to the master server for implementation of a stored procedure SP. As discussed above the master server has a plurality of stored procedures SPstored thereon many of which implement processes that with respect to the steps of the enablement method may be characterized as substeps thereof. The master server implements the stored procedures SPto process the transaction information to call send and or receive transaction information and to perform other desired functions. Each of the stored procedures SPshall be individually discussed below in connection with one or more steps of the enablement method corresponding thereto.

At step the master server in response to the call for the stored procedure SP validates the dealer code and the dealer password against corresponding transaction information stored in the PCS database of the database server and sends the results of said validation to the IVR system . At step the IVR system identifies whether the dealer code and dealer password are valid. If the dealer code and the dealer password are valid the enablement method skips to step which is discussed below in connection with . If the dealer code and the dealer password are invalid then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of said invalidity and where the enablement method loops back to step .

At step where the caller had previously indicated the caller was a consumer the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to choose between English language and Spanish language voice prompts by inputting 1 or 2 . At step the IVR system receives the caller response to step and therewith determines whether the caller response is a valid selection. If the caller response is invalid then at step the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of the invalidity and the enablement method loops back to step . At step the IVR system loads the voice prompts in the selected language and the enablement method proceeds to step of

With reference to at step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to enter an eleven digit electronic serial number ESN associated with one of the prepaid wireless telephone to be enabled for use e.g. the CDMA phone or the TDMA phone . The ESN is received and at least temporarily stored by the IVR system . At step the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting the caller to confirm the accuracy of the stored ESN. At step the IVR system receives the caller response to step and identifies whether the stored ESN was accurately inputted. If the stored ESN was inaccurately inputted then at step the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of the inaccuracy and the enablement method loops back to step . If the stored ESN is accurate the ESN is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system calls a stored procedure SPfrom the master server to validate the ESN and obtain a status history thereof which is referenced herein as the ESN status history. The master server in response to the call for the stored procedure SP validates the ESN and obtains the ESN status history against corresponding transaction information stored in the PCS database of the database server . In preferred embodiments of the invention the database server stores information in the ESN status history which indicates whether one of the prepaid wireless telephones associated with the ESN is currently active and whether it has been active in the past and when . The ESN status history assists in preventing dealer fraud which shall be further discussed below in connection with steps . The master server sends the results of the validation and the status check to the IVR system .

At step the IVR system identifies whether the ESN is valid. If the ESN is invalid the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of said invalidity and where the enablement method then loops back to step . If the ESN is valid the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system identifies from the ESN status history whether the one of the prepaid wireless telephones associated therewith e.g. the CDMA telephone or the TDMA telephone is active at a point in time substantially concurrent therewith. If the ESN is concurrently active the enablement method proceeds to step wherein the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of said activity and where the enablement method then loops back to step . If the ESN is not concurrently active then the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system identifies from the ESN status history whether the ESN had been active at any point within a predefined period of time precedent thereto e.g. the previous six months . If the ESN has not been active at some point within the predefined period of time precedent thereto then the enablement method skips to step discussed below. If the ESN has been active at some point within the predefined period of time precedent thereto then the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller that the one of the prepaid wireless telephones subject to the transaction is ineligible for promotional airtime minutes and gives the caller an opportunity to proceed with enablement. At step the IVR system identifies whether the caller wishes to continue. If the caller wishes to continue the enablement method skips to step discussed below where the caller may confer with an administrator such as a customer service representative. However if the caller does not wish to continue or hangs up then the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the IVR system flags the preliminary data record as being associated with a potentially fraudulent prepaid wireless transaction updates the status history associated with the ESN and closes the preliminary data record. At step if the caller has not disconnected the call from the telephone client the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the call is terminating.

Steps of the enablement method assist in identifying and preventing dealer fraud such as when a dealer repeatedly attempts to provision the same prepaid wireless telephone in a short period of time. A reseller of carrier services often provides incentives to dealers such as free airtime minutes which are typically based on the number of prepaid wireless telephones sold by the dealer and enabled for use by the reseller. By repeatedly enabling a prepaid wireless telephone for use with the reseller the dealer could fraudulently acquire promotional airtime minutes. However steps disallow repetitive provisioning of the same prepaid wireless telephone.

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system asking the caller to input a 1 if the caller has a starter kit and to input a 2 if the caller does not have a starter kit. A starter kit is a promotional kit provided by the reseller to the dealer which may then accompany a sale of a prepaid wireless telephone and or services relating thereto. For example a starter kit is typically free and provides a consumer with promotional free airtime minutes. The starter kit may be used by the reseller as an incentive for consumers to buy one of the reseller s prepaid wireless telephones and or enabling services.

At step the IVR system identifies the caller response to step and if the caller has not inputted a 1 or 2 then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the caller input was invalid and where the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller has inputted a 1 or 2 then the enablement method skips to step . At step the IVR system identifies which of 1 or 2 was inputted by the caller. If the caller inputted a 1 indicating that the caller has a starter kit then the enablement method skips to step of . Otherwise the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the IVR system refers to the presence or absence of a dealer code to identify whether the caller is a dealer or consumer. If the caller is a dealer then the enablement method skips to step of . If the caller is a consumer that does not have a starter kit then the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the caller will be transferred to a customer service representative transfers the caller to a customer service representative accessing administrator workstation creates a transaction record from the preliminary data record updates a plurality of logs associated with the transaction and updates and closes the preliminary data record. The customer service representative can then view the transaction record at the administrator workstation .

With reference to the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting that the caller input a nine digit numeric portion of an alphanumeric starter kit code disposed on the starter kit. At step the IVR system receives and temporarily stores the caller response to step as a starter kit PIN and requests the caller to confirm that the IVR system accurately stored and received the starter kit PIN. At step the IVR system identifies the caller response to step . If the stored starter kit PIN was incorrect the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the input was invalid and where the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller confirmed that the stored starter kit PIN is accurate the starter kit PIN is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system sends a call to the master server for implementation of a stored procedure SPto validate the starter kit PIN. The master server in response thereto validates the starter kit PIN against corresponding transaction information stored in the PCS database of the database server and sends the results of said validation to the IVR system . At step the IVR system identifies whether the master server has indicated that the master server has identified the starter kit PIN as being valid. The enablement method skips from step to step if the starter kit PIN is neither invalid nor a duplicate of a previously used starter kit PIN.

If the starter kit PIN is invalid then the enablement method proceeds from step to step where the IVR system identifies whether the caller has entered an invalid starter kit PIN less than two times and if so the enablement method loops back to step If not the enablement method proceeds to step . Step is an example of the double error checking discussed above in connection with steps and .

At step the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system and transfers the caller to a customer service representative accessing the administrator workstation a transaction record is created from the preliminary data record and the master server sends the transaction record to the administrator workstation . If the starter kit PIN is valid but it is a duplicate of a starter kit PIN already used then the enablement method skips to step . In the event that a caller inputs an invalid or duplicate starter kit PIN the IVR system flags the preliminary data record as being related to a potentially fraudulent transaction.

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting that the caller input a three digit telephone area code that the caller desires to be associated with the one of the prepaid wireless telephones sought to be enabled e.g. the CDMA phone or the TDMA phone . This three digit telephone area code is referenced herein as the numbering plan area NPA code. The IVR system receives and temporarily stores the caller response to step and at step requests the caller to confirm that the IVR system accurately stored and received the NPA code. At step the IVR system identifies whether the caller response to step is valid. If the caller response is invalid the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the input was invalid and the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller response is valid the enablement method proceeds to step where a stored procedure SPis called.

At step the master server accesses the PCS database of the database server to identify whether there are any available seven digit wireless telephone numbers that are associated with the NPA code and if so what rate areas e.g. cities markets etc. are associated with the NPA code. If no wireless telephone numbers are available then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that no wireless telephone numbers are available for the selected NPA code and where the enablement method loops back to step .

If there are wireless telephone numbers available the enablement method skips to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Marticulating each of the available rate areas and a numerical input associated with each of the areas. The caller is also afforded an opportunity to have the voice prompt Mrepeated. The enablement method then proceeds to step where the IVR system identifies the caller response. If the caller has chosen to have the voice prompt Mrepeated the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller has chosen a valid rate area then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system calls a stored procedure SPto have the master server retrieve a seven digit wireless telephone number referenced herein as a mobile designation number MDN and provides the MDN to the IVR system . The enablement method proceeds from step to step of

Referring to at step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system that identifies the MDN and asks whether the caller would like to have the MDN associated with one of the prepaid wireless phones being sought to be enabled for use. At step the IVR system identifies whether the caller has chosen to accept the MDN and if so the MDN is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method skips to step . If the caller does not accept the MDN the IVR system identifies whether the caller has done so more than three times. If the caller has opted more than three times to not accept the MDN the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system and takes action associated therewith. The IVR system calls a stored procedure SPfrom the master server that releases any MDNs not accepted by the caller.

If the caller has opted three or less times to not accept the MDN the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system calls a stored procedure SPto have the master server retrieve the next MDN associated with the selected NPA code and rate center. If there are no other MDNs associated with the selected NPA code and rate center then the enablement method loops back to step . If there is another MDN associated with the NPA code and rate center then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system asking whether the caller would accept the next MDN. If the user chooses not to accept the next MDN then the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller accepts the next MDN then the next MDN is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step which shall be discussed further below.

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that activation is about to occur. The enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system imparts its imprimatur to the preliminary data record and then proceeds to step where the preliminary data record is forwarded to the master server .

As stated above steps of show common shared procedures for enabling use of the CDMA phone and the TDMA phone . As used herein common procedures refers to steps that are utilized by the control system for enabling use of the CDMA phone and for enabling use of the TDMA phone. In accordance with step of if the caller is seeking to enable use of the CDMA phone then the enablement method proceeds from step of to step of . However if the caller is seeking to enable use of the TDMA phone then the enablement method skips to from step of to step of

Referring to the CDMA related procedures shall now be discussed in further detail. show steps of the enablement method relating to activation of the CDMA phone which preferably include provisioning the CDMA phone creating an account associated therewith and the loading of promotional airtime minutes onto the account. shows the loading of additional minutes onto the account e.g. recharging .

Referring to step of the master server receives the preliminary data record logs receipt thereof creates a transaction record therefrom assigns a transaction ID number thereto and proceeds to step where the master server implements a stored procedure SPthat returns the user name and password for accessing the CDMA provisioning system . The user name and password are preferably unique with respect to each control system e.g. to each reseller . At step the master server updates its logs accordingly and proceeds to step .

At step the master server launches an application programming interface API for communicating with the CDMA provisioning module . The control modules identify whether a session therewith is available. If a session is not available then the enablement method may loop for a defined period of time to check for a session. If a session is not available then the caller is transferred to a customer service representative. If a session is available then the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server communicates with the CDMA provisioning modules to launch the session. The enablement method then proceeds to step .

At steps the master server typically undergoes a series of steps for retrieving transaction information to be provided to the CDMA provisioning modules and for confirming receipt thereof. In the event that the transaction information is not received the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server has the IVR system send the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the caller will be transferred to a customer service representative. At step the caller is then transferred to a customer service representative accessing the administrator workstation . Steps shall now be discussed with further detail.

At step the control modules attempt retrieval of the ESN from the transaction record and at step check whether the attempted retrieval of the ESN was successful regardless of whether the ESN had previously been used . If the ESN was successfully retrieved the enablement method skips to step otherwise the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated as discussed above.

At step the control modules attempt retrieval of a zip code associated with the selected ten digit NPA MDN combination by looking up the first six digits thereof. At step the control modules verify whether the attempted retrieval of the zip code was successful. If the zip code was properly retrieved the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated.

Referring to at step the control modules attempt retrieval of a mobile identification number MIN from the CDMA provisioning system . The MIN is typically a number such as a ten digit number used by a carrier to associate its systems with the ten digit NPA MDN combination. In some cases a given MIN and a given ESN may be uniquely associated with one another. The MIN and codes analogous thereto such as the MSID discussed below are collectively referenced herein as wireless carrier telephone numbers. Because the MDN is not directly associated with a given carrier the MDN can be easily moved from said carrier to a new carrier simply by re associating the MDN with the MIN or MSID etc. of the new carrier.

At step the control modules check whether the attempted retrieval of the MIN was successful. If the MIN was successfully retrieved the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method goes to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated. At step the control modules have the CDMA provisioning modules reserve the MIN which means that the CDMA provisioning modules at least temporarily create a stored association between the retrieved MIN and the caller selected MDN. If the MIN was successfully reserved then the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method skips to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated.

At step the control modules undergo a series of other substeps for retrieving any additional information the CDMA carrier systems may benefit from having and at step confirms whether said retrieval was successful. Such information may include for example a reference number of an order number created from the next available number. If the additional information was properly retrieved the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method skips to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated.

At step the control modules input the retrieved transaction information into one or more fields of a graphical user interface GUI of the CDMA provisioning modules and at step confirm whether said submission was successful. If the transaction information was properly inputted the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method skips to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated. At step the control modules submit a provisioning request to for example an API. At step the control modules confirm whether said submission was made. If the submission was made the enablement method proceeds to step otherwise the enablement method skips to step where the voice prompt Mis initiated. At step the master server receives a reply from the CDMA provisioning modules e.g. via the API indicating that the provisioning request was successful. The enablement method proceeds to step where the master server implements a stored procedure SPthat send transaction information such the DNIS the dealer code the ESN the activation type the starter kit PIN if any and the MDN. In return the corresponding PIN and user name and password are retrieved. The enablement method proceed from step of to step of

Referring to at step the master server provides the user ID and password to the CDMA loading system . At step the control modules confirm that the master server has effectively logged into the CDMA loading system . If the master server fails to log into the CDMA loading system then the enablement method loops back to step affording the caller two retries before causing the voice prompt Mto be sent to the caller and connecting the caller to a customer service representative accessing the administrator workstation . If the master server has successfully logged onto the CDMA loading system then the enablement method proceeds from step to step .

At step an account is created in association with the CDMA phone being enabled for use. The account is created using the MDN and PIN associated with the CDMA phone . Promotional airtime minutes may be loaded onto the account in accordance with the dealer code the starter kit PIN and any other information that may be representative of a promotion. At step the account creation is verified for success and if the account was successfully created the enablement method skips to step discussed below. If the account was not successfully created the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the control modules logout of the CDMA loading system and at step the master server causes the IVR system to send the voice prompt Mto the caller and forwards the caller and the transaction record to the customer service representative and the administrator workstation respectively. The enablement method proceeds to step where the PCS Database is updated and the call ends at step .

At step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the CDMA phone has been activated and providing instructions as to how the caller can initiate transmission of over the air programming. The CDMA provisioning system initiates an OTA session between the CDMA phone and the CDMA wireless network accordingly. The voice prompt Malso gives the caller an opportunity to obtain further assistance by asking the caller to input a 1 for further assistance or a 2 for no further assistance.

At step the master server identifies whether the caller would like additional assistance or not. If the caller does not prefer additional assistance then the enablement method proceeds to step discussed above. If the caller does not need any additional assistance then the enablement method proceeds to step where the status of the caller is maintained e.g. preferably in a manner similar to that of step . If the caller is not a dealer then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the call is terminating. If the caller is a dealer then the enablement method skips to step . The dealer may also bypass steps and by proceeding from step to step via a dealer timeout .

At step the master server identifies whether the dealer has already activated ten prepaid wireless telephones. If the dealer has already activated ten prepaid wireless telephones then the enablement method skips to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the call is terminating. If the dealer has not already activated ten prepaid wireless telephones then the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent and the dealer is afforded an opportunity to elect to activate another one of the prepaid wireless telephones . At step the master server identifies whether the dealer wishes to enable use of another one of the prepaid wireless telephones and if so the enablement method loops back to step of

Referring to steps of a caller may have minutes loaded onto the account in addition to those promotional minutes if any that were previously loaded onto the account after provisioning of the CDMA phone . Steps may also typically be implemented to recharge an account which is when the user of the CDMA phone has used up his or her airtime minutes and wishes to purchase additional airtime minutes and have said additional airtime minutes loaded onto the account associated with the CDMA phone . Because steps may be implemented independently of steps no connection of flow is shown between and the steps of . Because recharging typically occurs after activation however steps shall be discussed at this point in the description of the exemplary embodiments.

At step the master server logs into the CDMA loading system and provides the user ID and password and proceeds to step where the master server identifies whether the login was successful. If the login was not successful then the enablement method loops back to step . If the login was successful then the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the master server searches the database server for the MDN corresponding to the CDMA phone that is sought to be enabled for use. The enablement method proceeds to step where the master server identifies whether it has successfully located the MDN. If the master server has not located the MDN then the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server is logged out from its session with the CDMA loading system and an error is noted on the transaction record. If the master server does identify the MDN the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the CDMA loading modules apply a credit of airtime minutes to the account associated with the CDMA phone which is done by validating the PIN. The PIN may be provided by the caller however it is preferred that the PIN is not known to the caller. Rather the control system provides a transaction ID to the caller upon successfully loading airtime. A PIN is a code that is commonly under the control of the carrier while the transaction ID is a representation of the successful loading of airtime minutes e.g. using the PIN . The PCS database stores an association between the PIN and the transaction ID.

Continuing with reference to step the master server retrieves the PIN from the PCS database and provides the PIN to the CDMA loading system . The CDMA loading system provides additional airtime minutes onto the account associated with the CDMA phone sought to be enabled for use. At step the master server identifies whether the loading of airtime minutes was successful and if it was not the enablement method skips to step where the master server is logged out from its session with the CDMA loading system . If the master server was successful in loading the minutes the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server is logged out and a voice prompt is sent to the telephone client device indicating to the caller that the recharge was successful.

Referring to steps of the enablement method are shown and described in connection with enabling use of the TDMA phone . As discussed above in the event the caller desires to enable use of the TDMA phone the caller uses the telephone client system to connect with the IVR system . At step of it is identified that the TDMA carrier system corresponds to one of the prepaid wireless telephones being enabled for use and the enablement method proceeds through steps of . Then at step the enablement method proceeds to step of and steps are implemented as shown and described.

For the purpose of clarity it is noted that the flow of steps is shown to weave between the flow chart sections of . The flow is shown as such so as to group steps having some common features on the same drawing sheet. For example many of steps and steps relate to provisioning and have thus been shown together on and . Furthermore many of steps and steps relate to loading and have thus been shown together on 

Referring to at step the master server receives the preliminary data record from the IVR system logs said receipt thereof creates a transaction record therefrom assigns a transaction ID number thereto and proceeds to step . At step the master server implements a stored procedure SP which sends transaction information associated with the transaction record to the PCS database such as the DNIS the ESN the MDN and the activation type. In return the database server provides to the master server a user name and password for accessing the TDMA provisioning modules . The master server may retrieve additional transaction information from the database server at step particular to the type of TDMA provisioning system being utilized. In the exemplary embodiment of the invention the master server outputs the user name and password the activation type a CIMACPR code analogous to the rate area discussed above but associated with certain markets a client ID and an account number.

The promotion code is stored in the accounting database in association with the activation type and dealer code. The master server can identify the promotion code by providing the dealer code and the activation type to the database and by requesting the promotion code in response thereto. There are preferably three types of promotions including RP where the dealers buy and activate phones sold by the reseller DP where the dealers activate phones not purchased from the reseller and SK where the dealers sell the starter kit to end users who may activate their one of the prepaid wireless telephones . In each of the three cases the dealers and consumers preferably receive free promotional airtime minutes. However the quantity may vary depending upon the activation type e.g. promotions . During activation of the TDMA phone the promotional minutes are preferably loaded onto the consumer s account associated with the TDMA phone . It is noted that one skilled in the art shall appreciate that embodiments of the invention relating to the CDMA phone and or the GSM phone may also incorporate the promotion features herein described in connection with the TDMA phone .

Continuing with reference to after the master server receives the transaction information from the database server at step the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server updates its logs accordingly. The enablement method then proceeds to step where the master server formats a record having the user name and password for accessing the TDMA provisioning modules the CIMACPR code the customer ID the MDN selected by the caller the ESN and an account number. The enablement method proceeds to step where the master server identifies whether a session is available with the TDMA provisioning modules and loops for a predefined period of time until a session is available. If a session is available the enablement method proceeds to step where the master server calls the interface program at the TDMA provisioning system . The call may be forwarded to a customer service representative if a session is unavailable.

The enablement method proceeds to step where terminal emulation software is opened. Provisioning of the TDMA phone then proceeds in connection with steps of the enablement method as shown in and then later proceeds through steps also shown in . Various TDMA provisioning modules are known in the art and for the purpose of illustration exemplary screens thereof are referenced as screen SC wherein n is representative of a screen number. As stated above the control modules preferably comprise display capture modules such as those incorporating a screen scraping technology for communicating with the TDMA provisioning system . As used herein the terms screen scraping etc. refer to software that extracts data from a screen without requiring substantial user intervention.

At step the control modules pass the CIMACPR code to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the CIMACPR code to a field thereof corresponding to a screen SCand by appending the CIMACPR code with an enter function code. The enablement method proceeds to step where the control modules pass the user name and password for accessing the TDMA provisioning system to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the user name and password to fields thereof corresponding a screen SC. The enablement method proceeds to step where the control modules pass the enter function code to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the enter function code to a field thereof corresponding to a screen SC SYM. The enablement method then proceeds to step . At step if the CIMAC is not equal to PR then the enablement method skips to step . This is an exception case for when CIMAC equals PR for a certain market set by the TDMA carrier system .

At step the control modules pass the enter function code to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the enter function code to a field thereof corresponding to a screen SC SYM and the enablement method skips to step . At step the control modules pass the client ID to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the enter function code to a field thereof corresponding to the screen SC SYM and the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the control modules pass the string to the TDMA provisioning modules by sending the string to a field thereof corresponding to a screen SC SYM. The enablement method proceeds to step .

At steps further transaction information is passed into the fields of the TDMA provisioning modules corresponding with the screen displays thereof. At step and a screen SC RRM the string the account number a tab function code the MDN and the enter function code are passed to the TDMA provisioning modules . At step at a Screen the string ACT the string NN the ESN and the F12 function code are passed to the TDMA provisioning modules . At step at a Popup the tab function code and PPW prepaid wireless CWT call waiting CFW call forward PA voicemail and text message CNI caller ID M1 test message activation code information are passed as well as the F5 function code. At step at a screen SC Supp three tab function codes the string A the tab function code to the Class Field sting string string tab function code entry to the OAA Request Field string Y twice string y once and the string Enter in the Enter field are passed. At step at a screen SC the string the account number a tab function code and the MDN are passed. At step at a Screen the control modules scrape for the MSID Line Char or TNI Error Line Char . The enablement method preferably then proceeds to the loading process at step of

At step at a screen an F3 function code is passed and at step and the screen SC SYM the string is passed. At step at the screen SC RRM the string is passed and at step at the screen SWM Screen the home key function code the string FINDALL the tab function code the string ESN and the ESN are passed in either hex or dec format. At step the control modules preferably screen scrape for success or errors update the transaction record accordingly and check to confirm that the telephone client system is still in communication therewith. The enablement method then proceeds to step .

At step the control system proceeds back to the session with the TDMA provisioning modules and at step identifies whether there is a TNI screen. If there is a TNI screen then the enablement method proceeds to step where the F3 function code is passed the F3 function code is again passed and the string is passed and the enablement method proceeds to step of . If there is no TNI screen then the enablement method skips to step where the F3 function code the string and the enter function code are passed and the enablement method proceeds to step of

At step of the control modules identify whether the MSID number was successfully retrieved. The MSID number is analogous to the MIN discussed above in connection with the CDMA carrier system and similarly thereto is a type of a wireless carrier telephone number as such term has been discussed above. In the event that the MSID number has not been successfully retrieved then the enablement method proceeds to step where an error is recorded the logs are updated and the transaction record is closed. Also at step the master server implements a stored procedure SPto update the PCS database in accordance with the error and the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that the call will be transferred to a customer service representative. In the event that the MSID has been successfully received then the enablement method skips to step where the master server implements a stored procedure SPto update the PCS database accordingly. The enablement method proceeds from step of to steps of

At step the control modules create a replenishment record which is a term used to describe the account associated with the TDMA phone onto which airtime minutes may be loaded. The master server implements a stored procedure SP which provides the DNIS activation type ESN and the dealer code to the database server and retrieves the units and PIN denominations from the database server for the TDMA loading modules . At step the master server implements a stored procedure SP which provides the MDN to the database server and receives the user name and password for the TDMA loading modules . At step the control modules run the TDMA loading modules and at step the control system logs therein and the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step it is confirmed whether the MDN has been found and if it has so been then the enablement method proceeds to step where airtimes minutes are loaded onto the account. The airtime minutes are preferably but not necessarily loaded in increments of thirty or less minutes. The enablement method proceeds from step to step . If the MDN was not successfully found then the enablement method skips from step to step . At step the control modules identify whether airtime minutes were successfully loaded onto the account associated with the TDMA phone and if they were not then the enablement method proceeds to step . At step the transaction record and logs are updated accordingly and where the enablement method proceeds to step to further update the logs notify the caller of the failure close the transaction record and send the voice prompt M. As stated above if the airtime minutes were successfully loaded then the enablement method proceeds from step to step .

At step the control modules update the logs and the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system indicating that activation has been successful. As shown in the control system may then send a text message to the TDMA phone for display of the MDN to the user thereof. Referring back to the caller is asked whether assistance is needed with programming the TDMA phone and the caller may indicate that such assistance is needed by inputting 1 or not needed by inputting 2 . The transaction record is updated accordingly and closed and the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step it is identified whether the caller pressed 1 whether the caller pressed 2 or whether a dealer timeout occurred. If the caller pressed 1 the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent where the call is transferred to a customer service representative and the enablement method proceeds to step discussed below. If a dealer timeout has occurred then the enablement method proceeds to step discussed below. If the caller pressed 2 then the enablement method proceeds to step where it is identified whether the caller is a dealer. If the caller is a dealer then the enablement method proceeds to step discussed below. If a dealer is not calling then the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent the call is disconnected and the enablement method proceeds to step discussed below.

As stated above the enablement method proceeds to step upon dealer timeout. At step the control modules identify whether the dealer has already activated ten prepaid wireless telephones on the same call. If the caller has done so then the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent to the telephone client system the call is disconnected and the enablement method proceeds to step discussed below. If less than ten activations have occurred on the same call then voice prompt Mis sent to the telephone client system to ask the dealer whether additional prepaid wireless telephone are to be activated. If the dealer indicates that no further activations are to occur then the enablement method proceeds to step discussed above and then proceeds to step . If the caller desires to activate another one of the prepaid wireless telephone then the enablement method loops back to step of

At step the master server implements the stored procedure SPto update the PCS database accordingly. The enablement method proceeds to step back to the session with the TDMA provisioning modules . At step the control modules identify whether there is a TNI screen. If the TNI screen is not identified then the enablement method proceeds to step where the F3 function code the string and the enter function code are passed. If the TNI screen is identified then the enablement method proceeds to step where the F3 function code is twice passed the string is passed and the enter function code is passed. From step and or step the enablement method proceeds to step at screen SCto await another transaction and to step the present transaction ends.

Referring to steps of the enablement method are shown and described in connection with enabling use of the GSM phone . As discussed above in the event the caller desires to enable use of the GSM phone the caller uses the telephone client system to connect with the IVR system . At step of it is identified that the GSM carrier system corresponds to the one of the prepaid wireless telephones being enabled for use and the enablement method proceeds to step shown in for implementation of steps as shown and described.

Steps of are similar to the steps described above in connection with and steps have been so designated by reference numbers corresponding thereto being increased by four hundred. In proceeding through steps the DNIS number is stored in the preliminary data record and the caller identified whether the caller is a dealer or consumer. The control system obtains and stores in the preliminary data record the dealer code if any the dealer password if any and the caller s selected language. However whereas it is shown and described in connection with that the language choices include English and Spanish it is shown and described in connection with that the language choices include English Spanish and Korean. It shall be clear to one skilled in the art that any suitable language may be implemented. The enablement method proceeds from step of to step of

Referring to at step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system asking the caller to input a 1 if the caller has a fast code or a 2 if the caller does not have a fast code. As used herein the term fast code is used to reference a number typically assigned to the GSM phone by the reseller and associated therewith in the PCS database . Whereas the fast code may be eight digits in length for example the SIM card number and IMEI may be about thirty five digits in length. By entering the fast code instead of the SIM card number and IMEI number the caller enters less digits and is less susceptible to inadvertently entering a wrong digit as a result of lack of finger coordination fat fingers etc.

At step the caller s response to voice prompt Mis identified. If the caller has provided an invalid response then the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto indicate said invalidity and loops back to step . If the caller indicates having a fast code then the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent requesting the fast code. The caller response thereto is analyzed and at step the voice prompt Mis sent requesting confirmation that the fast code was accurately identified.

If the caller indicates that the fast code was correctly identified the fast code is stored in the preliminary data record and the control modules validate the fast code against the PCS database which may be done using a stored procedure. The control modules retrieve a subscriber identity module SIM card number status relating thereto referenced as the SIM status history and a serial number such as an international mobile equipment identity IMEI corresponding to the GSM phone . If step is successful then the SIM card number SIM status history and IMEI are stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step which is discussed below in connection with . If it is not successful then the enablement method loops back to step where voice prompt Mis sent and where the enablement method then loops back to step thereby affording the caller another opportunity to provide the fast code.

If the caller did not have a fast code then at step the IVR system sends a voice prompt Mto the telephone client system requesting that the caller provide the SIM card number and the control system identifies the response of the caller thereto. At step the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto confirm the accuracy of the identified SIM card number and at step the control system identifies the response of the caller thereto. If the caller has indicated that the identified SIM card number is inaccurate then the enablement method proceeds to step where the voice prompt Mis sent to the caller indicating that the caller should reenter the SIM card number and where the enablement method loops back to step . If the caller has indicated that the identified SIM card number is accurate then the SIM card number is stored in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds to step . The IMEI is preferably stored in the PCS database in association with the SIM card number and may be stored in the preliminary data record.

At step the IVR system calls a stored procedure SPfrom the master server to validate the SIM card number and obtain a status history thereof referenced herein as SIM status information. The master server in response to the call for the stored procedure SP validates the SIM card number and obtains the SIM status information therefore against corresponding transaction information stored in the PCS database of the database server . The master server sends the results of the validation and status check to the IVR system . In preferred embodiments of the invention the database server stores information in the SIM status history indicating that an instance of attempted activation has occurred in connection with the SIM card number and may also store additional information associated with said instance of attempted activation e.g. the dealer code etc. . The SIM status history assists in preventing fraud such as that described above in connection with the ESN status history and steps of

At step the control system identifies whether the SIM card number is valid. If the SIM card number is invalid the enablement method loops back to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of said invalidity and the enablement method then loops back to step . If the SIM card number is valid the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the IVR system identifies from the SIM status information whether the GSM phone is active concurrently therewith. If the SIM card number is active the enablement method proceeds to step where the IVR system sends the voice prompt Mto the telephone client system informing the caller of said activity and the enablement method loops back to step allowing the caller to provide another SIM card number. If the SIM card number is not currently active then the SIM card number SIM status history and IMEI number corresponding thereto are saved in the preliminary data record and the enablement method proceeds from step of to step of

Steps of are similar to the steps described above in connection with and steps have been so designated by reference numbers corresponding thereto being increased by four hundred. In proceeding through steps the NPA code the market which corresponds to the rate area and a caller selected MDN are received by the control system and stored in the preliminary data record. A billing account number BAN associated the GSM phone is also stored therein as well as an indication of which activation software is associated with the transaction. Although shows one set of GSM provisioning modules two alternative sets of provisioning modules may be used wherein each set is associated with a different business entity and in some embodiments of the invention a different GSM provisioning system. In this regard each MDN is associated with one of the two systems and in order to implement the appropriate system the master server evaluates the MDN.

At step the IVR system imparts its imprimatur to the preliminary data record and the enablement method then proceeds to step where the preliminary data record is forwarded to the master server . The enablement method then proceeds to step of for processing in connection with the activation of the GSM phone .

Referring to at step the control system identifies which set of GSM provisioning modules are to be used to provision the GSM phone . The control modules include an application programming interface API for communication with the GSM provisioning modules through the GSM carrier VPN . If a first set for example is to be used then the enablement method proceeds to step . If a second set for example is to be used then the enablement method proceeds to step .

At step the market information is retrieved by the control modules and at step the control modules submit an API activation request to the GSM provisioning modules associated with the first set. The enablement method proceeds to step to check the status of the API activation request and at step the control modules check to identify whether the GSM provisioning system has activated the GSM phone . The enablement method preferably checks six times once every three seconds whether activation has occurred looping back to step each time a check is undertaken. Once activation has been achieved the enablement method proceeds to step where additional service features may be added to the GSM phone using the API. At step the submission of additional features is checked for success and if successful the enablement method proceeds to step where the additional features are dialed into the GSM phone . The GSM provisioning system initiates wireless communications with the GSM phone for communicating with the SIM card thereof and programming is uploaded to the SIM card relating to provisioning. In some embodiments of the invention the GSM wireless network may communicate a confirming USSD message to the GSM phone . The enablement method proceeds from step and step to step where the transaction ends.

At step the market information is retrieved by the control modules and at step the control modules submit an API activation request to the GSM provisioning modules associated with the second set. The enablement method proceeds to step to get the result thereof and step to identify if the request was successful. If the request was a failure the enablement method proceeds from step to step where the control modules log a failure. If the request was successful the enablement method proceeds from step to step where the control modules log a success.

It shall be clear to one skilled in the art that the systems and methods for enabling use of the prepaid wireless telephones may relate to any subcombination of steps of the enablement method . For example at least some embodiments of the invention may relate to any one or more of provisioning loading activating and recharging. It is also noted that the terms and phrases step X proceeds from step X to step Y skips from step X to step M substeps at step X loops to step X etc. shall not be construed to limit the scope of the invention so as to require that certain features of the invention be implemented in a particular sequence. For example the steps of the enablement method may proceed in accordance with any suitable sequence and or logic appreciated by one skilled in the art. In some embodiments of the invention the logic of a single step may be distributed across multiple steps and or multiple steps may be combined into a single step. Moreover multiple steps may be processed at substantially the same step such as when master server has parallel processing capabilities.

Referring to screen shots are shown and shall be described in connection with the administrator interface modules shown in and the administrator workstation shown in . The administrator interface modules provide a graphical user interface GUI which the customer service representative or other administrator may access using the administrator workstation . As shown and described in connection with the administrator workstation is preferably local to the master server and communicate therewith using via sockets. The administrator workstation may be networked with the master server on a reseller intranet for example. However the administrator workstation and the administrator interface modules may communicate by any suitable method and across any physical distance e.g. between New York City United States and New Delhi India such as a VPN connection established across any distance between the master server and the administrator workstation . The administrator workstation preferably has web browser software stored therein for communicating transaction information with the administrator interface modules of the master server . The administrator interface modules may also be accessible over the Internet at an address such as one in the format http subdomain.domain.tld or any other format known in the art.

Referring to the administrator interface modules enable an interactive administrative display having disposed therein a plurality of network status indicators a transaction information spreadsheet shown with greater detail in and an interactive menu each of which shall be discussed below in further detail. The interactive administrative display also has disposed therein an interactive center panel which is separately designated and discussed below in connection with .

The network status indicators preferably include a matrix of simulated LEDs. The matrix preferably includes nine simulated LEDs arranged in three columns and three rows. The columns are preferably labeled TDMA corresponding to the TDMA carrier system CDMA corresponding to the CDMA carrier system and GSM corresponding to the GSM carrier system and the rows are preferably labeled IVR Web Activation and Recharge. Each of the simulated LEDs is capable of being displayed in one of the colors green red or yellow to indicate the status of the IVR Web interfaces the activation features and the recharging features for a carrier network corresponding thereto. The representative meaning of each color may be assigned by the reseller operating the control system . It shall be understood that additional columns may be added to be representative of the status of carrier systems other than the TDMA carrier system the CDMA carrier system and the GSM carrier system .

The transaction information spreadsheet has disposed therein the transaction information associated with multiple transactions enabling use of the prepaid wireless telephones . The transaction information spreadsheet may be wider the screen it is displayed on in which case the customer service representative may scroll the interactive administrative interface to the right or left to view the right and left sections of the transaction information spreadsheet . Left and right sections of the transaction information spreadsheet are discussed below with reference to and respectively.

The interactive menu has disposed therein a list of administrator selectable function tabs including a Single Activation Request a Batch Activation Request a Single Recharge Request a Batch Recharge Request a Single Credit Request a transaction search filter Search Transactions an SID Search Filter an Export Batch and a Batch Monitor each of which shall be discussed below with reference to .

Referring to the interactive administrative display includes an interactive single activation panel corresponding to the Single Activation Request tab of the interactive menu . The customer service representative may initiate activation of one of the prepaid wireless telephones from the interactive single activation panel which includes fields and drop down menus. The interactive single activation panel includes a dealer code field a dealer password field a product type drop down menu an ESN IMEI field a SIM field a fast code field a starter kit PIN field and an NPA field. A customer service representative can use the interactive single activation panel to activate e.g. provision and load initial airtime minutes one of the prepaid wireless telephones by inputting information into some or all of the fields and or drop down menus and selecting Continue . The customer service representative may then input the rate area and or market in another screen not shown .

Referring to the interactive administrative display includes two interactive batch activation panels which correspond to the Batch Activation Request tab of the interactive menu . The customer service representative may initiate activation e.g. provisioning and loading of initial airtime minutes of a plurality of the prepaid wireless telephones associated with a dealer sales order number from the interactive batch activation panels . At the first interactive batch activation panel the customer service representative inputs the dealer sales order number into a sale order number field and selects Continue . Then at the second interactive batch activation panel the customer service representative inputs corresponding information into a dealer code field a dealer password field a product type drop down menu an activation type drop down menu and an ESN NPA and or rate area search field where the customer service representative can upload a file containing for example ESNs NPAs and city names.

It is noted that many of the fields discussed herein shall be disposed in more than one of the interactive center panels however each of said fields are separately designated herein for reference purposes. For example the interactive single activation panel has the dealer code field while the interactive batch activation panel has the dealer code field . Although the dealer code fields have similar attributes they may be used in a different context.

Referring to the interactive administrative display includes an interactive single recharge panel which corresponds to the Single Recharge Request tab of the interactive menu . The customer service representative may initiate a recharge loading of airtime minutes of one of the prepaid wireless telephones . At the interactive single recharge panel the customer service representative inputs corresponding information into a product type field an MDN field and an authorization code for the recharge. The customer service representative also input the amount of airtime minutes to be added in either a denomination field or a units field depending on the way in which the carrier systems measure airtime minutes. For example the CDMA carrier system and the GSM carrier system might require that a denomination be provided where the TDMA carrier system might require that units be provided. Referring to a batch recharge request may be initiated from an interactive batch recharge panel of the interactive administrative display which corresponds to the Batch Recharge Request tab of the interactive menu . The interactive batch recharge panel is shown in to include a product type drop down menu and an MDN Unit Denomination search field and may be used to initiate the loading of airtime minutes into a plurality of accounts.

Referring to a credit request may be initiated from an interactive credit request panel of the interactive administrative display which corresponds to the Single Credit Request tab of the interactive menu . A credit may be appropriate for example when a user has been disconnected from a call and requests a refund of airtime minutes. To initiate the credit the customer service representative selects and or inputs corresponding information into a product type drop down menu and an MDN field . The customer service representative also provides the airtime amount of the credit in either a denomination field or a units field depending on the preferences of the corresponding carrier.

Referring to the customer service representative can review the transaction records and or the preliminary data records associated with the successful and failed transactions using one of a plurality of filtering methods. For example as shown in the interactive administrative display includes an interactive filter panel corresponding to the Search Transactions tab of the interactive menu which allows the user to query the transaction records and or preliminary data records by inputting information into a dealer code drop down menu a filter field a product type drop down menu and a plurality of record date range fields . shows the interactive administrator display having a sample interactive carrier specific filter panel in which the user can search for an SID which is a transaction related value relating to certain CDMA carrier system s . The sample interactive carrier specific filter panel corresponds to the Search SID tab of the interactive menu and allows the customer service to search for the SID by inputting corresponding information into an ESN field and or a MDN field .

Referring to the customer service representative may enter a search query by order number in order to view the transaction associated therewith and or export the transaction information to another application. In this regard shows an interactive export batch panel corresponding to the Export Batch tab of the interactive menu which allows the customer service number to input a sales order into a sales order field to export transaction information corresponding thereto. shows an interactive batch monitoring panel corresponding to the Batch Monitor tab of the interactive menu which allows the customer service representative to input a sales order into a search order field to search for information corresponding thereto.

Referring to the transaction information spreadsheet is shown and described in further detail. The transaction information spreadsheet is a representation of transaction information and as shown the transaction information spreadsheet is disposed under the Refresh button which is also shown in . The transaction information spreadsheet may as shown be so wide so that the customer service representative is to scroll left and right to view the transaction information contained therein. For example the transaction information spreadsheet may include a left section such as that shown in and a right section such as that shown in

The transaction record spreadsheet preferably has disposed therein rows of information each row being associated with a particular transaction. The columns of the transaction record spreadsheet preferably correspond to a specific type of transaction information associated therewith. For example referring to the transaction record spreadsheet may include an action column to indicate whether activation recharge or other action took place a transaction ID column a terminal column to indicate which one of the client systems were used for the action a user name column to indicate the identify of a customer service representative an order number column a dealer code column a product type column an ESN IMEI column a SIM number column a starter kit PIN column an NPA column a city column to indicate the city rate area and or market a status column and a step column to indicate the progress of a transaction. Continuing with the example and referring to the transaction record spreadsheet may include a notes column to indicate inputted notes by the master server of the customer service representative an MDN column an MSID column and or a MIN column a PIN Units Denomination column a transaction duration column a transaction started column for indicating the start time and date of the transaction and a transaction ended column for indicating the end time and date of the transaction.

Referring to the administrator interface modules may provide a client stat monitor to the administrator workstation for display to the customer service representative or other administrator. The client stat monitor includes a web stat monitor and an IVR stat monitor . The web stat monitor displays statistical web based information derived from the transaction information associated with transactions initiated by web clients such as the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system . The IVR stat monitor display statistical IVR based information derived from the transaction information associated with transactions initiated by IVR clients such as the telephone client system .

The control modules derive the statistical IVR based information and the statistical web based information from transaction received from the IVR modules and the web interface modules and then pass the statistical IVR based information and statistical web based information to the administrator interface modules . The statistical IVR based information and the statistical web based information are arranged by carrier e.g. the TDMA carrier system the CDMA carrier system the GSM carrier system etc. and by time period e.g. the previous one hour period the previous one day period etc. . The web stat monitor and the IVR stat monitor preferably display statistical web based information and statistical IVR based information respectively such as the average duration of a transaction the total number of attempted transactions the number of attempted transactions that were successful the number of attempted transactions that terminate or were incomplete the percent of total attempted transactions that were successful and the time of the last action. The client stat monitor preferably also includes a stat table and in this regard the customer service representative can select statistical web based information and or statistical IVR based information for display in a table format therein.

Referring to the administrator interface modules may also provide an action stat monitor to the administrator workstation for display to the customer service representative or other administrator. The action stat monitor includes a provisioning stat monitor a loading stat monitor and a recharge credit stat monitor . The provisioning stat monitor displays statistical provisioning related information derived from the transaction information associated with provisioning one of the prepaid wireless telephones the loading stat monitor displays statistical loading related information derived from the transaction information associated with loading initial promotional airtime minutes onto the account associated therewith and the recharge credit stat monitor displays statistical recharge and or credit related information derived from the transaction information associated with loading additional airtime minutes onto the account. The statistical information is preferably arranged by carrier and time period.

It is noted that the enablement method and the control system have been herein described with particular attention to the IVR modules and the IVR system as well as the administrator interface modules and the administrator workstation . However it shall be clear to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention may be implemented and or constructed in connection with the web interface modules the consumer web client system and the dealer web client system . By way of nonlimiting example the master server may host a web site having different areas wherein some of the areas are accessible by consumers and some of the areas are accessible by dealers.

It will also be understood that the embodiments of the present invention described herein are merely exemplary and that a person skilled in the art may make many variations and modifications without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. All such variations and modifications including those discussed above are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

