---

title: Systems and methods for capturing communication signals [32-bit or 128-bit addresses]
abstract: Systems and methods for capturing communication signals are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of: installing a first type of tapping devices to obtain 32-bit communication signals; installing a recording system that is coupled to the first type of tapping devices; receiving the 32-bit communication signals from the first type of tapping devices via the recording system; responsive to receiving the 32-bit communication signals, converting the 32-bit communication signals into an 128-bit communication format via the recording system; and recording the converted 128-bit communication signals via the recording system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07995612&OS=07995612&RS=07995612
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 07995612
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060331
---
Call centers typically record interactions between employees and between employees and customers to monitor quality of performance. Typically recording components used for such recording are specific to the types of interactions. For example a company that records time division multiplexing TDM audio has a TDM recorder. If that company also records IP audio the company also has an IP recorder that is separate and independent from the TDM recorder. In addition if that company would like to record agent desktop screen the company would need a screen capture recorder that is also separate and independent from the TDM and IP recorders. Each separate and independent recorder is operative to only receive and record a single specific type of interaction.

Typically a company has multiple servers that are the source of information to the recorder. The recorder uses the information to determine whether to record the corresponding types of interactions. The multiple servers include but are not limited to computer telephone integration CTI servers customer relationship management CRM servers e mail servers dialers and session initiation protocol SIP proxy servers for example. Typically these servers may be integrated to different independent recorders. Each recorder is limited to the information provided by its respective server. In addition analytical applications that evaluate the performance of a call center communicate with the recorders to access the various types of desirable recorded interactions. Hence accessing a deployment of hybrid recorders can be difficult and may need different applications and hardware devices.

Currently many companies use a 32 bit address scheme as part of their communication network which limits the address space to 4 294 967 296 possible unique addresses.

Systems and methods for capturing communication signals are provided. An exemplary method comprises the steps of installing a first type of tapping devices to obtain 32 bit communication signals installing a recording system that is coupled to the first type of tapping devices receiving the 32 bit communication signals from the first type of tapping devices via the recording system responsive to receiving the 32 bit communication signals converting the 32 bit communication signals into an 128 bit communication format via the recording system and recording the converted 128 bit communication signals via the recording system.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for capturing communication signals. In particular embodiments of such a system incorporate a recording system that includes multiple interfaces that facilitate receiving and recording of various types of communication signals. The recording system can be deployed at a centralized location e.g. within a company premises and or embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure.

A Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP system can be connected to the PSTN . The VoIP system receives and transmits communication signals via gateway router . If the gateway receives the communication signals from the PSTN the gateway converts the communication signals to digital communication signals. Additionally or alternatively the gateway can receive digital communication signals from an Internet Protocol Wide Area Network IP WAN . In either or both situations the gateway sends the digital communication signals to a network switch which distributes the signal to VoIP phones .

The recording system can further receive various types of external contact center events from the multiple servers . The recording system enables continued use of the multiple servers by receiving the various types of external contact center events and determine whether to record communication signals based on the received events. Additionally or alternatively the recording system can receive and store data from media servers with recorder capabilities media server recorder . The recording system includes interfaces that communicate with the media servers recorder to manage the data stored in the media server recorder such as archive data management and search and mine. In other words the recording system can integrate with the media server recorder as a cluster of subsystems. Additionally or alternatively the recording system receives and stores data stored in the media server recorder.

An event interface application of the recording controller receives the external contact center events. An administration application of the recording controller processes the external contact center events . After the processing is completed the recorder controller determines whether to record corresponding communication signals associated with the external contact center events . If the recorder controller determines to record the corresponding communication signals the recorder controller transmits start stop commands and contact attributes to a capture engine or an archive . The recorder controller can selectively record one to one hundred percent of the communication signals. The recorder controller can use a business rule engines not shown to further selectively record audio video that prioritizes events above random recordings. The recorder controller can record on demand allocate optimum recording of a media channel and monitor post call activities.

Retrieve record and administration applications of the capture engine receive and process the commands and attributes from the recorder controller . Specifically the retrieve application facilitates retrieving stored communication signals e.g. meta data from the capture engine and transmitting the meta data to an application enterprise datastore . Call center applications can access the information in the datastore for analysis and optimization of the performance of the call center.

The record application instructs the capture engine to start stop recording communication signals that the capture engine receives from various types of communication interfaces. The communication interfaces facilitate receiving and storing TDM audio IP audio screen data IM chat not shown e mail not shown video conference not shown and or other multimedia data. The communication interfaces also facilitates tapping into the switches of the network e.g. extension taps TDM trunk taps IP trunk taps and IP extension taps and communicating with the soft phones and media server to receive communication signals. The capture engine can transmit audio video and meta data to a recorder local storage . The capture engine is a single platform with extendable interface types. The capture engine has as many as concurrent channels and is self sufficient in a closed box with fault tolerance feature minimum connection lost and passive tap sense driven recording.

Additionally or alternatively the recorder controller can instruct the capture engine to transmit stored communication signals to the archive and instruct the archive to store the communication signals to a local disk tape and DVD . The recorder controller can further instruct the archive to retrieve stored communication signals from the local disk tape and DVD . The archive then transmits the stored communication signals to the capture engine which transmits the signals to a desirable location. The archive has a fault tolerant storage of contact data and meta data. The archive can manage multiple local storage media or integrate to a third party server. The archive further supports the retrieval of contact data for playback applications.

The local storage interface receives and stores audio video data in a storage medium. The media channel framework further outputs meta data to call center applications for optimization of call centers or other applications that utilize the stored communication signals. The capture engine further includes a workflow engine that processes consolidation compression archive disk management and other processes of stored data in the capture engine . The capture engine is capable of content segment recording which can support content level security at an application layer.

A company premises may have a hybrid environment that includes both communication devices operative to communicate with signals with 32 bit or 128 bit packet header such as 32 bit and 128 bit soft phones gateways routers recording system and switches for example. In particular the recording system includes the TDM terminated interface IP terminated interface and VoIP filtering that can receive and record the communication signals.

In block the recording system receives external contact center events associated with corresponding types of communication signals in the company premises. In block the recording system determines whether to record the various types of communication signals based on the events. In block responsive to determining that the communication signals are to be recorded the recording system determines the types of communication signals associated with the received communication signals. In block the recording system determines the communication interfaces for receiving and storing the received communication signals based on the determined types of communication signals. In block the recording system allocates resources to record the received communication signals. In block the recording system records the received communication signals via the determined communication interfaces.

In some embodiments various applications are able to access and analyze all the various types of communication signals in the company premises in a recording system with one repository. This reduces steps that would otherwise be present if the various types of communication signals are recorded in multiple recording systems. For example if two types of communication signals are recorded in the recording system instead of two servers then applications that analyze the two types of the communication signals can communicate access and search in one recording system instead of two recording systems.

Theoretically the recording system can have various interfaces to receive and record Ntypes of communication signals in case the company installs corresponding Ntypes of tapping devices. In this regard the recording system can obtain Ntypes of tap points to receive and record the Ntypes of communication signals. As mentioned above other types of communication signals with which some embodiments of a recording system can operate include for example screen capture instant message and business data from the agent desktops through the corporate LAN and service observation data from the switch ACD . Other types of communication signals further include IP data between the gateway and the call manager switch by way of IP trunk taps and IP data from the switch by way of IP extension taps. In addition other types of communication signals include IP data from IP phones by way of IP monitoring media data from the media application server and video conference data from the IP phone as shown in . Alternatively or additionally some embodiments of a recording system can record communication signals with a 32 bit address 64 bit or 128 bit address.

Theoretically the company can transition to N generally more advanced types of communication signals using the recording system without using a separate and independent system. That is the company does not need to install a separate recording system to record the Ntypes of communication signals. For example this is particularly useful when the company transitions from an 32 bit to an 128 bit address environment. The recording system may already have the interfaces that support receiving and recording the 32 bit and 128 bit address communication signals.

Another potential advantage can occur when a company installs an advance communication platform. For example the company upgrades from a TDM communication platform to an IP communication platform or to any other advanced multimedia platform . The single recording device can receive and record various types of communication signals in either the TDM or IP communication platforms or both. The recording system can be an integrated recording platform and can include 10 10 000 concurrent recording channels that support receiving and recording the various types of communication signals.

In block responsive to determining that the communication signals are to be recorded the recording system determines whether the communication signals are either 32 bit or 128 bit communication format. In block the recording system determines the communication interfaces for receiving and storing the received communication signals based on the determined types of communication signals. In blocks and the recording system allocates resources to record the received communication signals and converts the 32 bit communication format to the 128 bit communication format or vice versa. In block the recording system records the received communication signals via the determined communication interfaces.

An example of a conversion of 32 bit and 128 bit communication signals is converting the 32 bit source and destination addresses into 128 bit source and destination addresses. illustrates an embodiment of look up tables that a recording system can use to identify IP communication devices. Look up tables include lists of source and destination addresses of the 32 bit and 128 bit communication device respectively. For example the recording system may need to convert 128 bit source and destination addresses into 128 bit source and destination addresses. Once the single recording device determines that the communication signals are in 32 bit format the single recording device uses the look up tables to convert the 32 bit addresses to 128bit addresses.

Additionally or alternative the single recording device can include a translation application not shown that converts 32 bit address to 128 bit communication format or vice versa. For example once the single recording device determines that the communication signals are in 32 bit format the single recording device uses the translation application to convert the 32 bit addresses to 128bit addresses such as shown in . The translation application can insert the 32 bit address in a 32 bit section of a 128 bit address . A 96 bit section of the 128 bit address is unused and can be a string of zeros for example.

In some embodiments the recording system has the capability to transition a company from using an existing communication system to an advanced communication system. For example if a company wants to transition from using a traditional TDM telephony technology to a VoIP technology then the recording system can continue to record telephony communication signals and begin to record VoIP communication signals. The company can record in a hybrid environment of the telephony and VoIP technologies using the recording system. Alternatively the company can completely transition to record VoIP technology. In addition the recording system can record multimedia communication signals if the company later decides to use multimedia technology. The company does not need to purchase another system to handle the various types of communication signals. Applications that utilize the recorded communication signals to for example analyze the optimization of the contact center can access the recorded communication signals from the recording system and continue to function in the same manner. Also retrieval ability of the recordings from both previous method of recording and new method or recording is seamless. This is added value to the company that is not provided in the industry at this time.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

