---

title: Two-piece armored cab system
abstract: A system for a two-piece armored cab includes an upper cab portion, a lower cab portion, and a vehicle chassis system. The upper cab portion and the lower cab portion are armored to provide protection to occupants of the cab system. The upper cab portion removably mates to the lower cab portion at a mating line that comprises a lower edge of the upper cab portion and an upper edge of the lower cab portion. The lower cab portion is mounted to the vehicle chassis system such that the vehicle chassis system is operable when the upper cab portion is removed from the lower cab portion as well as when the upper cab portion is mated to the lower cab portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07393045&OS=07393045&RS=07393045
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07393045
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060117
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

Conventional armored vehicles e.g. vehicles used for military or security related applications typically have protective armor surrounding the cab i.e. cabin passenger compartment etc. region of the vehicle. Such protective armor is intended to provide occupants of the cab e.g. driver passenger etc. a desired degree of protection from hostile attack via explosive devices mortar rounds small arms fire grenades and the like. The protective armor surrounding the cab on a conventional vehicle is typically implemented to provide a single piece armored vehicle cab where the armor is implemented as multiple pieces of armor that are fastened to a unitary infrastructure.

Protective armor usually adds a significant weight to the armored vehicle. Protective armor can also add to the overall height of the vehicle. Such additions to the weight and height of the vehicle can make the vehicle difficult to transport to a desired use location. In particular armored vehicles are often transported by airplane to a location of immediate need as other modes of transportation do not provide the speed of deployment desired. One particular problem sometimes encountered e.g. with some cab over and cab forward vehicles is that the concentrated weight of an armored vehicle at a wheel or axle location may exceed the cargo carrying capacity of the floor structure of the airplane.

Conventional approaches to the air shipment of armored vehicles typically are implemented by shipment of the vehicle in an unarmored or partially armored condition and remote field installation or reinstallation of the complete armor package that includes many individual sections of armor. The field installation of the armor package can be excessively time consuming and extremely onerous to the individuals who perform the installation as facilities to aid the installation are often very limited and the number of armor components that are to be installed is often numerous. The user of conventional armored cab vehicles typically has two choices i attempt to transport a vehicle that has a single piece unitary armored cab that can exceed weight and heights limits and ii transport the unarmored or partially armored vehicle and install numerous armor components on the vehicle when the vehicle has reached the desired destination.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved armored cab system. Such an improved system may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

According to the present invention a system for a two piece armored cab is provided. The cab system comprises an upper cab portion a lower cab portion and a vehicle chassis system. The upper cab portion and the lower cab portion are armored to provide protection to occupants of the cab system. The upper cab portion removably mates to the lower cab portion at a mating line that comprises a lower edge of the upper cab portion and an upper edge of the lower cab portion. The lower cab portion is mounted to the vehicle chassis system such that the vehicle chassis system is operable when the upper cab portion is removed from the lower cab portion as well as when the upper cab portion is mated to the lower cab portion.

The cab system further comprises at least one armored cab door and the cab door comprises an upper door section and a lower door section that are hinged at the mating line such that in one mode of operation the upper door portion folds down and alternatively in another mode of operation the lower door portion fold ups when the upper and lower cab portions are separated.

The cab system further comprises at least one armored cab door and the cab door comprises an upper door section that remains with the upper cab portion and a lower door section that remains with the lower cab portion when the upper and lower cab portions are separated.

The cab system further comprises at least one armored cab door and the cab door is implemented within the structure of the upper cab portion such that when the upper cab portion is separated from the lower cab portion the entire cab door is contained within the upper cab portion.

The cab system wherein the lower edge of the upper cab portion and the upper edge of the lower cab portion are implemented as complementary flanges and the flanges are mechanically coupled via fasteners.

A vehicle where the cab system is implemented has an overall vertical vehicle clearance when the upper cab portion is removed CU and the upper cab portion has a height HU that is selected such that the overall vertical vehicle clearance when the upper cab portion is removed CU is less than vertical vehicle clearance when is upper cab portion is mated to the lower cab portion and the overall vertical vehicle clearance when the upper cab portion is removed CU is less than the maximum vertical stowage clearance of a C 130 transport aircraft.

The cab system where the upper cab portion height HU is selected such that weight distribution and handling characteristics of the vehicle where the cab system is implemented are optimized when the upper cab portion is stowed on a bed of the vehicle.

The cab system where the upper cab portion is positioned on a bed of a vehicle where the cab system is implemented to provide weight distribution such that the weight concentration on front and rear axles of the vehicle is less than the maximum weight concentration value of a C 130 transport aircraft.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved armored cab system. The present invention is generally implemented as a two piece armored cab.

The present invention is generally implemented in connection with armored vehicles e.g. vehicles used for military or security related applications to provide protective armor surrounding the cab i.e. cabin passenger compartment etc. region of the vehicle. Such protective armor may provide occupants of the cab e.g. driver passenger etc. a desired degree of protection from hostile attack via explosive devices mortar rounds small arms fire grenades and the like. The present invention may be especially advantageously implemented in connection with armored versions of cab over and cab forward vehicles. However the present invention may be implemented in connection with any appropriate armored vehicle.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a vehicle comprising an example of a two piece armored vehicle cab system i.e. apparatus assembly structure etc. of the present invention is shown. The vehicle further comprises a vehicle chassis system . Relative directions e.g. vertical longitudinal etc. are generally as shown. Lateral i.e. transverse left right etc. directions are generally perpendicular to the vertical longitudinal plane.

The cab i.e. cabin passenger compartment etc. generally comprises an upper portion i.e. section part subassembly etc. a lower portion and at least one door . The upper subassembly generally comprises a windshield . The upper section and the lower section are generally armored to comprise a two piece armored vehicle cab. The upper section and the lower section generally mate i.e. interface install connect assemble couple combine fit together etc. at a lower edge of the upper section and an upper edge of the lower section to form a mating line i.e. separation line break line parting line etc. . As described in more detail below in connection with in one example the lower edge of the upper section and the upper edge of the lower section may be implemented as complementary mating flanges.

When the upper cab subassembly is installed on the lower cab subassembly the vehicle cab may provide armored protection to occupants of the cab system that is substantially i.e. essentially about etc. the same as protection provided by a conventional single piece armored vehicle cab where the armor is typically implemented as multiple pieces of armor that are fastened to a unitary infrastructure. The vehicle generally has an overall vertical vehicle clearance CI when the upper cab subassembly is installed on the lower cab subassembly .

In one example the door may comprise an upper door part and a lower door part . The upper door section and the lower door section may be selectively flexibly interconnected via a hinge . The hinge is generally horizontally disposed at or near the mating line . In one example the door portion may fold down and alternatively in another example the door portion may fold up such that each door portion and is integral with the respective upper vehicle cab section and lower vehicle cab section . A latch mechanism not shown may hold the door section and the lower door section substantially rigidly together when the upper vehicle cab section and lower vehicle cab section are coupled together.

In another example as illustrated in the hinge may be deleted and door may comprise a section that remains with the upper cab section and a section that remains with the lower cab portion when the cab portions and are separated. The separation of the doors sections and is generally implemented at or near the parting line . In yet another example not shown the door may be a single piece assembly that is removed from the cab when the cab portions and are separated. In yet a further example as illustrated in the door may be a single piece assembly that remains with the cab portion or alternatively not shown the cab portion when the cab portions and are separated.

The vehicle chassis system generally comprises a powertrain a bed axles e.g. front axle and at least one rear axle and wheels . The powertrain axles and wheels are generally interconnected to provide motivation to move the vehicle . The bed generally provides an area for hauling cargo freight and the like. The vehicle may be implemented having a cab over configuration i.e. the cab assembly may be mounted substantially over the front axle of the vehicle . The bed may be implemented as a so called flat bed having a height HB above the surface upon which the vehicle rests.

The vehicle chassis system is generally operable when the upper cab portion is removed as well as when the upper cab portion is installed to the lower cab portion . As such the vehicle may be moved driven and used in an open cab configuration when the upper cab section is separated from the lower cab section as illustrated for example in .

Referring to a diagram illustrating separation of the upper cab section from the lower cab section using a crane is shown. The lower door section may be folded up and retained against the upper door section . The cab apparatus of the present invention having a single separation at the break line may advantageously provide for rapid simple and convenient removal and installation of the upper cab part vis a vis the lower cab part . While the cab system of the present invention is illustrated using the crane to aid the assembly and disassembly processes of the upper cab section from the lower cab section any appropriate apparatus and method such as a hoist block and tackle manual labor and the like may be implemented to aid the disassembly and assembly processes to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

Referring to a diagram illustrating placement of the upper cab section on the bed is shown. The upper cab section may be advantageously disposed i.e. stowed placed positioned etc. on and fastened i.e. fixed bolted clamped tied strapped chained etc. to the bed such that the truck may be more conveniently efficiently and effectively transported when compared to a vehicle having a conventional one piece armored cab.

In particular the two piece armored cab system of the present invention may provide an improved weight distribution for transportation of the vehicle as the weight of the upper cab portion is distributed via the bed rather than concentrated over the front axle . The two piece armored cab system of the present invention may provide an improved weight distribution for transportation of the vehicle as the position of upper cab portion on the bed may be selected such that the weight distribution on the front and rear axles is less than the maximum weight concentration value i.e. less than the maximum pounds per square inch of typical vehicles not shown e.g. C 130 aircraft and the like that are used to transport the vehicle .

Further when the upper cab section is removed from the lower cab section the overall height of the vehicle may be reduced when compared to a vehicle having a conventional one piece armored cab. In particular the upper cab section may have a height HU and the lower cab section including the powertrain may have a height that extends above the bed HL where the upper cab section height HU is less than the lower cab section height HL. When the upper cab section is removed from the lower cab section the overall height of the vehicle may have a value CU.

Thus when the upper cab section is stowed on the bed the height of the lower cab section including the powertrain HL plus the height HB of the flat bed generally determines the overall height clearance i.e. the vertical distance from the surface on which the vehicle rests to the maximum vertical distance of the vehicle CU of the vehicle . The value CU the vehicle height when the upper cab section is stowed on the bed is generally less than the value CI the vehicle height when the upper cab section is installed on the lower cab section . Generally CU HL HB HU

In one example the upper cab height HU may be selected such that the overall vertical vehicle clearance CU when the upper cab section is removed is less than the maximum vertical stowage clearance provided by typical vehicles not shown e.g. C 130 aircraft that are used to transport the vehicle . As such the system may provide more rapid deployment of the armored vehicle than provided by conventional unitary armor systems which typically have a height approximately CI. A conventional unitary armored vehicle cab may exceed the maximum vertical clearance that is provided by typical vehicles used for transport which may cause the transportation of the conventional unitary armored vehicle by slower less timely methods such as ship or rail.

The upper cab height HU may also determine the overall weight of the upper cab portion . That is the amount of material that comprises the upper cab portion is directly dependent upon the height HU. As such in one example the weight of the upper cab portion may be selected i.e. calculated determined estimated etc. such that weight distribution and handling characteristics of the vehicle when transported can be optimized when the upper cab portion is stowed on the bed .

When the armor package of the vehicle is to be configured to provide protection to occupants of the cab i.e. when the cab sections and are fastened together as the cab comprises a two piece apparatus the upper cab portion is generally quickly and easily assembled to the lower cab portion . In contrast the time and effort to configure a conventional unitary armored vehicle cab armor having a multi piece armor package can be extensive.

Referring to a diagram illustrating a vehicle comprising an example of a two piece armored vehicle cab system of the present invention is shown. The vehicle may be implemented as another example of an armored vehicle including the present invention. The vehicle cab is generally implemented similarly to the vehicle cab . The vehicle cab system generally comprises an upper cab section and a lower cab section . The vehicle further comprises a vehicle chassis system . The vehicle chassis system may include a stake bed .

An unhinged flanged version of the door of the vehicle cab may be implemented within the structure of the cab system . As such when the upper cab section is separated from the lower cab section the upper door section may be integral with the upper cab section and the lower door section may be integral with the lower cab section .

Referring to a diagram illustrating a side view of a two piece armored vehicle cab system of the present invention is shown. The vehicle cab is generally implemented similarly to the vehicle cab . An unhinged version of the door of the vehicle cab may be implemented within the structure of the upper cab section . As such when the upper cab section is separated from the lower cab section the entire door may be contained within the upper cab section .

Referring to a diagram illustrating detail of a broken out section of the interface between the upper and lower cab portions and respectively of an example of the two piece armored vehicle cab of the present invention is shown. In one example the bottom edge of the upper cab section and the top edge of the lower cab section may be implemented as complementary i.e. matching mating etc. flanges. The flanges and may be mechanically coupled via fasteners e.g. bolts rivets studs nuts etc. . However the interface may be implemented via any appropriate edges and and fastening apparatus or method e.g. welding to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

Referring to diagram illustrating a sectional view taken at line of of the interface between the upper and lower cab portions and respectively is shown.

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved two piece armored vehicle cab. Such an improved vehicle cab may overcome one or more deficiencies of conventional approaches.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

