---

title: Apparatus and methods for reducing power consumption and/or radio frequency interference in a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments for reducing power consumption and radio frequency (RF) interference in a mobile computing device are described. In one or more embodiments, the mobile computing device may support cellular voice communication, wireless wide area network (WWAN) data communication, and wireless local area network (WLAN) data communication. The mobile computing device may be arranged to disable WWAN data communication whenever an available WLAN is detected to reduce RF interference and/or power consumption. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09265003&OS=09265003&RS=09265003
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09265003
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061113
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In some cases a smart phone may be implemented as an Unlicensed Mobile Access UMA or dual mode mobile computing device to support both cellular communication over a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular network as well as Wireless Fidelity WiFi communication over an 802.11 wireless network. In addition a CDMA mobile computing device may support Evolution Data Optimized EV DO data communication over a wireless radio channel.

Typically multiple modes of a mobile computing device are supported at the same time which often may result in radio frequency RF interference and excessive power consumption especially when operating from a battery. Accordingly there exists the need for an improved apparatus and methods for reducing power consumption and RF interference in a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to reducing power consumption and RF interference in a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to support cellular voice communication wireless wide area network WWAN data communication and wireless local area network WLAN data communication. For example the mobile computing device may be implemented as UMA or dual mode wireless device supporting CDMA voice communication EV DO data communication and WiFi data communication. In various implementations the mobile computing device may be arranged to disable WWAN data communication whenever an available WLAN is detected to reduce power consumption and RF interference.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide WWAN data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering WWAN data communications services may include EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems CDMA 1xRTT systems GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing web browser applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In some implementations the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to support cellular voice communication WWAN data communication and WLAN data communication. For example the mobile computing device may be implemented as UMA or dual mode wireless device supporting CDMA voice communication EV DO data communication and WiFi data communication. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The transceiver module may comprise one or more cellular transceivers or components arranged to support communication over a cellular voice channel for a system such as a CDMA GSM and or UMTS cellular system. In some implementations the cellular transceiver or components may be coupled to a corresponding cellular antenna 

The transceiver module also may comprise one or more WWAN transceivers or components b arranged to support data communication over a WWAN data channel in accordance with one or more WWAN protocols such as EV DO protocols EVDV protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols GSM GPRS protocols EDGE protocols HSDPA protocols and so forth. In some implementations the WWAN transceiver or components may be coupled to a corresponding WWAN antenna 

The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WLAN data channel in accordance with one or more WLAN protocols such as IEEE 802.11a b g n protocols IEEE 802.16 protocols IEEE 802.20 protocols PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a channel control module . In various embodiments the channel control module may be arranged to manually and or automatically detect an available WLAN. The channel control module may be arranged to periodically or continuously check for the presence of an available WLAN. In some cases the channel control module may be arranged to automatically connect to an available and or preferred WLAN such as a home or office WLAN of the user. In other cases the channel control module may require the user to authorize the connection to an available WLAN. If the WLAN is a secure network the channel control module may be arranged to prompt the user for and or supply the appropriate key or password needed to establish a connection.

The channel control module may be arranged to handoff or switch communications among the cellular voice channel the WWAN communication channel and the WLAN data channel . For example when the mobile computing device enters a WLAN the channel control module may be arranged to handoff or switch a voice call on the cellular voice channel to a Voice over IP VOIP call on the WLAN data channel . The channel control module also may be arranged to handoff or switch a data call on the WWAN data channel to the WLAN data channel automatically e.g. by default or when WLAN communication is determined to be faster and or more cost effective.

The channel control module may be arranged to monitor WLAN communication and to handoff or switch communication from the WLAN data channel to the cellular voice channel and or the WWAN data channel if WLAN communication is lost and or if the WLAN signal strength falls below a certain threshold level. For example the channel control module may be arranged to handoff or switch WiFi data communication to EV DO data communication if the WiFi connection is lost deteriorates and or falls below a certain signal strength.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to disable WWAN data communication whenever an available WLAN is detected. For example EV DO data communication may be disabled whenever WiFi data communication is possible over an available WLAN. Disabling WWAN data communication may reduce RF interference between the WWAN channel and the WLAN data channel resulting in improved data communication. Disabling WWAN data communication also may significantly reduce power consumption of the mobile computing device by conserving the power supply e.g. battery . In various embodiments for example disabling WWAN communication may comprise turning off power to the WWAN transceiver or components whenever an available WLAN is detected.

Disabling WWAN communication may comprise suspending the monitoring for incoming data calls on the WWAN data channel when the mobile computing device is in an idle state. For example the mobile computing device may enter an idle state when no voice or data calls are in progress and or after a certain period of no voice or data activity. Upon making or detecting a voice or data call the mobile computing device may exit the idle state.

In the idle state the mobile computing device may maintain and actively listen to the cellular voice channel for incoming voice calls. In the idle state the mobile computing device also may maintain and actively listen to the WWAN data channel for incoming data calls or IP packets. By suspending the monitoring for incoming data calls on the WWAN data channel when the mobile computing device is in an idle state the amount of power required for idle state operation is decreased.

Disabling WWAN communication may comprise modifying a sleep cycle with respect to the WWAN data channel to prevent the mobile computing device from waking up. For example in the cellular voice channel e.g. CDMA voice channel and the WWAN data channel e.g. EV DO data channel time may be divided into slots e.g. 80 millisecond time slots within a slot cycle ranging from 16 time slots e.g. 1.28 seconds to 2048 time slots e.g. 163.84 seconds . To conserve more power in the idle state especially when operating from a battery the mobile computing device may implement a sleep cycle with respect to the cellular voice channel and the WWAN data channel . In the sleep cycle the mobile computing device may be arranged to wake up and listen for incoming voice calls and data calls only during assigned time slots instead of continuously monitoring all time slots in all channels. When the mobile computing device is not monitoring the assigned slots sleeping power to the cellular transceiver or components and to the WWAN transceiver or components may be turned off to conserve power.

The mobile computing device may include slot cycle index SCI settings to control the sleep cycle and how often the mobile computing device wakes up and listens to the cellular voice channel for voice calls and to the WWAN data channel for data calls. For example a mobile computing device with an SCI set to 0 may wake up every 1.28 seconds an SCI set to 1 every 2.56 seconds an SCI set to 2 every 5.12 seconds and so on. By default the SCI may be set to 2 for the cellular voice channel and for the WWAN data channel requiring the mobile computing device to wake up and check for voice calls and data calls and voice calls every 5.12 seconds. The SCI settings may be configured so that the mobile computing device wakes up and checks for voice calls and data calls at the same time or interleaves checking for voice calls and data calls.

In some implementations the SCI setting for data calls may be different e.g. shorter than for voice calls. While a larger SCI setting conserves more power the resulting overhead or delay to receive and respond to incoming calls may adversely impact the performance of time critical applications. For example to support applications that require very fast real time communications such as interactive gaming applications and push to talk messaging applications the mobile computing device may require an SCI set to 0 e.g. 1.28 seconds or even a reduced or negative slot cycle mode.

While implementing a sleep cycle does conserve power the periodic monitoring of the WWAN data channel is still a significant drain on the power supply e.g. battery especially in a reduced or negative slot cycle mode. Accordingly significant power savings may be achieved by disabling WWAN communication when an available WLAN is detected and preventing the mobile computing device from periodically waking up to monitor the WWAN data channel .

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to monitor for incoming data calls on the WWAN data channel only if an available WLAN is not detected. For example while data communication over the WLAN channel is being carried out the mobile computing device will not monitor the WWAN data channel for incoming data calls. Additionally when in an idle state the mobile computing device will not monitor the WWAN data channel for incoming calls either continuously or periodically according to a sleep cycle whenever an available WLAN is detected and data communication over the WLAN data channel is possible.

If WLAN communication is unavailable lost and or deteriorates below a certain threshold level e.g. signal strength the mobile computing device may be arranged to enable and or to reestablish WWAN data communication. For example the channel control module monitor WLAN communication and establish or bring up the WLAN data channel if WLAN communication is lost and or if the WLAN signal strength falls below a certain threshold level. The channel control module may handoff or switch data communication from the WLAN data channel to the WWAN data channel . For example EV DO data communication may be established and WiFi data communication may be switched to EV DO data communication if the WiFi connection is lost deteriorates and or falls below a certain signal strength.

The logic flow may comprise detecting an available WLAN block . In various embodiments the available WLAN may be manually and or automatically detected by the mobile computing device for example. The mobile computing device may be arranged to periodically or continuously check for the presence of an available WLAN. In some cases the mobile computing device may be arranged to automatically connect to an available and or preferred WLAN such as a home or office WLAN associated with a user. In other cases the user may be required to authorize a connection to an available WLAN. If the WLAN is a secure network the mobile computing device may prompt the user for and or supply the appropriate key or password needed to establish a connection to the WLAN.

The logic flow may comprise disabling WWAN data communication whenever an available WLAN is detected block . In various embodiments WWAN data communication e.g. EV DO data communication may be disabled by the mobile computing device whenever WLAN data communication e.g. WiFi data communication is possible over an available WLAN. Disabling WWAN data communication may reduce RF interference and or power consumption.

In various implementations disabling WWAN communication may comprise turning off power to the WWAN transceiver or components of the mobile computing device whenever an available WLAN is detected. Disabling WWAN communication also may comprise suspending the monitoring for incoming WWAN data calls when WLAN data communication is being carried out and or when the mobile computing device is in an idle state. Disabling WWAN communication may comprise modifying a sleep cycle of the mobile computing device with respect to WWAN data calls to prevent the mobile computing device from periodically waking up when in an idle state.

Upon detecting an available WLAN the mobile computing device may be arranged to handoff or switch communications from the cellular voice channel and or the WWAN communication channel to the WLAN data channel . For example when an available WLAN is detected the mobile computing device may be arranged to handoff or switch a voice call on the cellular voice channel to a Voice over IP VOIP call on the WLAN data channel . The channel control module also may be arranged to handoff or switch a data call on the WWAN data channel to the WLAN data channel .

The logic flow may comprise monitoring WLAN data communication capability block . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to continuously or periodically monitor WLAN communication capability to determine whether WLAN data communication is possible and or is being carried out above a certain threshold level e.g. signal strength .

The logic flow may comprise enabling WWAN communication block . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may enable and or reestablish WWAN data communication if WLAN communication is unavailable lost and or deteriorates below a certain threshold level e.g. signal strength . For example the mobile computing device may be arranged to monitor WiFi communication and establish or reestablish EV DO data communication if WiFi communication is lost and or if the signal strength falls below a certain threshold level. The mobile computing device may be arranged to handoff or switch communication from WLAN data communication to WWAN data communication.

In various implementations the mobile computing device may be arranged to monitor for incoming WWAN data calls whenever and or only if an available WLAN is not detected. For example while data communication over the WLAN channel is being carried out the mobile computing device will not monitor for incoming WWAN data calls. Additionally whenever an available WLAN is detected and WLAN data communication is possible the mobile computing device will not monitor for incoming WWAN calls either continuously or periodically according to a sleep cycle when in an idle state.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

