---

title: Mobile satellite communications
abstract: Provided is a mobile satellite transceiver system for communicating with a Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite and a communications satellite. In on implementation, the mobile satellite transceiver system includes a GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite, a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite, and an operating system. In some implementations, the operating system of the mobile satellite transceiver system is configured to send and receive text messages to/from the communications satellite via the satellite modem. In some implementations the mobile satellite transceiver system also includes a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) interrogator for communicating with RFID tags.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07592953&OS=07592953&RS=07592953
owner: Comtech Mobile Datacom Corporation
number: 07592953
owner_city: Germantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061229
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in their entirety provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 755 405 filed Dec. 30 2005.

The present invention relates generally to satellite transceiver systems and specifically to mobile satellite transceiver systems.

Devices that receive signals from Global Positioning System GPS satellites are generally available to members of the public. Though useful for telling the individual holding the unit where on Earth the individual is these GPS receivers do not typically transmit the location of the individual. Thus the coordinates are useful to the individual but not to someone that wants to find the individual.

Systems used by the armed forces for transporting goods supplies and materials logistic systems may have access to radio transmitters to report the location of vehicles and or units to headquarters. When manually coupled with a GPS receiver an individual in a unit can inform headquarters of his or her position via verbally relaying the coordinates via radio.

Likewise corporations may have similar systems in place to track cargo transports e.g. reporting location information to a corporate operations center or they may utilize point of reception reporting i.e. updating the location of a good or supply when the item is processed by an intermediate facility.

An obstacle to efficient utilization of these technologies is the size of the components of the communication system and the awkwardness of manual combination of the components by an operator. These technologies lack a unified arrangement that maximizes the efficiency of the technology while simultaneously minimizing the footprint of the system.

Though GPS receivers and transmitters are useful for determining and reporting the location of a vehicle they are not generally useful for further communications e.g. vehicle status operator status or if any of the cargo has been delivered lost or damaged.

In one implementation there is a method for communicating between a transport unit and an Earth station via a communications satellite. The method includes providing the mobile satellite transceiver system the transceiver attached to the transport unit creating a communications transmission packet and sending the communications transmission packet from the satellite modem of transceiver system to the Earth station. In some versions of the method the communications transmission packet includes the location of the transceiver or transceiver system based on received GPS coordinates. In some versions the communications transmission packet additionally or alternatively includes a text message. Where an RFID interrogator is present e.g. coupled to the transceiver system or the transceiver the communications transmission packet includes RFID data e.g. the presence of a particular RFID tag. Some implementations of the method further include receiving any of the above communications packets via the satellite modem of the transceiver or transceiver system.

In some implementations there is a mobile satellite transceiver system for communicating with a Global Positioning System GPS satellite and a communications satellite. The mobile satellite transceiver system includes a GPS receiver configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications to and from the communications satellite and an operating system for processing communications transmitted to and received from the communications satellite. In some implementations the operating system of the mobile satellite transceiver system is configured to send and receive text messages to from the communications satellite via the satellite modem. In some implementations the mobile satellite transceiver system also includes a Radio Frequency Identification RFID interrogator for communicating with RFID tags. In some versions the GPS receiver of the mobile satellite system is a Ground Based GPS Receiver Application Module GB GRAM with a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM . Typically the mobile satellite transceiver system is attached to a vehicle e.g. a truck or transport vehicle often via screws or a magnetic mounting bracket.

There is also a method for communicating between a transport unit and an Earth station via a communications satellite. The method involves providing a mobile satellite transceiver system that includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver configured to receive communications from a GPS satellite a satellite modem configured to transmit and receive communications to and from the communications satellite and an operating system for processing communications transmitted to and received from the communications satellite. In these embodiments the mobile satellite transceiver system is attached to the transport unit. The method further involves creating a communications transmission packet by the operating system of the mobile satellite transceiver. Then the packet is sent using the satellite modem of the mobile satellite transceiver system to the Earth station via the communications satellite. In some implementations the mobile satellite transceiver system also includes a Radio Frequency Identification RFID interrogator.

There is also a mobile satellite transceiver system for communicating with a Global Positioning System GPS satellite and a communications satellite that includes a first and second logic board. The first logic board typically includes a commercial grade GPS receiver module configured to receive communications from the GPS satellite and a satellite modem module configured to transmit and receive communications from the communications satellite. The second logic board typically includes a Ground Based GPS Receiver Application Module GB GRAM with Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM an RFID interrogator module and an operating system. The GB GRAM module provides military grade GPS accuracy beyond that achievable with the commercial grade GPS on the first logic board. Typically the first logic board and the second logic board are in signal communication and the operating system coordinates a signal communication between a first module of the first logic board and a second module of the second logic board. In some implementations the RFID interrogator is not present and only the GB GRAM SAASM module is present. In other implementations there no GB GRAM SAASM module present and there is only a RFID interrogator. In some implementations neither the GB GRAM SAASM module nor the RFID interrogator is present and only GPS receiver is the commercial grade receiver on the first board. Multiple possible configurations are beneficial in that a customer purchasing the mobile satellite transceiver system can customize the mobile satellite transceiver system to fit their needs.

There is also a mobile satellite transceiver means for communicating with a Global Positioning System GPS satellite and a communications satellite. The mobile satellite transceiver means includes a GPS receiver means for receiving communications from the GPS satellite a satellite modem means for transmitting and receiving communications to and from the communications satellite and an operating system means for processing communications transmitted to and received from the communications satellite.

Any of the implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system are operable using L Band communications channels such as MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS OPTUS or combinations of these thereby providing communications beyond line of sight. Communications typically include the location of the mobile satellite transceiver system based on received Global Positioning System GPS coordinates text messages RFID data when an RFID interrogator is provided or any combination of these. Typically transmissions and received signals are encrypted using Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms or a combination of these. Additionally many implementations also provide a 512 kilobyte memory buffer for transmissions to be sent and or received. Typically antennas for the mobile satellite transceiver system reside within the housing of the system e.g. no external antenna is necessary.

The mobile satellite transceiver system described herein is typically incorporated into a messaging system. The mobile satellite transceiver system is usually attached to a vehicle includes a housing typically containing components such as a GPS receiver a satellite modem transceiver and an RFID interrogator. The mobile satellite transceiver system incorporates a satellite modems to communicate with communications satellites in Earth s orbit.

Implementations of the messaging system that incorporate the mobile satellite transceiver system provide near real time communication services via satellite between a vehicle utilizing the mobile satellite transceiver system and a ground unit. Typically the ground unit is an Earth station or headquarters though any ground sea and or air based unit may be communicated with. Advantageously the near real time communications include but are not limited to position reporting vehicle status operator status cargo status and or text messaging. Further some implementations provide built in encryption mechanisms to secure communications sent between the vehicle and headquarters. By incorporating encryption into the device as opposed to using an external encryption mechanism the overall space used on a vehicle i.e. the footprint is reduced.

Implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system generally are contained within a rugged metal housing that is designed to withstand the rigors of battlefield use. Typical implementations provide commercial grade GPS capabilities separate from the transceiver. Some implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system further integrate Ground Based GPS Receiver Application Module GB GRAM military GPS technology and corresponding antennas and or a Selective Availability Anti Spoofing Module SAASM described below . Implementations typically additionally provide RFID interrogator capabilities via a RFID transceiver interrogator component. Combinations of these configurations are also provided e.g. commercial grade GPS alone commercial grade GPS with RFID capabilities GB GRAM and or SAASM alone and GB GRAM SAASM with RFID capabilities.

In implementations that incorporate RFID capabilities an RFID interrogator component is used to transmit a signal requesting a response from RFID receivers tags nearby. RFID tags located nearby e.g. under ten meters receive the signal and respond with a self identifying signal. The RFID tags used in conjunction with the RFID interrogator may be passive semi passive or active. Passive RFID tags have no internal power supply and instead receive any necessary power from the RFID interrogator signal. Semi passive RFIDs tags contain a battery and remain constantly powered. Semi passive RFIDs typically respond to an interrogation signal faster than a passive RFID tag. Active RFID tags transmit a self identifying signal periodically and do not wait for the RFID interrogator signal.

The RFID interrogator receives responses signals from the RFID tags and reports the results via the device to headquarters. The status reports allow headquarters to determine that the location and cargo sent from the warehouse or loading point matches the expected cargo at that particular point. For example A transport truck left headquarters with boxes X Y and Z each having an RFID tag. En route the RFID transceiver transmits an interrogator signal. The RFID tags on each box responds. A first status report and a location indicator are sent via the transceiver to headquarters. Based on the received status report headquarters knows that boxes X Y and Z are en route to the destination. After the first status report is sent to headquarters box Y is dropped off at military base alpha. En route to military base beta the RFID transceiver transmits a second interrogation signal. Boxes X and Z respond. Box Y does not reply because box Y was dropped off is out of range of the interrogation signal. Based on the second status report that is sent to headquarters headquarters determines that box Y is no longer on the transport truck likely box Y was scanned as dropped off at military base alpha and this was communicated to headquarters through other means . Some implementations also provide a 512 kilobyte buffer to accept large data dumps for packetized transmission over the satellite communications link.

An alternative implementation or view of the messaging system is provided in . The primary components in are the mobile satellite transceiver system GPS satellites a communications satellite an Earth Station a packet switch network and an agent application . The mobile satellite transceiver system is a portable communications device with a built in satellite modem GPS receiver and autonomous operating system. The mobile satellite transceiver system provides mobile and or fixed remote access to the messaging system network. The Global Positioning System includes a satellite constellation that provides location signals to the GPS receivers of the mobile satellite transceiver system . The messaging system also includes a communications satellite that provides a Radio Frequency RF communications relay between remote the mobile satellite transceiver system and Earth stations . The Earth station includes antennas and collocated hardware that handle the RF communication between the packet switch and a particular communications satellite . The packet switch is a computer cluster that provides the central message routing and delivery functionality allowing network clients to communicate. The Network Operations Center NOC is typically located in the premises of the operator of the messaging system and its backup sites. In some implementations the NOC is located at a secure location on the premises of a customer of the messaging system . Agent client applications are peripheral customer application that connects to the messaging system network via the packet switch to locate or communicate with other network clients typically the mobile satellite transceiver system and or client applications in signal communication with the mobile satellite transceiver system . The transceiver client applications are peripheral devices and related software that connect to the messaging system via the mobile satellite transceiver system to locate or communicate with other network clients agent clients and or other Transceiver Clients .

The messaging system uses satellite technology for both mobile remote communication and for location tracking. This makes the messaging system an advantageous service platform for two major types of applications Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition SCADA and mobile messaging and location tracking.

SCADA systems are generally used to monitor and or control remote facilities. For example a metropolitan water and sewer utility may use a SCADA application to centrally monitor conditions e.g. water levels in remote storage tanks flow rates at key points in a pipeline etc. or to control equipment e.g. remotely operate a series of valves . The messaging system and the mobile satellite transceiver system are particularly well suited to provide the communication linkage for remote SCADA locations that are not served by traditional telecommunications facilities. Central locations such as headquarters or data centers can access the messaging system over the Internet to communicate with remote locations.

The messaging system is also useful for mobile messaging and location tracking. Many mobile applications require both a data exchange capability and a location tracking capability. The messaging system allows a customer such as a trucking company to establish a private communication network that links each vehicle or shipping container with a central dispatch center to establish and provide a cryptographically isolated communication network. The message capability can be used for dispatch delivery tracking emergency alerts etc. The GPS capability allows up to the minute location tracking for each vehicle.

Some implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system include a commercial grade GPS receiver. Typically in the mobile satellite transceiver system these GPS capabilities are provided by a GPS receiver component within the system . A GPS receiver in the mobile satellite transceiver system within view of at least three GPS satellites can determine its ground position to within 30 meters. With four satellites the GPS receiver can also determine altitude speed and direction of travel i.e. course over ground .

Implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system provide a variety of configuration options with respect to automatic GPS reporting. One option causes the mobile satellite transceiver system to autonomously transmit GPS information to the packet switch at a regular interval. This allows the mobile satellite transceiver system to act as a tracking device for the messaging system regardless of whether a transceiver client is involved. Additional options allow a transceiver client to retrieve current GPS data. Some options allow the client application to show the current location on a map provided by mapping software installed on the transceiver client . In some implementations some network applications utilize military grade GPS allowing for greater location determining precision. In these implementations the mobile satellite transceiver system is used in conjunction with and interfaces with a transceiver client that includes a military grade GPS receiver.

The scalable design of the messaging system architecture allows a single network to support multiple user groups. In some versions the messaging system network configuration segregates each of the user groups that coexist on a network thereby creating a Virtual Private Network VPN for each group. Examples of user groups include a collection of Agent client applications and associated mobile satellite transceiver systems that operate within the confines of a VPN. Typically a user group represents a particular business customer. However a user group also represents in some instances a separate functional division within a customer s organization. The messaging system uses a combination of encryption address node scheme configuration and packet switch process organization to form and secure each VPN.

The messaging system also advantageously provides a flexible addressing scheme for VPNs. The messaging system uses an address abstraction scheme to control message delivery within a VPN. This scheme is based on a collection of named delivery targets known as nodes. Nodes are pre defined as part of the messaging system configuration and provisioning. At run time the messaging system associates a node to one or more actual network elements agent clients or mobile satellite transceiver systems based on a combination of configuration and real time events. Each messaging system message is addressed to a specific node determined by its sender . The messaging system delivers the message to all network elements currently associated with the specified node. This scheme provides a great deal of address flexibility. Node configuration schemes may be creatively constructed to provide individual element addresses as well as broadcast or multicast groups.

The messaging system advantageously generally delivers messages in Datagram mode. In this mode the sender receives no confirmation that a message has been received. This reduces the data sent back and forth between sender and recipient thereby reducing traffic on the messaging system . For messages transmitted from an agent client to the mobile satellite transceiver system the messaging system also supports reliable mode. In reliable mode the packet switch transmits a message repeatedly until the message is received and acknowledged by the mobile satellite transceiver system or until the retry limit is exhausted . The sending agent client receives explicit notification of message success or failure. While this increases traffic on the messaging system this ensures that the message sent was received thereby increasing the trustworthiness that a message got through.

The messaging system uses three key technologies to secure network data communication Digital Spread Spectrum and CDMA technology customer level data encryption and a network firewall. Combined these mechanisms essentially create a VPN that protects the communication between a customer s agents and transceivers .

The messaging system uses Digital Spread Spectrum Code Division Multiple Access DSS CDMA for all radio communications between a mobile satellite transceiver system communications satellites and earth stations . These methodologies are designed to insure secure and reliable radio communications. In one implementation the digital message content is combined with deliberate noise data and transmitted in a burst of bits that are spread over a range of frequencies. This implementation is typically more secure than other implementations. In another implementation the digital message content is combined with deliberate noise data and transmitted using a fixed data sequence. This implementation is typically more cost effective to implement is more reliable and is more fool proof. In both implementations and others the data is encrypted using a pseudo random algorithm and a key. Each transmission typically lasts less than 400 milliseconds and appears as random static to most radio receivers. The receiving device is equipped with a matching algorithm and key allowing it to detect the transmission and reassemble the original content. Additionally or alternatively encryption schemes such as Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms or combinations of these are used to further secure communications.

The DSS CDMA methodology makes the transmission extremely difficult to detect known as Low Probability of Detection or LPD . Even if a transmission is detected and captured it is even more difficult to decode the message content known as Low Probability of Interception or LPI . DSS communication is also much less subject to RF noise or signal jamming. This provides a very high level of security and reliability for the satellite communications segment of the messaging system network.

The messaging system also applies internal encryption to message content to create customer level data encryption. Separate key sets are used for each user group or VPN . This further reinforces the internal separation of customers proprietary information within the messaging system network. The mobile satellite transceiver system encrypts message content before transmitting and decrypts the contents after receiving. The packet switch performs a similar function at the point that it communicates with an agent client application . This approach further insures privacy between various customers being served by a particular packet switch . The customer level data encryption also hides customer message content from network operations staff.

Additionally the messaging system uses a network firewall to increase protection. The packet switch uses a standard network firewall to protect against unauthorized external access. The firewall is configured to allow access only to pre defined agent client applications .

An Earth station handles the RF communication between the packet switch and a particular communication satellite . The Earth station includes a satellite dish and collocated electronic components a host interface box or HIB and a beam processor array or BPA . Combined these components perform translation between the RF communications used by the communications satellite and the traditional network communications used by the packet switch . In essence an Earth station serves as the packet switch s satellite modem. In some implementations an Earth station serves as a transmitter a receiver and or both. Often Earth stations are dedicated to a particular role. Transmitting stations generally require an operating license and are subject to restrictions with regard to local geography and population density. As a result transmitting dishes are typically located in remote sparsely populated areas. Transmitting dishes are usually owned and operated by the satellite service vendor. Vendors also normally provide collocation space for the BPA and HIB components.

Receiver stations do not require licensing and are subject to little or no legal restrictions. They can be placed almost anywhere that has an unobstructed view of the target communications satellite . As a result receiving Earth stations may be fully owned and operated by an operator of the messaging system or an autonomous customer.

As described herein several components make up an Earth station the antenna the HIB and the BPA . The antenna commonly referred to as the host is the satellite dish that handles direct radio communication with a specific communications satellite . Depending on its role e.g. transmitter a receiver or both the host usually includes additional electronics such as signal amplifiers for transmitters RF noise filters for receivers and frequency converters for transmitters and receivers . A transmitting host takes the RF signal from the HIB and transmits it toward the communications satellite . A receiving host captures the satellite s radio transmission and delivers it to the HIB .

The HIB links the BPA components to the host . The HIB consists of an array of electronic and RF components in some implementations assembled into a single chassis. The primary electronic function of the HIB is to perform the conversion between the digitized DSS CDMA serial data stream used by the Beam Processor Array and the analog RF signal format used by both the host and the communications satellite .

From an architectural perspective the HIB also serves as a host adapter as its name implies . It insulates the standardized interface of the BPA from the potential variation of the host interfaces. Implementations of the HIB are compatible with most standard host interfaces. When the messaging system is adapted to a new type of host interface however advantageously the HIB s electronic composition can be adjusted to meet the requirements. The physical composition of the EIB varies depending on the number of communication satellites and or beams coverage areas being served by the Earth station . It also varies based on the station s role as a transmitter or receiver.

The Beam Processor Array is a collection of processing modules known as beam processors that provide the satellite modem functionality within the Earth station . The array is basically a chassis containing one or more independent beam processors. The beam processors of the array serve as the link between the packet switch and the HIB on behalf of a specific satellite beam. The beam processors perform the conversion between the TCP IP packet data format used by the packet switch and digitized DSS CDMA serial data stream used by the HIB . In essence it is the satellite modem for a particular beam. A beam processor may be configured as a transmitter as a receiver or as both dual mode . The transmitter functionality and the receiver functionality operate as separate independent processing channels even if a beam processor is used in dual mode . The composition of the Beam Processor Array varies depending on the number of beams being serviced by the Earth station the role of the Earth station as a transmitter and or receiver and the hardware reduidancy plan for the array .

The packet switch forms the central core of the messaging system network. Physically the packet switch consists of one or more networked computers that run a Unix operating system in a preferred implementation the computers run FreeBSD . Logically the packet switch comprises a set of distributed processes and configuration stores.

The packet switch communicates with Earth stations to perform message exchange with transceivers and associated transceiver clients . The packet switch also provides the agent API and serves as the host for all agent client application sessions. The packet switch in some versions serves as a master network router accepting messages from senders and delivering them to the intended recipient s . The primary functionality of the packet switch resides in three types of component processes hub client agent and router . These processes communicate with each other and with other network components using TCP IP connections. This architecture allows the processes to be distributed across the machines that form the packet switch thereby providing maximum scalability.

The HubClient Process HubClient is the packet switch s Earth station interface process. It handles the communications between the packet switch and a particular beam processor within the BPA of an Earth station . In some versions the packet switch operates a separate instance of the HubClient process for each beam processor channel transmitting or receiving . This means that a particular HubClient instance assumes a role as either a receiver or a transmitter. Each transmitter HubClient accepts outbound messages from the router process and relays them to its associated beam processor for translation and satellite transmission. Each receiver HubClient accepts inbound messages from its associated beam processor and relays them to the router process .

The agent process is the packet switch s customer facing subcomponent. The agent processes host the agent s API serving as the gateway between a customer s business applications agent clients and the messaging system network. Among other abilities this allows an agent client to track and exchange messages with its related transceivers .

From an architectural perspective an agent process also serves as the anchor point for its designated user group or VPN. Consequently the packet switch runs a separate instance of the agent process for each distinct user group. The configuration of a particular agent process defines the scope and membership of its related VPN.

An agent process can host API connections or agent client sessions for multiple agent clients . This gives the customer the option of dedicating agent clients to specific functions within the VPN such as dispatch GPS tracking general message exchange etc. . An agent process is also responsible for central message processing within the VPN. This includes encryption decryption for the agent client sessions. The agent process communicates with the router process to receive inbound messages from the mobile satellite transceiver system and to send outbound messages to the mobile satellite transceiver system . The agent process also serves as an intermediary for transceiver to transceiver messages within a VPN.

The router process handles message routing between agent processes and the HubClient processes . Conventionally the router process is a single process on the packet switch . However for scalability the messaging system architecture allows multiple router processes to work in concert to form a distributed virtual router. The router processes relay outbound messages received from agent processes to the appropriate HubClient s for transmission over the appropriate beams. The router process relays inbound messages from a HubClient to the agent process that is responsible for the sending transceiver s VPN.

Within the core network components the messaging system architecture provides two interfaces for network client applications the agent process API and the transceiver API. Both APIs consist of a command line interpreter CLI and a specific command set that operates in a fashion similar to a traditional DOS command prompt. The client can execute appropriate commands to accomplish tasks such as sending a message to another network client .

Each agent process on the packet switch provides an agent process API which is designed to support a customer s central or ground based applications agent clients . Agent clients operate from outside the messaging system network typically on a customer s private system platform. The agent processes usually connect to the agent API using TCP IP over the Internet or other dedicated circuit . The agent client can then use the API to receive GPS tracking data from transceivers and or exchange messages with other network clients within the VPN.

One implementation of the mobile satellite transceiver system provides an external RS 422 serial interface designed to connect to an external device e.g. a transceiver client . In some implementations a transceiver client is a PC hand held terminal and or a customized device.

Once connected to the mobile satellite transceiver system the transceiver client has access to the transceiver API command set. A transceiver client can then use the mobile satellite transceiver system to exchange messages with agent clients or other transceivers within the VPN. The transceiver client also retrieves the current GPS location the mobile satellite transceiver system . The transceiver API also allows a transceiver client to control a number of functions and settings of the mobile satellite transceiver system including but not limited to digital I O power management and emergency mode operation.

The overall messaging system architecture includes network client components applications and devices that use the network. In some implementations however network clients are considered peripheral to the core network architecture because client application development and operations is conceptually the domain of the customer or an external technology partner. Client applications generally fall into either of two categories agent clients or transceiver clients .

Agent clients are users or applications that connect to the messaging system network using the agent API. This normally involves a TCP IP connection over the Internet dedicated circuit and or dial up connection. Once connected the agent client has full access to the agent API command set. In most agent client scenarios the interaction with the API is performed by software either by an automated process or by a translation layer that acts on behalf of a human user. However it is possible for a user to engage the API directly using a utility such as TELNET. The primary purpose of most agent clients is to exchange messages with transceivers and or track their locations.

It is customary for an agent client to assume the identity of a pre defined network node while connected to the network thus allowing it to receive the messages addressed to the node. This technique combined with proper configuration of the mobile satellite transceiver system and an appropriate node addressing scheme allows an agent client to act as a central point of communication or data collection for certain network applications. Since an agent process can handle multiple simultaneous agent clients it is possible to design agent clients with specific dedicated roles within the network application scheme.

Since agent clients typically connect to the messaging system over the Internet the connection is likely to support a much higher communication bandwidth than the transceiver satellite linkage. Agent clients have a better potential for maintaining a continuous long term connection with the network. These factors tend to concentrate higher traffic application roles such as central dispatch or GPS location tracking to the realm of agent clients rather than transceiver clients .

Transceiver clients are users or applications that connect to the messaging system network through the mobile satellite transceiver system using the transceiver API. In some implementations this is achieved via an RS 422 serial connection between the mobile satellite transceiver system and the device acting as the transceiver client . Once connected the transceiver client has full access to the transceiver API command set.

In most transceiver client scenarios the interaction with the API is performed by software either by an automated process or by a translation layer that acts on behalf of a human user. However it is possible for a user to engage the API directly using commonly available terminal emulation utilities such as PC Plus HyperTerminal etc. The primary purpose of most transceiver clients is to exchange messages with other network clients either the mobile satellite transceiver system or agent clients and or determine its own current location or that of other mobile satellite transceiver systems . The nature of the RS 422 serial interface limits the mobile satellite transceiver system to only one transceiver client at a time. The nature of the satellite communication linkage with respect to both speed and transience limits a transceiver client s practical ability to handle central application roles that require significant data volume or bandwidth. This inherent limitation is somewhat lessened for fixed remote transceiver applications since they are usually able to maintain a constant lock on the satellite .

In some implementations the mobile satellite transceiver system also has text messaging capabilities. The messaging system is designed to transport short message packets between network clients. A network client may be either an agent client connected to the packet switch or a mobile satellite transceiver system used in a mobile or fixedremote application . The messaging system messages are somewhat analogous though distinctly different as explained below to email messages in the following respects The user or client application provides message content known as payload . Messages are routed and delivered to the destination asynchronously usually within a few seconds. There is no guarantee that the intended recipient is presently available to read the message. It is possible to request confirmation of delivery from the receiving party. The message as a whole includes standard header information used for network routing. Message content is typically represented in printable ASCII text. Binary content must be encoded as printable ASCII text in the form of Hexadecimal pairs. However messaging system messages differ from email in the following ways message payload the carrying capacity available for text or application data is limited to 100 110 bytes. Messages are addressed to other messaging system network members using a proprietary addressing scheme rather than a traditional email address . Messages must be addressed to a single destination node. There is typically no explicit CC capability though multicasting and broadcasting capabilities are available in some implementations. The messaging system message transport mechanism is ideal for applications that must exchange short independent data packets on a relatively infrequent basis.

The mobile satellite transceiver system is intended to withstand most outdoor environments. They are typically installed in housing mounted to a vehicle or container for mobile applications or mounted to a stationary object such as a sensor station on a remote pipeline for fixed remote applications .

Many implementations of the mobile satellite transceiver system provide the following capabilities and advantages an L Band satellite modem that operate over MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and OPTUS L Band channels a commercial grade GPS receiver on board processor and operating system RS 422 Serial interface to connect to for external devices API command set to serve a user or client application from an attached peripheral device emergency alert mode ability to automatically detect and tune to appropriate satellite communication frequency known as World Wide Autonomy or WWA over the air configuration capability known as remote provisioning auxiliary power supply for external devices and power management features.

The mobile satellite transceiver system is additionally or alternatively equipped with an internal operating system that operates autonomously. This allows the mobile satellite transceiver system to maintain a communications lock on the satellite and to accept messages from the messaging system network. It can also be configured to periodically report its GPS location and general status to the packet switch . The operating system also contains the command line interface and command set that serves as the API for an attached transceiver client .

In some versions the operating system is configured to meet the interface requirements of the Gen III RF interrogator board produced by Savi Technology of Sunnyvale Calif. and or a GRAM SAASM board including health and diagnostic capabilities for both . Interrogator capabilities include determining an RFID tag s identity information e.g. tag number received signal strength indicator battery status code and or the tag s header data e.g. tag number Transportation Control Number TCN Consignee DODAAC and or Commodity Class . Interrogator requests may occur at defined intervals or on demand from an Earth station . Interrogation may be turned on and off on an as needed basis. Messages sent may also include a bumper number e.g. a unit ID or a combat ID a grid location date and time manual inputs for RFID tags if necessary e.g. tag reading malfunction . Some implementations of the transceiver are configured to cause RFID tags to emit audible beeps.

The mobile satellite transceiver system may also support virtual LEDs or status indicators that are changed and or set by software to indicate an established satellite link indication of data transmission and or reception or other statuses. The mobile satellite transceiver system may also utilize an external cryptographic device to fill the cryptographic keys used during communications. The external cryptographic device is typically connected via a RS 422 serial connector.

One implementation of the mobile satellite transceiver system has the following specifications. The mobile satellite transceiver s size is approximately eight inches wide by eight inches deep by five inches tall i.e. 8 8 5 . It weighs approximately 11 lbs and has an operating temperature of 40 C. to 65 C. This implementation of the mobile satellite transceiver is 100 humidity and highly water resistant and operates at altitudes of 0 to 25 000 feet. The main interface to the unit is a RS 422 serial port military style connector and the unit requires 10 32 volts of direct current vdc at 1 ampere power. Power is supplied through a 12 vdc input and the Mobile Satellite Transceiver uses 0.25 amps during receiving operations 2.0 amps for 

The above described techniques can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks optical disks and or flash memory. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LED Light Emitting Diodes or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a ground server data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a satellite network a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers or devices and having a client server relationship to each other.

The invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

