---

title: Headrest having an integrated video screen
abstract: A seat back video display assembly adapted to be positioned in the back of a vehicle seat having an outer skin cover. In one aspect, the assembly may comprise a receptacle member having sidewalls and a back wall so as to define an opening wherein the receptacle member is adapted to be positioned in the back of the vehicle seat. In addition, the assembly may further comprise a carrier member having sidewalls and a back wall so as to define an opening, wherein the carrier member includes at least one fastener that extends from the back wall of the carrier member and engages with the back wall of the receptacle member to secure the carrier member into the receptacle member. Moreover, the assembly may still further comprise a video display unit that is sized so as to be positioned secured within the opening in the carrier member, wherein the video display unit provides video signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07407227&OS=07407227&RS=07407227
owner: Timely Innovations, L.P.
number: 07407227
owner_city: Temecula
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060502
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 395 870 filed Mar. 20 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 040 697 entitled HEADREST HAVING AN INTEGRATED VIDEO SCREEN which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and this application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 819 341 filed Apr. 5 2004 entitled HEADREST HEAD RESTRAINT HAVING AN INTEGRATED VIDEO SCREEN and to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 415 918 filed concurrently with this application entitled HEADREST HAVING AN INTEGRATED VIDEO SCREEN which is a divisional of the above identified Ser. No. 10 395 870 application.

The present invention relates to motor vehicles and in particular to a headrest for motor vehicle seats having an integrated video screen mounted therein.

Seat back video monitors are becoming increasingly popular in vehicles. Originally these entertainment systems were largely confined to airplanes however recently these systems have become much more popular with cars trucks and SUVs. These entertainment systems provide the opportunity for passengers to view entertainment or educational video programs during long trips.

Typically these systems have been installed as aftermarket products where the seat back is modified to accept the video display device however more of these systems are being installed as original equipment. Unfortunately existing systems are often difficult and labor intensive to mount particularly as an aftermarket product and are also subject to being dislodged.

Generally the devices are mounted on the outer surface of the seat back where they protrude. In many vehicles the space between seats and seat backs is limited hence the protruding video display unit can inhibit the ability of passengers to easily get into and out of the vehicles. Moreover passenger contact with the protruding video display screen may result in the screens being inadvertently dislodged.

A further difficulty with many existing video display unit designs is that they are not well secured to the seat. This is particularly the case for designs that allow the video display unit to pivot about an axis to improve the viewing angle of the passenger. One common way that these display units are installed is that a bucket is installed into the seat and the peripheral rim of the bucket includes openings that receive pivot posts that extend outward from the housing of the display unit. The pivot posts are positioned within the openings and keepers or caps are then positioned in the openings to prevent the pivot posts from being removed from the openings.

In these designs the keepers or caps are generally press fit and are exposed to the passenger. Hence inadvertent contact may result in the keepers or caps being dislodged. Moreover many of the passengers are children who through boredom may attempt to remove the keepers which can result in the video display being dislodged and potentially damaged.

Hence from the foregoing there is a need for a seat back video display system and method of mounting that provides more secure mounting of the video display unit. To this end there is a need for an assembly that is less likely to be dislodged through inadvertent contact and does not have exposed detachable mounting components.

The aforementioned needs may be satisfied by a seat back video display assembly adapted to be positioned in the back of a vehicle seat having an outer skin cover. In one aspect the assembly may comprise a receptacle member having sidewalls and a back wall so as to define an opening wherein the receptacle member is adapted to be positioned in the back of the vehicle seat. In addition the assembly may further comprise a carrier member having sidewalls and a back wall so as to define an opening wherein the carrier member includes at least one fastener that extends from the back wall of the carrier member and engages with the back wall of the receptacle member to secure the carrier member into the receptacle member and a video display unit that is sized so as to be positioned secured within the opening in the carrier member wherein the video display unit provides video signals.

Additionally in one embodiment the at least one fastener may comprise a plurality of fasteners that include a central member that extends outward from back wall of the carrier member and a plurality of flexible engagement members attached to the central member wherein the flexible engagement members are deformable so as to allow insertion of the central member into the openings in the back wall of the receptacle member and wherein the flexible engagement members are biased outward so as to inhibit removal of the central member from the openings in the back wall of the receptacle member. Also the video display unit may be pivotally attached to the carrier member such that the plane of the video display unit can be adjusted by a user about a pivot point or axis wherein the video display unit may be pivotable about a substantially horizontal pivot axis a substantially vertical pivot axis or pivot point that allows a continuous range of pivotal motion about the pivot point. Also the openings may be positioned in the sidewalls of the receptacle member and the plurality of capture members are positioned within the openings and wherein the plurality of capture members define a pointed surface that engages with the outer skin and inhibits removal of the outer skin from the opening defined by the receptacle member so as to securely fasten the outer skin to the receptacle member.

Additionally in certain embodiments the seat back video display assembly includes a screen cover that is dimensioned to cover the video display unit such that the screen cover can disengageably cover the screen of the video display unit to occlude the screen. The screen cover can include an impact attenuating material a rigid protective layer or any combination thereof.

The aforementioned needs may also be satisfied by a vehicle seat assembly having a seat back display. In one aspect the vehicle seat assembly may comprise a vehicle seat adapted to receive an occupant during travel of a vehicle the vehicle seat defining a seat back with an outer contour and a skin and a receptacle member having sidewalls and a back wall to as to define an opening wherein the receptacle member is mounted in the seat back of the vehicle seat such that the sidewalls are located at or below the outer contour of the seat back. In addition the vehicle seat assembly may further comprise a video display unit mounted within the receptacle member wherein the video display unit is generally planar with the outer plane being mounted at or below the outer contour of the seat back.

Moreover the aforementioned needs may also be satisfied by a method of installing a video display unit into a seat back of a vehicle seat. In one embodiment the method may comprise cutting an opening through an outer skin of the seat back forming an aperture in the seat back and positioning a receptacle in the aperture such that the receptacle is mounted at or below the level of the seat back. In addition the method may comprise securing the video display unit to a carrier and mounting the carrier into the receptacle such that an upper surface of the video display unit is mounted below the outer surface of the seat back. These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference will now be made to the drawings wherein like numerals refer to like parts throughout. A headrest for motor vehicle seats having an integrated video screen mounted therein in a flush or recessed manner will be described in greater detail herein below with reference to the drawings. In one aspect it should be appreciated that the term motor vehicle seats refers to a plurality of generally known motor vehicles seats such as those manufactured for automobiles buses boats cars semi trucks etc. wherein the following discussion can be similarly applied to these various types of motor vehicle seats without departing from scope of the present teachings. In addition the following discussion refers to mounting the integrated video screen to the headrest of motor vehicle seats but may also be applied to other various component features of motor vehicle seats such as the seat back without departing from the scope of the present teachings.

In one embodiment the video screen comprises a generally known LCD liquid crystal display monitor or terminal that can be electrically coupled to a video entertainment system so as to receive video signals therefrom for viewing of movies television internet web pages video games etc. As illustrated the video screen is generally rectangular in shape with the planar front surface that is viewable by a user. In one aspect it should be appreciated that the degree of recessed depth with no depth comprising a flush mount of the integrated video screen and the manner in which the contour of the seat is shaped may be selected such that the shape side view for example of the headrest with the integrated video screen mounted therein is generally similar to the shape of the headrest without the integrated video screen . Moreover it should be appreciated that the motor vehicle seats may comprise any one of a number of various types or models of generally known motor vehicle seats without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In still another aspect as illustrated in the screen cover may comprise an impact attenuating section comprising a material such as foam various types of padding an air cushion etc. so as to soften the force of an impact from an object. For example during a car accident a person s head may be propelled towards the screen cover wherein the impact attenuating material may soften the impact to the headrest to thereby protect the person s head and the video screen from damage.

Also in one embodiment the video screen can be viewed by opening the screen cover or temporarily occluded by closing the screen cover . Hence the screen cover can be outwardly rotated about the hinge in a first direction to openly view the video screen or the screen cover can be inwardly rotated about the hinge in a second direction opposite the first direction to temporarily occlude the video screen . Advantageously the screen cover when closed conceals the video screen from view thus in some situations functions as a thief deterrent.

Moreover in one aspect the recessed configuration of the video screen facilitates the manner in which the screen cover may be deployed. For example the video screen may not physically interfere with the closing of the screen cover . In addition as illustrated in B the screen cover is intended to hide the video screen from outside observers thereby reducing the probability that the video screen will be a target of theft. As further illustrated in B the screen cover may further comprise a means for engagement that allows the screen cover to remain in the up or closed configuration. In general it should be appreciated that some possible means for achieving such an engagement include but are mot limited to magnetic strips mechanical clips velcro strips and the like.

As illustrated in the video screen may be mounted within the carrier member via side fasteners shown in B and then the carrier member is mounted within the carrier receptacle via the first fasteners so as to simplify the mounting of the video screen to the headrest including the headrest bun . In one aspect the first fasteners may comprise a plurality of flexible engagement members that extend therefrom so as to mechanically couple with a plurality of mounting apertures formed in the rear wall of the carrier receptacle . The first fasteners may further comprise a central member that extends outward from the rear wall of the carrier member . Also the flexible engagement members are attached to the central member wherein the flexible engagement members are deformable so as to allow insertion of the central member into the mounting apertures in the rear wall of the carrier receptacle . Moreover the flexible engagement members are biased outward so as to inhibit removal of the central member from the mounting apertures in the rear wall of the carrier receptacle . In addition the first fasteners comprise a head that abuts the rear wall of the carrier member and is positioned through a plurality of second apertures formed in the rear wall of the carrier member .

Advantageously the video screen can be mounted to the headrest via the carrier receptacle and the carrier member without using external fasteners that may be seen. Hence the video screen can be mounted to the headrest in a more aesthetically appealing manner wherein the front surface of the video screen recessed or flush mounted with respect to the outer surface of the headrest and wherein the first and second fasteners are concealed from view.

As illustrated in the sidewalls of the carrier receptacle each comprise at least one sidewall aperture having at least one serrated tooth protruding from an interior sidewall . In one embodiment the at least one serrated tooth is triangular in shape having a pointed tip that projects outward from the interior sidewall in a horizontal manner. It should be appreciated that the serrated tooth may comprise any one of a number of various shapes known in the art without departing from the scope of the present teachings. Additionally as will be shown in the pointed tip engages with the outer skin and inhibits removal of the outer skin from the at least one sidewall aperture formed in the carrier receptacle . Advantageously as will be described in greater detail herein below the serrated tooth allows outer skin from the motor vehicle seat to be attached to the carrier receptacle by wrapping the outer skin around the planar sidewalls and into the recessed region of the carrier receptacle and then securing the outer skin to the serrated tooth .

In one aspect the pivot region of the second fastener rotatably communicates with the pivot aperture of the carrier member to thereby allow the video screen to pivot or tilt with respect to the carrier member and or the headrest along a horizontal pivot axis defined by the horizontally mounted second fasteners . Hence the video screen is pivotally attached to the carrier member such that the plane of the video screen can be adjusted with respect to the headrest by a user about the defined horizontal pivot axis . Advantageously the horizontal pivot axis allows the video screen to readily pivot when mounted to the headrest to thereby allow greater positional flexibility during viewing of the video screen by a user.

In one aspect it should be appreciated that the second fasteners may comprise generally known screws such as sheet metal screws without departing from the scope of the present invention. It should also be appreciated that the pivot region of the second fasteners may be threaded in a manner such that the video screen can still pivot with respect to the carrier member without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Moreover once the pivot member is attached to the video screen in a manner as previously described the spherical ball of the pivot member can be pressed to fit within the spherical receptacle formed in the rear wall of the carrier member . In one aspect the spherical ball may be sized at least less than the size of the spherical receptacle so as to allow rotational movement therein. Advantageously the resulting interconnection between the spherical ball of the pivot member and the spherical receptacle of the carrier member defines a pivot point to thereby allow the video screen to pivot tilt or rotate in a multi directional manner with respect to the defined pivot point . Therefore the defined pivot point allows the video screen to readily pivot when mounted to the headrest to thereby allow greater positional flexibility during viewing of the video screen by a user.

In addition the video screen may be mounted to the carrier member so as to pivot with respect thereto in a manner as previously described with reference to B C. Following the carrier member including the video screen can then be mounted to the carrier receptacle via the first fasteners in a manner as previously described with reference to . Advantageously this method of attaching the video screen to the headrest via the carrier receptacle the carrier member and the fasteners allows the video screen to be securely mounted to the headrest while providing a means for pivoting the video screen with respect to the headrest so as to improve the viewing range by a user.

As further illustrated in the carrier receptacle may be positioned within the mounting recess formed in the headrest bun and then the outer skin is secured to the serrated teeth via the flaps formed therein by hooking the flaps to one or more of the serrated teeth . Once the outer skin is attached to the serrated teeth via the flaps the carrier member is firmly pressed within the mounting recess of the headrest bun so that the first fasteners couple to the mounting apertures formed in the rear wall of the carrier receptacle .

Advantageously this interconnection between the carrier member and carrier receptacle provides a quick and easy means for mounting of the video screen to the headrest . In addition the pressed fit of the outer skin between the carrier member and the carrier receptacle further secures the outer skin of the motor vehicle seat to the carrier receptacle . As a result the outer skin is securely held to the carrier receptacle via the one or more serrated teeth formed in the planar sidewalls of the carrier receptacle and the pressed fit of the carrier member within the mourning recess of the carrier receptacle .

Although the foregoing description has shown described and pointed out the fundamental novel features of the invention it will be understood that various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the detail of the apparatus as illustrated as well as the uses thereof may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. Consequently the scope of the invention should not be limited to the foregoing discussion but should be defined by the appended claims.

