---

title: Coaxial charged particle energy analyzer
abstract: A non-dispersive electrostatic energy analyzer for electrons and other charged particles having a generally coaxial structure of a sequentially arranged sections of an electrostatic lens to focus the beam through an iris and preferably including an ellipsoidally shaped input grid for collimating a wide acceptance beam from a charged-particle source, an electrostatic high-pass filter including a planar exit grid, and an electrostatic low-pass filter. The low-pass filter is configured to reflect low-energy particles back towards a charged particle detector located within the low-pass filter. Each section comprises multiple tubular or conical electrodes arranged about the central axis. The voltages on the lens are scanned to place a selected energy band of the accepted beam at a selected energy at the iris. Voltages on the high-pass and low-pass filters remain substantially fixed during the scan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07928381&OS=07928381&RS=07928381
owner: Apparati, Inc.
number: 07928381
owner_city: Hollister
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060519
---
This invention was partially developed under NASA Contract No. SBIR NNC04CA20C. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to analyzers for charged particle beams. In particular the invention relates to electrostatic energy analyzers of electrons or other charged particles.

Charged particle energy analyzers also called spectrometers are used in many scientific and technical applications in which the energy distribution of charged particles such as electrons are measured. Such uses include characterizing the composition and other properties of materials in which the electron energy needs to be measured for example X ray photoelectron spectrometers and electron spectrometers and secondary ion spectrometers. Similar spectroscopes such as secondary ion spectrometers have been applied to other charged particles such as energetic ions. Many scientific experiments require accurate measurement of the energy distribution of charged particles.

The performance of a charged particle energy analyzer of which an electron energy analyzer is but one example but the most prevalent one is gauged by several conflicting characteristics. It needs to have a narrow resolution over a reasonably large energy band and the selected energy should be easily tuned. Its resolution needs to be stable and not require repeated calibration. The energy analyzer needs to have a high detection efficiency which results in a high throughput of analyzed samples. Of especial importance in material characterization in which secondary electrons or ions are emitted over a wide angle from the material being probed the energy analyzer should have a wide aperture and a wide acceptance angle to thereby increase the collection efficiency. A typical requirement of a commercial electron energy analyzer is that it be able to analyze 10 to 20 of the electrons emitted from the material and to distinguish electrons whose energies differ by as little as 0.1 .

Commercial energy analyzers should be rugged small easy to operate and relatively inexpensive. If these commercial characteristics can be improved materials analysis equipment can more readily find acceptance in production environments such as in line processing monitors in the semiconductor industry. Such characteristics are also important for remote operation such as the search for life on Mars. For space applications an energy analyzer needs to be lightweight a characteristic also desired for other applications.

Dispersive energy analyzers rely upon electrostatic or magnetic deflection of the charged particles to select the energy of the particle to be detected. Although effective at very high resolution dispersive energy analyzers tend to be large and have relatively small acceptance apertures which result in a low measurement throughput. On the other hand non dispersive energy analyzers typically rely upon serially arranged low pass and high pass energy filters to allow only the particles within a selected energy band to reach the detector. A low pass filter passes particles having energies below a cutoff energy and blocks those above. A high pass filter passes particles having energies above another cutoff energy and blocks those below. It is understood that the cutoff energy need not represent a sharp discontinuity in the transmission factor which may vary somewhat gradually across the cutoff energy.

Two of the present inventors disclose a compact non dispersive energy analyzer for analyzing the energy of electrons in the range of a few electron volts eV to a few keV in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 631 filed Oct. 8 2004 and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication 2005 0045832 A1 incorporated herein by reference. This energy analyzer includes an initial low pass filter followed by a high pass filter both of which incorporate biased electrical grids through which the charged particles of the proper energy may pass. In particular the low pass filter includes a curved grid which together with a similarly curved electrode in back of it reflects the low energy electrons into a collimated beam which then passes through a planar high pass grid filter. The energy overlap of the low pass and high pass filters determines the overall pass band of the energy analyzer which is tuned to provide an energy spectrum.

The described energy analyzer provides superior performance. However we now believe that its fabrication is overly complex particularly because of the curved grid which should be large and ellipsoidally shaped. Further the preferred embodiments include an entrance section arranged along an axis generally perpendicularly to the axis of the rest of the cylindrically shaped chamber so that the overall size and weight of the analyzer are increased thereby decreasing the usefulness of the design for space applications. The reference also describes a coaxial design but this design requires the electron source typically a sample being irradiated by probe particles or radiation to be inserted into the middle of the high vacuum coaxial analyzer. Such a sample insertion is disadvantageous for remote high throughput operation as required for a space application or even for an industrial application. In any case a sample apparatus located in the beam path between the low pass and high pass filters is bound to absorb some of the desired back reflected electrons and reduce the throughput of the analyzer.

Tepermeister et al. disclose a coaxial two section analyzer in Modeling and construction of a novel electron energy analyzer for rapid x ray photoelectron spectroscopy spectra acquisition vol. 62 no. 8 August 1992 pp. 3828 3834. However the Tepermeister design includes two large curved grids between its two sections and does not control the energy of the particles incident on the first section and does not focus them before entering the first section. Thus the Tepermeister analyzer is considered to be large difficult to build and provide low throughput.

A compact economical and efficient charged particle analyzer is thus still needed for many applications both in the laboratory and commercial production line and in demanding space applications.

In one aspect of the invention a charged particle energy analyzer for example an electron energy analyzer includes a coaxial set of electrostatic optics including a series of coaxial electrodes forming walls of the analyzer. The electrodes may have tubular or conical shapes. A charged particle detector detects the intensity of charged particles passed by the low pass filter.

In one aspect of the invention the charged particle analyzer includes a high pass electrostatic filter followed by a low pass electrostatic filter. The high pass filter may include a plurality of differentially biased wall electrodes. Preferably one or more biased planar grids separate the two filters.

An electrostatic lens may be placed between the source of the charged particles such as electrons. The lens which may include a plurality of differentially biased wall electrodes advantageously includes elements including a biased iris which controls the energy of the charged particle entering the high pass filter. Preferably the lens selectively controls e.g. reduces the energy of the charge particle entering the high pass filter to a substantially constant input energy such that the energy spectrum may be scanned substantially within the lens while the downstream elements process charged particles of substantially the same energy and the voltages of their electrostatic elements are not substantially changed during the scan. That is the energy scanning is preferably performed in the lens with a selected amount of acceleration or retardation so that the selected energy band enters the filters at a substantially fixed energy.

In one design based on coaxial electrodes the particle detector is placed within the low pass filter and accepts only charged particles entering it from the downstream side.

The lens which may be composed of coaxial electrodes similar to those of the filters may focus the charged particles through an iris at the input to the filters. The lens may include at its input a curved mesh having a concave side facing the source of charged particles. The mesh shape is preferably aspheric and more preferably ellipsoidal.

A dual screen comprising two grids may separate the high pass and low pass filters. In normal operation both grids are biased to substantially the same voltage which may be that of the adjacent coaxial electrodes. However in a calibration mode the first grid is biased more negative for electrons than the second grid so that no charged particles within the passband pass the screen according to the design. Nonetheless those charged particles are detected at the output of the low pass filter which detected particles represent spurious signals or noise. The spurious spectrum is subtracted from the spectrum detected in normal mode to optimize the resolution of the analyzer.

A first embodiment of a coaxial electron energy analyzer of the invention is schematically illustrated in the cross sectional view of . The analyzer is generally circularly symmetrical shaped about a central axis . The entrance end of the analyzer is positioned next to a sample which emits electrons in the eV to low keV energy range. The sample is preferably also located on the central axis but it may be inclined to accommodate the probe beam which excites the electrons from the sample . The entrance end includes a curved input grid preferably aspherically shaped and more preferably ellipsoidally shaped which accepts electrons from the sample within an acceptance half angle and in cooperation with potentials on other lens electrodes of an electrostatic input lens focus them on the plane of an iris . The aspheric grid may be ellipsoidally shaped by hydraulically compressing an 80 mesh stainless steel screen mesh sandwiched between aluminum foil and copper disks against a concave ellipsoidal mold while holding the outer periphery of the screen sandwich above the lip of the mold. Although it is not required the aspheric grid is held at the same potential as the sample so that the electrons leaving the sample are in a field free region.

The aspheric grid is mounted on and electrically connected to a conically shaped end electrode of the electrostatic lens which is coaxial about the central axis . Several differentially biased coaxial electrodes of either tubular or conical shape to be illustrated in detail later form the side walls of the lens . The biased iris has a central aperture on which the lens including the curved input grid focuses the electron trajectories. In one implementation the iris is biased such that an electron leaving the sample at any energy selected for analysis between 50 and 1500 eV exits the aperture at a fixed energy for the selected analysis energy of 1000 eV in the standard mode and between 200 and 500 eV for example 333 eV in the high resolution mode. That is the lens may act as either a retarding or an accelerating lens depending upon the biasing of the different electrodes in the lens so that the electrons enter the following sections within standard bandpass energies of those filters.

The electrons passing through the aperture enter an electrostatic high pass filter which is coaxial about the central axis and has a narrow entrance end having a diameter of that of the exit end of the lens but then flaring to a wider exit end. Differentially biased conical or tubular round electrodes to be illustrated in more detail later form the side walls of the high pass filter . A biased dual screen is placed at the wider exit end of the high pass filter perpendicular to the central axis . Advantageously the large dual screen may be planar greatly simplifying the design and fabrication of the analyzer. The first grid in the dual screen in typical operation is biased at nearly the same voltage as the last electrode in the high pass filter .

The electrodes in the high pass filter are biased to retard the energy of the electrons so that all those below the cutoff energy of the high pass filter approximately 1000 eV at its input in the low resolution mode and about 1 or 2 eV or even less at its output have insufficient energy to reach the dual screen and are reflected from it. Those electrons having energy greater than the cutoff energy pass through the dual screen . Those having only slightly more energy approach the dual screen at nearly normal angles at pass through it perpendicularly.

The second grid is not required for normal operation in which the two grids are held at the same potential. However the two grids allow spurious electrons to be canceled by reference to a calibration run. Specifically if in a calibration mode the first grid is set to a voltage above the selected bandpass while the second grid is set to the normal voltage at the bottom of bandpass no electrons passing the first grid should be within the selected bandpass. Any electrons which are nonetheless detected in the calibrating mode are spurious. The detected intensity in the calibration mode represents background signal which can be subtracted from the detected intensity in the normal mode when the two grids are held at the same potential thereby sharpening the bandpass.

Those electrons above the cutoff energy enter an electrostatic low pass filter which has a diameter equal to that of the exit end of the high pass filter . The low pass filter includes a series of coaxial electrodes along its sidewalls and back wall. These electrodes deflect low energy electrons toward the electron detector while allowing higher energy electrons to strike either the electrodes or the front housing of the detector . Also a central nose electrode in front of an electron detector deflects low energy electrons away from the central axis . The detector is located so that only low energy electron that are deflected from the electrodes of the low pass filter enter it. The low energy electrons for the most part need to reverse directions to reach the sensitive part of the detector located at the downstream side of the detector . As a result the low pass filter also acts as an electrostatic reflecting lens.

In one implementation the sample is separated from the annular rim of the grid by 0.85 22 mm and 25 for an analysis area on the sample having a 3.5 mm diameter. The tubular diameter of the lens is about 2.5 64 mm the diameter of the low pass filter is about 5.9 150 mm and the total length is about 15.4 390 mm .

A more detailed structural view of one design of the analyzer is shown in cross section in . The lens includes a conically shaped electrode on which a flange of the aspheric mesh is mounted and is electrically connected. The lens further includes a combined conical and tubular electrode tubular electrodes and the independently biased iris . All the electrodes are coaxial about the central axis . The lens tends to focus every electron trajectory having the desired bandpass energy through the aperture of the iris .

The high pass filter includes a tubular entry electrode conical electrodes of increasing diameters and a tubular exit electrode all coaxial about the central axis . A first grid of the dual screen is mounted on a flange on the back of the exit electrode and electrically connected to it.

The low pass filter includes a tubular entry electrode partially inside of which is disposed a separately biasable band shaped grid electrode . A second grid of the dual screen is mounted on a flange on the front of the entry electrode and is electrically connected to it. The low pass filter further includes a can shaped electrode forming the part of the sidewall and part of the back wall of the low pass filter . A circular back electrode fits within an aperture in the can shaped electrode and includes a projection towards the detector . The back electrode the projection in back of the detector and the nose electrode in front of the detector may be commonly biased. All the electrodes in the low pass filter are coaxial about the central axis and are biased to optimize the reflected electrons within the passband and also to absorb those of higher energy.

The detector which may be in the form of two micro channel plates MCPs is covered by a wire mesh on the back of a detector housing which is supported by multiple legs on the back electrode . Electrical lines for the detector the detector housing and the nose electrode are led through the interior of the legs . The detector mesh may be held at about 5V to attract low energy electrons while the detector housing is held at the potential of the second flat grid . Only the electrons having energies less than about 1 eV when they pass through the flat grids pass through the wire mesh covering the detector . Other electrons within the low pass filter strike and are absorbed by the other surfaces.

Two potential problems of higher energy electrons striking the walls of the low pass filter is that they simply reflect rather than be absorbed or that they emit secondary electrons of lower energy which are then detected out of band. These problems can be reduced by a corrugated electrode structure illustrated in the cross sectional view of . An electrode or other wall of the filter is formed with teeth and intervening grooves on the side facing the interior of the filter and extending in the direction perpendicular to the illustration. The pitch and depth of the teeth and grooves is on the order of 1 mm for example 0.2 to 5 mm and an aspect ratio of the grooves of at least 1. Preferably the width of the grooves is greater than that of the teeth . Thereby when a primary electron strikes the sidewall of the groove its reflected trajectory will be towards other walls of the corrugated electrode or secondary electrons are likely to be emitted at angles such that they are absorbed by other walls within the grooves . That is neither the reflected primaries nor the secondaries are likely to reenter the body of the filter to be detected as low energy electrons. The wall structure is not limited to the illustrated rectangular corrugation. For example as illustrated in the cross sectional view of an electrode may be formed with a serrated edge having triangular protrusions preferably having the pitch and depth previously mentioned and preferably having acute apexes with angles of less than 90 and preferably less than 60 . Other shapes are possible. The corrugated texturing produced by the teeth and grooves or triangular protrusions result in a textured surface having portions of differing heights. The corrugated texturing is advantageously applied to the electrodes and within the low pass filter in an axisymmetric pattern about the central axis .

Returning to the incident electron trajectory is schematically illustrated as terminating either in a low energy reflected trajectory from the back of the high pass filter or a high energy trajectory absorbed by one of electrodes of the low pass filter or the detector housing . Only a passband trajectory incident on the mesh of the detector is detected.

The analyzer is preferably enclosed in a magnetic shroud to exclude any extraneous magnetic field from affecting the low energy electron trajectories. For similar reasons all screws and other analyzer parts should be non magnetic. The very low electron energies require that the analyzer be enclosed in a non magnetic e.g. aluminum vacuum housing maintained at a very low pressure for example no greater than 10ton. The sample may be inserted within the vacuum housing and then the entire vacuum housing pumped down to the requisite pressure. Alternatively an electron transmissive vacuum window described by Bryson et al in U.S. Pat. No. 6 803 570 may be interposed between the entry end of the analyzer specifically the aspheric grid and the sample held at a somewhat higher pressure.

An analyzer system illustrated in the cutaway orthographic view of includes a vacuum housing pumped by a turbo pump . A magnetic shield is interposed between the vacuum housing and an aluminum shell on which the analyzer electrodes are supported and accurately aligned. Multiple electrical vacuum feedthroughs provide biasing power to the electrodes and the detector and pass out the detected signal. The vacuum housing and magnetic shield as well as the analyzer itself are generally coaxial about the central axis. In the illustrated embodiment the sample is fixed to a pedestal inside the vacuum housing but the analyzer system may be adapted to other types of sample handling or external sample chambers. This embodiment is designed for x ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS so two X ray sources may irradiate the sample to produce photoelectrons whose energy is analyzed by the energy analyzer . The analyzer system may be adapted to other types of excitation sources such as high energy electron guns.

One embodiment of the electrical circuitry associated with the analyzer is schematically illustrated in . A computer controlled DC power supply operating for example between 0.3 and 1.6 kV controls the scan voltage delivered to the lens through a resistor chain. A variable resistor controls the focusing. A floating DC power supply for the high pass filter applies a fixed between the iris and the dual screen of either its 200V or 1000V outputs connected through a toggle to the output of the scan voltage supply so that electrons passing through the iris with a voltage less than 200 or 1000 eV cannot pass through the screen but higher energy electrons can. The toggle determines whether the analyzer is being operated with low or high resolution. The voltage across the high pass power supply is distributed to the electrodes of the high pass filter through another resistor chain. Another DC power supply for example operating at 6V controls the voltage applied to the low pass filter electrodes distributed by a third resistor chain and to the detector . Another toggle operating in tandem with the first toggle determines the resolution. The voltage supplied to the dual screen may be the same between the two screens or as will be explained with reference to differential voltages may be applied between them.

A high voltage DC detector power supply for example operating at 2 kV but referenced to the low pass power supply powers the photo multiplier tube. The electron signal is tapped from the line between the detector power supply and the micro channel plate detector and is led to a controller in the exterior through an AC coupling capacitor . The controller controls the scan of the lens power supply and hence the energy scan of the electron analysis and stores the electron current measured by the detector as a function of the scanning voltage to produce the desired energy spectrum. The controller is typically a computer and includes a memory which contains the control program and settings for the analyzer and which records the values of detected current in synchronism with the variation of the scan voltage of the lens power supply to thereby produce an energy spectrum of the charged particles. However other memory devices are possible to record the data including visual spectrum displays and strip recorders.

The dual screen is at a potential at which electrons in the passband have an energy between 0 and 1 eV as they enter the low pass filter . The high pass filter is advantageously operated at a fixed energy 1000 eV in the standard mode so the electrons entering the high pass filter are within a fixed energy band for example 1000 to 1001 eV. The desired energy translation is accomplished by tying the negative side of the negative side of the high pass power supply to the dual screen and the positive side to the iris .

As was previously briefly explained the low pass filter is not completely effective and for one reason or another high energy electrons may reach the detector . As illustrated in if a toggle is set to select a tie connection so that both grids of the dual screen are equally biased from an input terminal an electron beam passing through the dual screen consists of most of the electron above the energy Eat the lower edge of the passband. A measured transmission spectrum is represented in . However if the toggle selects a voltage supply to negatively bias the first grid with respect to second grid during a calibration mode to reflect energies within the passband so that an incident beam should be totally reflected. Nonetheless the combination of the detected desired lower energy electrons and the detected higher energy electrons for instance some that are not rejected in the low pass filter and secondary electrons emitted from the electrodes in the low pass filter produce a measured transmission spectrum during the calibration mode. Accordingly in a calibration mode the two grids are differentially biased and a electron spectrum is measured by scanning the voltages on the lens . The differential biasing which may be accomplished by applying different voltages to the exit electrode of the high pass filter and to the input electrode of the low pass filter may be somewhat more than the expected resolution of the analyzer that is about 1V or perhaps twice that. Other means of selective differential biasing are possible including separate power supplies or a selected element in a resistive chain. The measured spectrum is a background or noise spectrum. In the normal mode the grids are commonly biased. Values of the calibration spectrum are stored and then subtracted for example in the controller from corresponding values on the spectrum measured in the normal mode to produce a corrected spectrum.

The graphs of display the calculated transmission or throughput for the filters of an analyzer of the invention with the understanding that the lens accelerates or retards sample electrons of the desired energy to about 1000 eV and presents them to the sequentially arranged filters. The first high pass filter as shown in spectrum passes virtually no electrons up to an energy of 999 eV. Thereafter the transmission coefficient rapidly rises over about 1 eV to near unity. On the other hand the second low pass filter as shown in spectrum passes most electrons up to just above 999 eV. Thereafter the transmission coefficient falls over about 1 or 2 eV to nearly zero. The total transmission which is the product of the two spectra is shown in spectrum . The transmission FWHM passband is about 0.9 eV. However if the background spectrum is subtracted from the total spectrum the correct transmission shown by a corrected spectrum shows a passband of about 0.7 eV.

Although the invention has been developed as an electron analyzer with proper scaling the invention may be applied to energy analyzers of other charged particles such as positively charged ions.

The analyzer of the invention is capable of relatively high resolution in a small and lightweight structure. Nonetheless the sensitivity or throughput may be ten times greater than that of the conventional analyzer in a laboratory quality XPS. The coaxial design reduces the complexity and fabrication costs and also reduces the weight and size of the analyzer. Nonetheless the analyzer can be made relatively rugged.

