---

title: Information processing device, method of processing information, and program
abstract: An information processing device for providing a program selected on the basis of a predetermined theme among recorded programs and programs to be received to a user. A special program is generated by selecting a predetermined program on the basis of a predetermined theme such as ‘person of the today’, ‘hot drama’, among recorded programs and programs to be received to a user and the contents of the selected program is displayed on a screen as information of a recommendation program. The contents of the special program are changed according to preference of the user, a displaying time of the screen, and setting by the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566785&OS=08566785&RS=08566785
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08566785
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060105
---
The present invention contains subject matter related to Japanese Patent Application JP 2005 002999 filed in the Japanese Patent Office on Jan. 7 2005 the entire contents of which being incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to an information processing device a method of processing information and a program. More particularly the present invention relates to an information processing device capable of providing a program selected on the basis of a predetermined theme among recorded programs and programs to be received to a user a method of processing information and a program.

A digital recording device such as a hard disk recorder or the like having been sold in recent years has a function for selecting a desired program among recorded programs and presenting the selected program as a recommendation program to a user.

Further the digital recording device for example selects a desired program on the basis of the setting by the user or program information of the recorded program acquired from an EPG electronic program guide such that a program of a genre selected by the user or a program having a keyword selected by the user included in a title can be a recommendation program.

In addition the digital recording device may have a function for analyzing a preference of the user on the basis of an operation history or the like or automatically selecting the recommendation program without depending on the setting by the user. For example JP A 2004 355340 discloses a technology for matching a preference vector that indicates preferences of users and a program vector that indicates a feature of each program acquired from program information and for selecting a recommendation program on the basis of the matching result. JP A 2004 355340 also discloses a technology for displaying the selected recommendation program with a reason of recommendation.

However the digital recording device according to the related art can select the recommendation program and present it to the user but the digital recording device displays the title of the corresponding program with the reason of the recommendation by a list. Accordingly it is hard to induce interesting from the user and the user cannot easily check the reason why the corresponding program is the recommendation program.

The user may easily check the recommendation program by displaying the information of the recommendation program in a form of outlines of a plurality of special articles published in a magazine with photos like a cover or a list of the magazine not just a list of the title.

In addition colors of characters used for the titles of the programs displayed as a list are the same. Accordingly it is difficult to check or use the titles displayed on one screen.

An advantage of some examples of the invention is that it provides an information processing device capable of providing a program selected on the basis of a predetermined theme among recorded programs and programs to be received to a user a method of processing information and a program.

According to a first embodiment of the invention an information processing device includes a generating unit that generates a special program by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme and a display control unit that displays a special program screen on which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information of a program selected according to contents of each of the special programs are displayed.

Preferably the generating unit generates a special program on the basis of a theme selected from a plurality of themes prepared in advance.

Preferably the generating unit selects a desired theme on the basis of at least one of a preference of a user a time for displaying the special program screen or setting by the user.

Preferably the information processing device further includes a setting unit that sets priority to the special program generated by the generating unit.

Preferably the setting unit sets a priority to the special program on the basis of at least one of a preference of a user or a time for displaying the special program screen.

Preferably the display control unit displays the contents of the special program and information of the program in accordance with the priority set by the setting unit.

Preferably the display control unit displays the contents of the special program and the information of the program by changing fonts colors and sizes of characters in accordance with the priority set by the setting unit.

Preferably the display control unit displays a title of the corresponding program by using characters and displays a program image acquired from the data of the recorded program near the characters when displaying information of the recorded program as information of the corresponding program.

Preferably the display control unit displays a title of a program to be received next by using characters and displays a program image acquired from data of the recorded program among program series near the characters when displaying program information to be received next among the program series received with a predetermined cycle on the basis of a time for displaying the special program screen.

Preferably the generating unit changes a theme which is a source of the special program with a predetermined cycle and generates a special program.

Preferably the display control unit displays the special program screen when it is instructed to apply a power.

According to a second embodiment a method of processing information includes generating a special program by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme and displaying a special program screen on which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information of a program selected according to contents of each of the special programs are displayed.

According to a third embodiment of the invention a program which allows a computer to execute processes which includes generating a special program by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme and displaying a special program screen on which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information of a program selected according to contents of each of the special programs are displayed.

In the information processing device the method of processing information and the program the special program is generated by selecting the desired program on the basis of a predetermined theme among recorded programs and programs to be received and a special program screen for displaying contents of a plurality of different special programs and information of the program selected according to the contents of each of the special programs is displayed.

Hereinafter preferred embodiments of the invention will be described. The relationships between the invention to be described in the present specification and the embodiments of the invention are as follows. This description is for understanding that the embodiments supporting the invention described in the claims are included in the specification. Therefore even if there is any embodiment that is included in the description of embodiments of the invention but not described hereinbelow as one corresponding to the invention it does not mean that the embodiment is not an embodiment that is not corresponding to the above mentioned invention. On the contrary even if there is any embodiment that is included in the description of embodiments of the invention as one corresponding to the invention it does not mean that the embodiment is not corresponding to other invention.

Further it does not mean that the described embodiments are all of the invention. That is it is not deny other invention which is described in this specification but not disclosed in an application that is the invention which will be added in the future by a divisional application or an amendment.

The information processing device includes the generating unit for example a special program searching unit in which generates a special program by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme for example person of the today hot drama and the display control unit for example a display layout processing unit in which displays a special program screen for example a special program keyword table screen S in in which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information for example common special keyword in the program title of the program or the like of a program selected according to contents of each of special programs are displayed.

The information processing device further includes the setting unit for example a special program priority adding process unit in which sets priority for the special program generated by the generating unit.

An information processing method includes generating a special program for example step S in by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme for example person of the today hot drama and controlling display for example step S in of a special program screen for example a special program keyword table screen S in in which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information for example common special keyword in the program title of the program or the like of a program selected according to contents of each of special programs are displayed.

The program allows a computer to generate a special program for example step S in by selecting a predetermined program among recorded programs or programs to be received on the basis of a predetermined theme for example person of the today hot drama and control display for example step S in of a special program screen for example a special program keyword table screen S in in which contents of a plurality of different special programs and information for example common special keyword in the program title of the program or the like of a program selected according to contents of each of special programs are displayed.

Hereinafter the embodiments of the invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The information processing device is a digital recording device having a built in HDD hard disk drive . The information processing device acquires data of a program from broadcast waves received through an antenna not shown and stores the acquired program data in the HDD record the program .

The information processing device has a function for acquiring a broadcasted EPG electronic program guide or acquiring an EPG by downloading it from a predetermined server connected through the Internet. The EPG includes program information such as a title a genre a broadcasting date and time performers a synopsis or the like for each of programs.

The information processing device having these functions generates a special program by selecting a predetermined program corresponding to a predetermined theme on the basis of the theme such as for example person of the today or hot drama from recorded programs or programs to be received. Contents of the special program are displayed on the TV as information of a recommendation program. Each of program information may be referred to when selecting a program.

As described with reference to the drawing below the screen which displays the special program displays the contents of a plurality of different special programs such as person of the today or hot drama and displays the information such as a title or a keyword of the selected program hereinafter referred to as special program according to the contents of each of the special programs.

As such a program is selected on the basis of a predetermined theme. A selected predetermined program among the recorded program or the program to be received is displayed as the recommendation program. It is possible to collectively understand the outline at a glance as a list of a magazine as compared with a case of simply displaying a list of program titles by dynamically displaying the program. Accordingly a user can easily check the program with fun.

The contents of the special program can be changed according to a predetermined time for example a day a preference of the user or display time of the screen. Therefore the user can confirm a different special program according to the predetermined time whenever the contents of the special program are changed.

The operation of the information processing device which generates the special program and displays the contents thereof will now be described with reference to a flowchart. Hereinafter the screen on which the contents of the special program or the like are displayed is referred as to a special program keyword table screen.

Various operations using the information processing device is basically performed on a menu screen S by a remote controller.

The menu screen S displays icons selected when the special program keyword table screen display is instructed. When one icon is selected the menu screen S is changed to a special program keyword table screen S so as to be displayed on the TV as shown in front of an outline arrow A.

As shown in when a screen display button A or a power button B provided in the remote controller is pushed down the special program keyword table screen S may be displayed.

In a case that it takes a time to perform a process for playing the recorded program after the power is supplied when the power button B is pushed down the special program keyword table screen S is displayed on the TV so that the user can enjoy the time necessary for various operations without boredom. In addition even when the power button B is pushed down but the corresponding operation is not performed the special program keyword table screen S may be automatically displayed for a predetermined time and then a screen of a program which is being broadcasted may be displayed on the TV .

The special program keyword table screen S displays information such as contents of the special program a title of the special program or the like. The user can display special program introducing screens S to S 1 which introduce the respective special programs from the special program keyword table screen S. The special program introducing screens S to S 1 display details of the outlines of the respective special programs information of other programs related to the respective special programs or the like.

In addition if the special program to be introduced is a program to be broadcasted the special program introducing screens S to S 1 also display a record reservation button operated when setting a record reservation of the special program to be broadcasted. If the special program to be introduced is a recorded program the special program introducing screens S to S 1 also display a play button operated when starting playing the recorded special program.

When the record reservation button is operated as shown in front of an outline arrow A the special program introducing screens S to S 1 changes to a reservation screen S in the TV . The user can confirm detailed information of the record reservation setting such as a time to start to record the special program a broadcasting channel or the like from the reservation screen S .

When the play button is operated as shown in front of the outline arrow A the special program introducing screens S to S 1 change to a play screen S in the TV . The user can watch the recorded special program by the display of the play screen S .

In addition the special program keyword table screen S may display ranking of keywords extracted from the program information of the recorded program or the program to be broadcasted as one of the special programs. If the user instructs to display the ranking of the keywords the special program keyword table screen S changes to a keyword ranking screen S in the TV.

If the user instructs to display ranking of a category different from the category being displayed in the keyword ranking screen S as shown in front of an outline arrow A the keyword ranking screen S changes to anther category ranking screen S in the TV .

On the other hand if a predetermined keyword is selected from the keywords included in the ranking as shown in front of the outline arrow A the keyword ranking screen S changes to a program list screen S which shows a program list related to the selected keyword in the TV .

A setting screen for setting each of operations may be displayed by performing a predetermined operation by instructing an option at the special program keyword table screen S.

If the option is instructed as shown in front of an outline arrow A the special program keyword table screen S changes to a setting screen S special program keyword setting screen or a setting screen S special program keyword setting screen in TV . For example the user can select a genre of a desired program to put on the special program keyword table screen S from the setting screen S as the special program. The user can also select a watching mode from the setting screen S. As described below the contents of the special program being displayed on the special program keyword table screen S may be properly changed by the watching mode set by the user.

In the menu screen S as shown by a dot line in category icons to displaying each of categories are arranged in a horizontal direction of the screen. In addition as shown by a dot line in content icons video contents icons to displaying contents included in the predetermined categories selected by the user are arranged in a vertical direction so as to cross an arrangement direction of the category icons to . In addition dot lines of FIGS. and are for convenience of the description and not actually shown in the menu screen S.

In the example of the category icon which displays a photo category the category icon which displays a music category the category icon which displays a video category the category icon which displays a television category and the category icon which displays a game category are displayed in a horizontal direction on the screen.

That is the information processing device has a photo function selected when playing an image still image loaded from a digital camera or the like a music function selected when playing the music stored in built in HDD and a game function selected when operating a game in addition to a video function selected when performing an operation such as playing a recorded program or the like corresponding to a record of a program and a television function selected when watching a program being broadcasted.

In if the user selects the video the content icons to which display video contents included in the video are displayed in a vertical direction.

An icon currently selected among the content icons to is the content icon selected when displaying the special program keyword table screen. A character special program keyword is displayed near the content icon .

Basically the user can select a desired category by operating a remote controller in a horizontal direction left and right buttons in the menu screen S and can select desired contents included in the selected category by operating the remote controller in a vertical direction up and down buttons .

According to the operation of the user all of the category icons to category icons to and other category icons displaying categories not shown in and the content icons to content icons to and other content icons not shown in are moved and displayed as one group.

For example in a state of in which the video is selected if the user pushes a left button once the category icons to moves to the right as one group a category icon is displayed in the position where the category icon is displayed now and the category icon will be displayed in the position where the category icon is displayed.

In the same manner the category icon will be displayed in the position where the category icon is displayed and the category icon will be displayed in a position where the category icon is displayed. In the position where the category icon is displayed now another category icon which is arranged at the left side of the category icon and not shown in will be displayed.

Accordingly the music is selected instead of the video and the content icons displaying audio contents included in the music are aligned and displayed in a vertical direction.

On the other hand if the user pushes a right button once in the state of the category icons to move to the left side as one group which is opposite to the case where the user pushes a left button and the television is selected.

In addition for example in the state of where the content icons to are displayed when the user pushes an upward button once all of the content icons to move upward. In the position where the content icon is displayed now the content icon will be displayed and in the position where the content icon is displayed now the content icon will be displayed.

In the same way in the position where the content icon is displayed now the content icon will be displayed and in the position where the content icon is displayed now a content icon which is arranged right below the category icon and not shown in will be displayed.

Accordingly the state that the content icon is selected changes to the state that the content icon is selected. At this time a title of the video contents being displayed by the content icon will be displayed near the content icon .

In contrast if the user pushes the downward button once in the state of in opposition to the case pushing the upward button all of the content icons to move to a downward direction and the content icon is selected.

In this way by selecting the desired category and contents and operating a decision button in the remote controller the user can display a menu sub menu of operation capable of being performed so as to correspond to the selected contents. The user can play copy edit delete or the like the selected contents from the sub menu displayed when the user selected the contents.

The special program keyword table screen S as shown by the dot line has a special program keyword display region and a staple special display region . The special program keyword display region displays contents and information of the special program and the staple special display region displays contents of the staple special program.

In an example of the special program keyword display region displays contents of four special programs such as person of the today catch up movie hot drama and special .

The contents of the special program as described above are selected according to the preference of the user the display time of the special program keyword table screen S setting by the user or the like. For example if the user likes a movie or a drama the catch up movie and the hot drama are selected. In a season when a lot of special programs such as programs of two hours or three hours are broadcasted in a predetermined season for example at the end of the year the special is selected.

In addition an order of the respective special programs in the special program keyword table screen S is in accordance with a high priority set by a preference of the user corresponding to each of the special programs.

In Yukiko Nakata special is displayed as the special program of person of the today . Yukiko Nakata is a name of a person who is the most famous in the players of the recorded program and the players of the program to be broadcasted.

The user selects a special of the person of the today by operating the remote controller or the like and may check the details of the special program that is the details of the Yukiko Nakata special in . When the user selects the person of the today the special program keyword table screen S changes to a screen special program introducing screen which shows a program list that the Yukiko Nakata appears on the TV .

The special of catch up movie is displayed under the special of the person of the today and die of boredom movie is displayed as a title of the special program selected according to contents of the special. The outline of the program forget shoes in a high rise building or drop down is displayed under the title. Accordingly the user can understand the outline with the contents or the title of the special.

For example the die of boredom is a recorded program which includes information indicating that the program is a movie in the program information. Also the die of boredom is a movie selected on the basis of the preference of the user among the programs to be received. Further the outline of the program is displayed on the basis of the program information.

The user can check the details of the die of the boredom by selecting catch up movie special from this display display a special program introducing screen .

The hot drama is displayed under the catch up movie special and a married couple drama is displayed as a title of the special program selected according to the contents of the special program. The outline of the program real state of the married couple . . . is displayed under the title.

The married couple for example is a drama selected from programs whose records are finished. In the recorded program a thumbnail showing one scene of the corresponding program is displayed near characters indicating the title or the outline of the program. The thumbnail is displayed on the basis of data acquired from data of the recorded program. The data is stored in the HDD.

In a case in which the program presented to the user as the special program is not the recorded program but the program reserved so as to be recorded repeatedly at predetermined time of the predetermined day a thumbnail displaying one scene of the program is displayed near the character indicating the title or the outline of the program as information of the program to be received next in the same manner as the program to be received next on the basis of a display time of the special program keyword table screen S. At this time for example data for displaying the thumbnail is acquired from the previously received data of the same program previously recorded according to a repeated reservation.

As such the user can immediately understand the contents of the program by displaying the thumbnail as well as the characters.

Through theses displays the user can understand the details of the married couple by selecting the hot drama special.

The special is displayed under the hot drama special and NHK special is a wife a witch is displayed as a title of the special program selected according to the contents of the special. The outline of the program To a wife who rescues a factory just before closing . . . is displayed under the title.

The NHK special is a wife a witch is for example a recorded program including information indicating that the program is a special program in the program information or a special program selected on the basis of the preference of the user or the like from the programs to be received.

The staple special display region provided under the special program keyword display region displaying the information displays two special contents such as keyword ranking and music program special . The two specials are always displayed on the special program keyword table screen S without updating the contents according to the preference of the user or the like.

The user can display the keyword ranking screen keyword ranking screen S of of the keywords extracted from the program information of the recorded program and the program to be received by selecting the special keyword ranking . In addition the user can display a program list screen including information which indicates that the genre of this program is the music in the program information by selecting the music program special .

The contents of the staple special displayed in the staple special display region may be selected by a user instead of the two special contents of .

The special program introducing screen S has a region and a region . The region displays information of the special program. The region displays information of a program related to the special program.

In the example of the region displays the outline of the special program married couple and the thumbnail which is the same as the thumbnail displayed in the special program keyword table screen S of .

In addition the region displays a play button operated when the play of the married couple is instructed. As described above the special program married couple displayed in the region of is a recorded program. The user can watch the married couple that is the recorded program by operating the play button display the play screen S of .

On the other hand the region displays an outline and a transmitting time of a next transmitting part of the married couple next December 1 transmitting part on the basis of a displaying time of the special program keyword table screen S as advance information of a program related to the special program. In this example the married couple is a series drama being transmitted at a predetermined time of a predetermined day.

In addition the region displays a record reservation button operated when setting a record reservation for the next transmitting part. The user can set the record reservation for the next transmitting part and check the details of the setting display the reservation screen S of by operating the record reservation button .

The category of the ranking displayed on the keyword ranking screen S of is a name of person . There are Yukiko Nakata Santoshi Wahuji and the like in the ranking. The names in the ranking for example indicate the people who appear on many programs among the players of the recorded program and the program to be received.

The user selects a predetermined name from the names of people in the ranking such that the user can display a list program list screen S of of the programs in which the corresponding person appears.

In the example of the category of the ranking to be displayed can be changed from the names of people to other categories such as organization name name of place or the like. For example when the organization name is selected as a category of the ranking instead of the keyword ranking screen S the ranking of the organization name another category ranking screen S of is displayed on the TV .

The setting screen S displays genres of the programs such as drama variety documentary and soon. The user can select a desired program genre to want to include it in the special program keyword table screen S as a special program from the above genres. In the genres surrounded by solid lines indicate genres selected by the user. The genres surrounded by dot lines are genres not selected by the user.

When the drama is selected at the setting screen S for example as shown in the special program of the hot drama is included in the special program keyword table screen S with high probability.

The setting screen S displays four watching modes such as collectively reserve reserve everyday watch everyday and collectively watch and the user can select a desired watching mode from the above four watching modes. In the watching mode surrounded by solid lines indicates a watching mode selected by the user and the watching modes surrounded by dot lines indicate watching modes not selected by the user.

For example when the collectively reserve is selected a program to be broadcasted as the special program is selected by focusing on programs such as a program which will be over next week that comparatively have an enough time until next broadcasting is selected on the basis of a display time of the special program keyword table screen S.

For example when the reserve everyday is selected a program to be broadcasted as the special program is selected by focusing on only programs such as a program which will be over next day that comparatively have not an enough time until next broadcasting is selected on the basis of a display time of the special program keyword table screen S.

When the watch everyday is selected a recorded program as the special program is selected by focusing on only the programs that a time does not elapse after finishing the record such as a program which had been recorded from one day before to now display time in the special program keyword table screen S on the basis of a display time of the special program keyword table screen S.

When the collectively watch is selected a recorded program as the special program is selected by focusing on the programs that a time elapses after finishing the record such as a program which had been recorded from one week before to now display time of the special program keyword table screen S on the basis of a display time of the special program keyword table screen S.

Accordingly the user can perform setting so as to select the special program from the programs that are proper to the watching mode of the user.

Next configurations of the information processing device for displaying the screens will be described.

A CPU central processing unit executes a program stored in a ROM read only memory and a program loaded in a RAM random access memory through an HDD I F and a bus from an HDD . For example the CPU controls the operation of each unit according to an instruction command from a remote controller from the user received by a U I control unit .

A tuner receives a broadcasting signal from an antenna not shown and outputs the received broadcasting signal to a demodulator in accordance with the control of the CPU .

The demodulator demodulates the received broadcasting signal supplied from the tuner and outputs a transport stream broadcasted from a predetermined channel to a TS decoder .

The TS decoder extracts a predetermined stream from the transport stream supplied from the demodulator by using a RAM and outputs packets which form the extracted stream to the bus or an AV decoder in accordance with the control of the CPU . The packets program data supplied to the bus for example are supplied and recorded to the HDD through the HDD I F . In addition the EPG acquired by the TS decoder is properly supplied to and recorded in the HDD .

The AV decoder decodes video data video packet and audio data audio packet supplied from the TS decoder using a RAM and outputs a decoded audio signal to a MUX and a decoded video signal to the MUX respectively.

The MUX outputs a voice corresponding to the audio signal supplied from the AV decoder from a speaker B of the TV .

The MUX displays predetermined images screens on a display A of the TV on the basis of the video signal supplied from the AV decoder and a video signal OSD on screen display signal supplied from a display controller .

The display controller generates a video signal so as to display a screen such as the special program keyword table screen S of on a display B and outputs the generated video signal to the MUX in accordance with the control of the CPU .

An SIO serial I O controller accesses a web server through the Internet by controlling a fast modem and downloads the EPG or the like according to necessity. The downloaded EPG is supplied to and stored in the HDD .

An IEEE institute of electrical and electronics engineers 1394 I F fetches video data from a video camera connected through an IEEE1394 cable.

An HDD I F stores the data supplied through the bus in the HDD and supplies the data stored in the HDD to each unit through the bus .

A card I F stores data supplied through the bus in a memory card mounted in a slot or reads and outputs the data stored in the memory card to the bus .

The information processing device includes an original information generation process unit an information storage unit and a screen generating display process unit .

The original information generation process unit generates information used when the screen generating display process unit displays the special program keyword table screen and stores the generated information in a predetermined storage unit in the information storage unit and a database by weighting each information stored in the information storage unit .

The information storage unit stores each of various information such as program information record reservation information set by the user a thumbnail acquired from data of a recorded program or the like.

The screen generating display process unit generates data in order to display the special program keyword table screen by using the information stored in the information storage unit and display the special program keyword table screen on the TV on the basis of the generated data.

A keyword dictionary storage unit stores a dictionary of words which may be keywords such as a name of a player at a program and a genre name of the program.

An exclusion keyword dictionary storage unit stores a dictionary for excluding the words which can not be used in order to prevent words which can not be used when selecting the special program or the like from being extracted as keywords.

A priority keyword dictionary storage unit stores a dictionary of words treated as a keyword having higher priority than other words.

A keyword database stores keywords extracted by a keyword extracting unit . The keywords stored in the keyword database are referred to by the screen generating display process unit when generating ranking of the keywords.

The keyword database stores a table where keyword IDs keyword spelling keyword keyword attribute name of person name of place name of organization and the like and program information of an extracting source of keywords information such as a genre of a program a broadcasting station a broadcasting time a new program identification information of the final episode the number of characters of program explanation and the like are associated with each other.

A broadcast expected program information database stores program information included in the EPG supplied from a program information receiving unit .

A recorded program information database stores the program information of the recorded program. When a program is recorded the user program operation process unit reads from the broadcast expected program information database and supplies the program information of the corresponding program.

A reserved program information database stores program information of the program that the record reservation is set. When the record reservation is set for a program the user program operation process unit reads and supplies the program information of the corresponding program from the broadcast expected program information database .

In the broadcast expected program information database the recorded program information database and the reserved program information database table corresponding to the program information such as a program ID a program name a genre a broadcasting station a broadcasting time a new program identification information of the final episode the number of characters of program explanation outline or the like is stored.

An operating history storage unit stores operating history of the user supplied from an operating history process unit . The operating history storage unit stores for example information such as program information of the program recorded according to the operation of the user.

A user special setting storage unit stores for example the setting by the user such as a genre set in the setting screen S of .

A user display setting storage unit stores for example the watching mode of the user set in the setting screen S of .

An external special information storage unit stores information of the special program from the external. The information of the special program is acquired through a broadcasting wave or downloaded from the web server of . For example in the end of the year information which instructs to generate special programs such as a two hour program a three hour program or the like is acquired as information of the special program from the external. As such the information processing device acquires information such as the information of the special program that is not prepared in advanced from the external according to the necessity.

The keyword extracting unit refers to the dictionaries stored in the keyword dictionary storage unit the exclusion keyword dictionary storage unit and the priority keyword dictionary storage unit . Further the keyword extracting unit extracts a word which may be a keyword by selecting the special program or the like from the words included in the program information stored in the broadcast expected program information database . The keyword extracting unit stores the extracted word in a keyword database with the program information from which the word is extracted.

The operating history process unit refers to the operation contents of the user on the basis of the program information stored in the recorded program information database and the reserved program information database . Further the operating history process unit stores information which indicates the operation contents of the user such as information which indicates which program is recorded in the operating history storage unit as the operation history.

A preference information process unit analyzes the preference of the user on the basis of the operating history stored in the operating history storage unit and the setting stored in a user special setting storage unit and outputs information indicating the preference of the user to a preference information transmitting unit .

An external special program information receiving unit acquires the special program information from the external through the broadcasting wave or by downloading from the web server and outputs the acquired special program information to an external special program information process unit .

The external special program information process unit stores the special program information supplied from the external special program information receiving unit in an external special information storage unit .

The preference information transmitting unit transmits the preference information of the user for example to the web server of .

A user setting process unit stores the setting of the user in the user special setting storage unit or the user display setting storage unit on the basis of the information supplied from a set GUI process unit . The set GUI process unit receives the setting of the user performed at the screen shown in or and outputs information indicating the received set content to the user setting process unit .

A program information receiving unit acquires the EPG and stores the program information included in the EPG in the broadcast expected program information database through the broadcasting wave or by downloading from the web server .

When the user records the program the user program operation process unit reads the program information of the corresponding program from the broadcast expected program information database and stores the read program information in the recorded program information database . When the user reserves to record a program the user program operation process unit reads the program information of the corresponding program from the broadcast expected program information database and stores the read program information in the reserved program information database . Further the user program operation process unit outputs the program information read from the broadcast expected program information database to a program operation process unit .

A user program operation UI process unit checks the operation contents by the user on the basis of the command which is transmitted from the remote controller and received in the U I control unit of and outputs information indicating the operation contents to the user program operation process unit .

The program operation process unit outputs the program information supplied from the user program operation process unit to a thumbnail extracting registering unit .

The thumbnail extracting registering unit identifies the recorded program and the record reserved program and acquires the thumbnail of the identified program from the recorded program data record image stream on the basis of the program information supplied from the program operation process unit . The thumbnail acquired by the thumbnail extracting registering unit is registered in a thumbnail database and used for being displayed in the special program keyword table screen.

The set GUI process unit receives the setting by the user performed on the setting screen shown in or and outputs information indicating the received setting contents to the user setting process unit .

A keyword ranking condition storage unit stores the keyword ranking conditions referred to when generating the keyword ranking.

According to the keyword ranking conditions for example it is instructed to generate the keyword ranking for the name of person or the keyword ranking for the name of place. In addition when generating the ranking of the name of person in trend for example it is instructed to generate the keyword rank according to the name of the person who has a large number of appearing frequency in the programs as a player or the like by comparing it with the number acquired in the last week.

A special keyword searching condition storage unit stores a special keyword searching condition referred to when searching the special program keyword for example a keyword Yukiko Nakata included in the special program person of the today in . The special keyword searching condition instructs for example to search words corresponding to the name of person or words corresponding to the name of place.

A priority added special keyword condition storage unit stores the priority added special keyword condition referred to when setting up the priority to the special keyword. According to the priority added special keyword condition a score added to the special keyword searched by being matched with the special keyword searching condition is determined. The score indicates the priority of each of the special keywords and the keyword having the highest priority for example Yukiko Nakata in is selected as the special keyword.

A special program searching condition storage unit stores the special program searching condition referred to for searching the special program.

For example the special program searching condition indicates to search the program whose genre is the drama . In addition when generating a special program for a new program program started to be newly broadcasted it is instructed to search a program including the program information indicating that the program is a new program. When generating a Christmas special it is instructed to search a program including words such as Christmas Santa or present in the outline of the corresponding program.

An expansion dictionary storage unit stores an expansion dictionary referred to when searching the special program. The expansion dictionary includes supporting words when the words having the same meaning are written by different or wrong form for example Kida Tatsuya is written by a different name Kida Tatuya a common name Kidataku a miswriting Kida Takuya or an organization name Kida Quintet .

A priority added special program condition storage unit stores the priority added special program condition referred to when setting up the priority of the special program. According to the priority added special program condition a score added to the program searched by being matched with the special program searching condition is determined. The determined score indicates the priority of each of the special programs and the special program having the highest priority for example the married couple in is selected as the special program displayed on the special program keyword table screen.

A priority added special program condition storage unit stores the priority added special program condition referred to when setting up the priority of the special.

For example when the time displayed in the special program keyword table screen is December first to twenty fifth according to the priority added special program condition it is instructed that the Christmas special has the highest priority. When it is the time to change the program organization it is instructed that the new program has the highest priority.

A display screen storage unit stores data of the special program keyword table screen generated by a display layout process unit .

A keyword ranking operating unit generates the keyword ranking by arranging the keyword according to the number of the keyword stored in the keyword database on the basis of the keyword ranking condition stored in the keyword ranking condition storage unit .

For example when it is instructed to generate the keyword ranking by arranging names of the players according to the number of organizations registered as the player by the keyword ranking condition the ranking is generated as shown in . The rank generated by the keyword ranking operating unit is output to a special priority adding process unit .

A special keyword searching unit searches a word matched with a special keyword searching condition stored in the special keyword searching condition storage unit from the keyword word stored in the keyword database and the word included in the program information stored in the broadcast expected program information database the recorded program information database or the reserved program information database .

When it is instructed to search a word of the name of person according to the special keyword searching condition for example Yukiko Nakata Takuya Kimura or the like whose attribute of the keyword is the name of the person are acquired as the special keywords. In addition when it is instructed to search a word of the name of place according to the special keyword searching condition for example Kyoto Iraq North Korea or the like whose attribute of the keyword is the name of the place are acquired as the special keywords. When it is instructed to search a word of the name of organization according to the special keyword searching condition for example Sony or the like whose attribute of the keyword is the name of the organization is acquired as the special keyword.

The special keyword acquired by a special keyword searching unit is output to a special keyword priority adding process unit .

The special keyword priority adding process unit adds a score to the special keyword supplied from the special keyword searching unit on the basis of the priority added special keyword condition stored in the priority added special keyword condition storage unit user preference information supplied from a preference information process unit and a displaying date and time displaying time of the special program keyword table screen supplied from a display date and time acquiring unit .

For example when the preference information supplied from the preference information process unit instructs that the user sets the drama as a genre of the special program being displayed in the special program keyword table screen a score such as ten grades nine grades eight grades . . . is added according to a large number of special keywords extracted from the program information of the corresponding program of the drama by the priority added special keyword condition.

In addition according to the priority added special keyword condition on the basis of the displaying day and time of the special program keyword table screen the score increases ten grades to the special keyword extracted from the program information of the program broadcasted for the last one day or the special keyword extracted from the program information of the program to be broadcasted in one day to come. Whenever one day is getting away from the displaying day and time of the special program keyword table screen on the basis of the displaying day and time of the special program keyword table screen the score decreases two grades and the decreased score is added to the special keyword extracted from the program information of the corresponding program according to the priority added special keyword condition.

The special keyword priority adding process unit outputs the score added special keyword to the special priority adding process unit .

A special program searching unit refers to the expansion dictionary stored in the expansion dictionary storage unit according to the necessity and searches the program matched with the special program searching condition stored in the special program searching condition storage unit from the information stored in the broadcast expected program information database the recorded program information database and the reserved program information database .

For example when the special program searching condition instructs to search the program whose genre is the drama the special program searching unit acquires a program whose genre is the drama as the special program from the programs stored in the broadcast expected program information database the recorded program information database and the reserved program information database .

The program information of the special program acquired by the special program searching unit is output to a special program priority adding process unit .

The special program priority adding process unit adds the score to the special program acquired by the special program searching unit on the basis of the priority added special program condition stored in the priority added special program condition storage unit the user preference information supplied from the preference information process unit and a displaying date and time of the special program keyword table screen supplied from the display date and time acquiring unit .

For example when the number of the characters of the outline of the program is equal to or greater than ten the priority added special program condition instructs to increase the score of ten grades to the special program. When the number of the characters of the outline of the program is equal to or smaller than ten the priority added special program condition instructs to increase the score of zero grades to the special program.

In addition in the case in which the broadcast starting time of the program is from 18 00 to 22 00 the score is increased by ten grades and in the case in which the broadcast starting time of the program is from 07 00 to 18 00 or from 22 00 to 25 00 the score is increased by five grades according to the instruction of the priority added special program condition.

The special program priority adding process unit outputs scored added information of the each of the special programs to the special priority adding process unit .

The preference information process unit analyzes the preference of the user on the basis of the operating history stored in the operating history storage unit the setup by the user stored in the user special program set up storage unit and the information of the special program from the external stored in the external special information storage unit . The preference information process unit outputs the information indicating the preference of the user to the special keyword priority adding process unit the special program priority adding process unit and the special priority adding process unit .

The display date and time acquiring unit outputs the date and time for displaying the special program keyword table screen to the special keyword priority adding process unit the special program priority adding process unit and the special priority adding process unit .

The special priority adding process unit refers to the score added to each of the special keywords supplied from the special keyword priority adding process unit and the score added to each of the special programs supplied from the special program priority adding process unit and selects the predetermined number of special keywords to which higher score is added and the special of the special program.

For example when the higher score is added to Yukiko Nakata which is a special keyword supplied from the special keyword priority adding process unit the special of person of the today which is the special of the special keyword is selected as the special to be displayed on the special program keyword table screen. In addition when the higher score is added to married couple which is a special program supplied from the special program priority adding process unit the special of drama special which is the special of the program is selected as the special to be displayed on the special program keyword table screen special program keyword display region .

That is the information processing device has a plurality of conditions arranged in advance in order to generate the special of the program and selects the special to be displayed on the special program keyword table screen from the plurality of conditions.

Further the special priority adding process unit selects a priority added special condition stored in the priority added special program condition storage unit or a special according to the setting stored in the user display setting storage unit . As described above for example when the displaying time in the special program keyword table screen is from December first to twenty fifth the priority added special program condition instructs to set Christmas special to have the highest priority and select the Christmas special as a special to be displayed on the special program keyword table screen.

The special selected by the special priority adding process unit and the information indicating the scores of each of the specials scores added to the special keyword and the special program are output to the display layout process unit . In addition the information for displaying the special of the staple program such as the information of the keyword ranking acquired by the keyword ranking operating unit or the like is output from the special priority adding process unit to the display layout process unit .

The display layout process unit acquires the information of the special program selected by the special priority adding process unit from the keyword database or the thumbnail database and determines the display layout of each of the specials on the basis of the score of the special supplied from the special priority adding process unit while including the information of the staple program.

For example in order that the special having the high score is distinguished fonts of the characters sizes of the characters character style of bold italic or the like and color and alignment of the characters are determined for displaying the contents of the special program the title of the special program or the like and screen data is generated so as to display the special program keyword table screen.

The screen data generated by the display layout process unit is supplied to and stored in the display screen storage unit . The set GUI process unit displays the special program keyword table screen on the basis of the screen data stored in the display screen storage unit .

First the screen display process of the information processing device will be described with reference to a flowchart illustrated in .

In step S the CPU determines whether the program information EPG is being acquired or not and waits until the EPG is not being acquired. The program information is repeatedly acquired with a predetermined cycle even when the power is turned off waiting state . The program information receiving unit see of the original information generation process unit stores the acquired program information in the broadcast expected program information database .

In step S when the CPU determines that the program information EPG is not being acquired the process proceeds to step S and determines whether it is instructed to turn on the power supplying the power and releasing a wait state driven by the low power .

For example when a power button of the remote controller is pushed and it is determined that it is instructed to turn on the power in step S the CPU proceeds to step S so as to generate the screen data. The details of the screen data generating process will be described with reference to a flowchart of .

When the screen data is generated in step S the CPU the set GUI process unit of the screen generating display process unit see displays the special program keyword table screen on the TV and repeatedly performs the processes from step S.

In contrast in step S when it is determined that it is not instructed to turn on the power the process proceeds to step S and the CPU determines whether it is selected to call the special program keyword table screen whether the operation for displaying the special program keyword table screen is performed on the menu screen S .

When it is determined that it is selected to call the special program keyword table screen in step S the process proceeds to step S and the CPU performs the screen data generating process. In addition when it is determined that it is not selected to call the special program keyword table screen in step S the process proceeds to step S and the CPU performs the processes from step S.

According to the above processes when the user performs predetermined operations such as turning on the power or selecting icons in the menu screen S the screen data is generated and the special program keyword table screen is displayed on the basis of the generated screen data.

Next other screen display process of the information processing device will be described with reference to a flowchart of .

In this process the screen data is previously generated when it is instructed to turn on the power by the user or it is instructed to display the special program keyword table screen from the menu screen S but the screen data is generated when the new program information is acquired or the setting by the user is updated that is before the user instructs to generate the screen data.

In step S the CPU determines whether the program information is being acquired and waits until the CPU determines that the program information is not being acquired.

In step S when the CPU determines that the program information is not being acquired the process proceeds to step S and the CPU determines whether the new program information is acquired or not.

In step S when the CPU determines that the new program information is acquired the process proceeds to step S and the CPU generates the screen data. The details of the screen data generating process will be described with reference to a flowchart of . In step S after the screen data generating process is performed the process returns to step S and the processes after step S are repeatedly performed.

On the other hand in step S if CPU determines that the new program information is not acquired the process proceeds to step S and the CPU determines whether it is instructed to turn on the power or not.

In step S if the CPU determines that it is instructed to turn on the power the process proceeds to step S and the CPU displays the special program keyword table screen on the TV on the basis of the screen data generated in advance. The process returns to step S and the processes after step S are repeatedly performed.

In step S if the CPU determines that it is not instructed to turn on the power the process proceeds to step S and the CPU determines whether the user changes the setting in the screen shown in or .

In step S if the CPU determines that the user changes the setting the process proceeds to step S and the CPU performs a screen data generating process according to the changed setting.

In step S if the CPU determines that the user does not change the setting the process proceeds to step S and the CPU determines whether it is selected to call the special program keyword table screen.

In step S if the CPU determines whether it is not selected to call the special program keyword table screen the processes after step S are repeatedly performed. On the other hand if the CPU determines whether it is selected to call the special program keyword table screen the processes proceeds to step S and the CPU displays the special program keyword table screen on the TV on the basis of the generated screen data.

As described above it is possible to generate the screen data with the newest program information included in the information processing device at that time or the newest contents set by the user by generating the screen data when the new program information is acquired or the user changes the setting.

Next the screen data generating process performed at step S of or step S of will be described with reference to a flowchart of .

In step S the special keyword searching unit see of a screen generating display process unit performs the special keyword searching process so as to search the word matched with the special keyword searching condition stored in the special keyword searching condition storage unit and outputs the acquired special keyword to the special keyword priority adding process unit .

In step S the special keyword priority adding process unit performs a special keyword condition special keyword priority adding process which adds the score to the special keyword acquired by the special keyword searching unit and outputs the score added special keyword to the special priority adding process unit .

In step S the special program searching unit performs a special program searching process so as to search the program matched with the special program searching condition stored in the special program searching condition storage unit and outputs the acquired program information of the special program to the special program priority adding process unit .

In step S the special program priority adding process unit performs a special program searching condition special program priority adding process so as to add the score to the special program acquired by the special program searching unit and outputs the score added special program to the special priority adding process unit .

In step S the keyword ranking operating unit performs a keyword ranking generating process so as to generate the keyword ranking on the basis of the keyword ranking condition stored in the keyword ranking condition storage unit and outputs the generated keyword ranking information to the special priority adding process unit .

In step S the special priority adding process unit properly refers to the priority added special condition stored in the priority added special program condition storage unit and performs the priority added special process so as to add the priority to each of the specials select a special displayed on the special program keyword table screen on the basis of the score added on the special keyword supplied from the special keyword priority adding process unit and the score added to the special program supplied from the special program priority adding process unit . The special selected by the special priority adding process unit and the information which indicates the scores each of the corresponding specials are output to the display layout process unit .

In step S the display layout process unit generates the screen data by determining the layout of the special selected by the special priority adding process unit . In step S the display layout process unit stores the generated screen data display layout in the display screen storage unit .

After step S the process returns to step S of FIG. and step of and the processes after step S and step S are performed.

Until now it has been described that the special program keyword table screen shown in is displayed by the information processing device which is a digital recording medium but the special program keyword table screen may be displayed by a device which has not a recording function for example a TV receiver or the like. In this case the broadcast expected program is selected as a special program and the selected information of the corresponding program is displayed on the special program keyword table screen on the basis of the program information included in the EPG.

In addition the program included in the special programs is not limited to the broadcasting program and the program may be the contents program downloaded through the network or the contents capable of being watched by the streaming.

Further until now the special program is selected from the recorded program or the broadcast expected program and the special keyword is selected from the selected program but the special program may be selected from the program broadcasted in the past or the program information.

In the case in which the series of processes are executed by the software a program forming the software is installed in a computer in which dedicated hardware is installed or the program consists of the software is installed in for example a general personal computer which can execute each of functions by installing programs through the network or a recording medium.

The recording medium may be configured not only by the card memory shown in recording a program distributed to supply the program to user a magnetic disk including a flexible disk an optical disk CD ROM compact disk read only memory a DVD including digital versatile disk a magneto optical disk including MD registered trademark mini disk or the like in addition to the body of the device but also by the ROM or HDD which stores a program supplied from the user while being built in the body of the device.

In the present specification each of the processes may be processed according to the written order and may be processed not the written order but in parallel or individually.

According to the embodiments of the invention it is possible to provide the program selected on the basis of the predetermined theme.

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications combinations sub combinations and alterations may occur depending on design requirements and other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

