---

title: Method and system for providing integration theme pack service
abstract: Disclosed is a method and system for providing an integration theme pack service in which, if a user receives an integration theme pack content from a content-providing server through a mobile communication terminal, the mobile communication terminal changes a background screen image into the integration theme pack content, employs the integration theme pack content as a background picture, and generates and displays a user interface having a menu configuration image formed on the integration theme pack content in a dual transparent structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933262&OS=07933262&RS=07933262
owner: SK Telecom Co., Ltd.
number: 07933262
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060907
---
This application is the National Phase application of International Application No. PCT KR2006 003562 filed Sep. 7 2006 which designates the United States and was published in English. This application in its entirety is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a method and a system for providing an integration theme pack service. Specifically the present invention relates to a method and system for providing an integration theme pack service in which if a user receives an integration theme pack content from a content providing server through a mobile communication terminal the mobile communication terminal changes a background screen image into the integration theme pack content employs the integration theme pack content as a background picture and generates and displays a user interface having a menu configuration image formed on the integration theme pack content in a dual transparent structure.

Information communication technology in which the Internet and mobile communication are the representative has changed the life pattern of modern people. Personal Computers capable of accessing the Internet have been spread to most homes schools and offices so that information acquisition through web sites product purchase through E commerce news exchange through E mail etc. have been implemented.

Only a few years ago people could use only a mobile communication service mainly for voice communication by using a mobile communication terminal. However recently a wireless Internet service has emerged which can provide a mobile communication terminal with a data communication service using the Internet.

With the development of a mobile communication service as described above a mobile communication terminal has also evolved into a mobile communication terminal equipped with various devices such as camcorders cameras and MP3 players from an early cellular phone mainly for voice communication. As a mobile communication terminal has various devices therein the display device of the mobile communication terminal has also developed into a color display device from a black and white display device. Generally the display device of a mobile communication terminal exists in order to inform a user of various state information of the mobile communication terminal e.g. information such as the power supply level the reception intensity of radio waves and date and time. As described above with the development of information communication technology a mobile communication terminal equipped with a color display device has been spread and a wireless Internet service has been generally used which has resulted in the emergence of various content providing businesses. Nowadays a content providing business so called a coloring service has been highlighted which provides still pictures and or moving pictures to a mobile communication terminal in a communication standby state. A user interface displayed on a mobile communication terminal includes a background screen image and a menu configuration image. In a conventional coloring service when a user uses the coloring service a background screen image and a menu configuration image are integrally set and displayed by still pictures and or moving pictures provided by a content provider. Therefore a user cannot randomly configure a background screen image and a menu configuration image according to the preference of the user.

Therefore the present invention has been made in view of the above mentioned problems and it is an object of the present invention to provide a method and system for providing an integration theme pack service in which if a user receives an integration theme pack content from a content providing server through a mobile communication terminal the mobile communication terminal changes a background screen image into the integration theme pack content employs the integration theme pack content as a background picture and generates and displays a user interface having a menu configuration image formed on the integration theme pack content in a dual transparent structure.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for providing an integration theme pack service which customizes a user interface displayed on a mobile communication terminal according to a preference of a user in a mobile communication system including a wireless access network and a mobile communication network the wireless access network being a ground based infrastructure for wirelessly exchanging data with the mobile communication terminal based on a predetermined protocol having handoff and radio resource management functions and relaying the integration theme pack service in which the user interface of the mobile communication terminal is changeable according to the preference of a user the mobile communication network being a set of communication equipment for providing voice telephone and data exchange services to a plurality of subscribers through a switching center and relaying the integration theme pack service to the mobile communication terminal the system including a content providing server for providing the mobile communication terminal with an integration theme pack content necessary for using the integration theme pack service.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for providing an integration theme pack service which customizes a user interface displayed on a mobile communication terminal according to a preference of a user in a system including a wireless access network a mobile communication network and a content providing server the wireless access network being a ground based infrastructure for wirelessly exchanging data with the mobile communication terminal based on a predetermined protocol having handoff and radio resource management functions and relaying the integration theme pack service in which the user interface of the mobile communication terminal is changeable according to the preference of a user the mobile communication network being a set of communication equipment for providing voice telephone and data exchange services to a plurality of subscribers through a switching center and relaying the integration theme pack service to the mobile communication terminal the content providing server providing the mobile communication terminal with an integration theme pack content necessary for using the integration theme pack service the method comprising the steps of a accessing the content providing server b downloading an interface manager from the content providing server the interface manager being a platform necessary for using the integration theme pack service C receiving list information about the integration theme pack content so as to generate the integration theme pack content d downloading the integration theme pack content and e installing the downloaded integration theme pack content.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiment of the present invention. It should be noted that the similar components are designated by similar reference numerals although they are illustrated in different drawings. Also in the following description a detailed description of known functions and configurations incorporated herein will be omitted when it may obscure the subject matter of the present invention.

The system for providing the integration theme pack service according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a mobile communication terminal a wireless access network a mobile communication network an inter working function a WAP gateway the Internet a content providing server among others.

In the following description for convenience of description a mobile communication service will be defined as an integration theme pack service in which if a user accesses the content providing server by using the mobile communication terminal selects a genre e.g. entertainers movies landscapes objects etc. according to the preference of the user and then downloads an integration theme pack content including a background screen image ringing tone effect sound etc. according to the selected genre the mobile communication terminal changes the background screen image of the user interface being currently displayed into the downloaded integration theme pack content employs the integration theme pack content as a background picture overlaps the integration theme pack content with a menu configuration image and generates and displays a user interface having the overlapping portion transparently processed.

In the present invention the integration theme pack service has main characteristics in that if a user accesses the content providing server by using the mobile communication terminal and then selects a favorite genre from the content providing server the integration theme pack content of the corresponding genre including a background screen image ringing tone effect sound etc. is downloaded so as to customize the user interface of the mobile communication terminal . The integration theme pack content is provided as a finished product by a content provider through the content providing server .

The mobile communication terminal denotes a communication terminal capable of using a web service in wire wireless communication environments. That is the mobile communication terminal denotes a communication terminal having an interface manager that is an application necessary for using the integration theme pack service and receiving the integration theme pack content from the content providing server . In other words the mobile communication terminal denotes a communication terminal capable of accessing the mobile communication network via the wireless access network providing a voice communication function for performing typical voice communication with another mobile communication terminal in a wireless manner and customizing a user interface by using the integration theme pack content provided from the content providing server .

The mobile communication terminal accesses the Internet via the mobile communication network by using an Internet access browser such as a Wireless Application Protocol WAP which is an Internet access protocol a Microsoft Internet Explorer MIE based on a HTML using a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP a Handheld Device Transport Protocol HDTP an i mode of NTT DOCOMO Inc. and a NATE of SK Telecom Co. Ltd. and interworks with the content providing server connected to the Internet . From among the Internet access protocols used by the mobile communication terminal the MIE uses a language referred to as an m HTML obtained by slightly modifying and abbreviating the HTML and the i mode uses a language referred to as a compact HTML c HTML corresponding to the subset of the HTML.

The wireless access network denotes a network endpoint equipment performing processing of baseband signals wire wireless conversion transmission reception of radio signals etc. and is directly connected to the mobile communication terminal . That is the wireless access network is arranged by the cell and transmits a communication request of the mobile communication terminal existing in a cell area controlled by the wireless access network to the mobile communication network or performs position information registration for becoming aware of the position of the mobile communication terminal existing in the cell area controlled by the wireless access network .

Further the wireless access network performs a relaying operation between the content providing server and the mobile communication terminal and performs wireless channel assignment and release determination of inter cell soft handoff or hard handoff for the mobile communication terminal transcoding and vocoding Global Positioning System GPS clock distribution management and maintenance for a base station etc.

The mobile communication network corresponds to a public switched telephone network managed by a mobile communication provider denotes a set of communication equipment providing multiple unspecified subscribers with a voice telephone service or a data exchange service and provides the mobile communication terminal with a CDMA 2000 service a WCDMA 2000 service a portable Internet service etc. The mobile communication network performs processing of basic and supplementary services processing of incoming and originating calls of a subscriber processing of position registration and handoff procedures an interworking function with another network subscription and subscription release for the integration theme pack service etc. The mobile communication network of an IS 95 A B C system includes a subsystem such as an Interconnection Network Subsystem INS for performing a distributed call processing function a Central Control Subsystem CCS for taking charge of a centralization function of operation and preservation and a Location Registration Subsystem LRS for performing a storage and management function of information about mobile communication subscribers. Further the mobile communication network for 3 Generation G and 4G may include an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM switch not shown which improves transmission speed and the efficiency of a circuit use by transmitting packets by the cell.

The inter working function provides an interface for data exchange between a wireless communication system and a wired communication system and converts protocols signals and data in a form proper for each network. Generally the inter working function connects the mobile communication network to the Internet .

The WAP gateway denotes software and hardware combined with the software for causing packet data to be wirelessly exchanged between the mobile communication terminal and the content providing server via the mobile communication network . The WAP gateway performs processing of communication code conversion or protocol conversion etc. between the mobile communication network and the Internet in order to rapidly search for and display information on the Internet thereby connecting the mobile communication network to the Internet . That is the WAP gateway interconverts a WAP protocol and an Internet TCP IP protocol. Accordingly data transmission reception is performed between the content providing server and the WAP gateway which are connected to the Internet through an HTTP protocol and data exchange is performed between the mobile communication terminal and the WAP gateway through the WAP protocol. The WAP gateway converts a website address request from the mobile communication network into an HTTP request according to the WAP protocol and then transmits corresponding website address request signals to the content providing server through the Internet according to the HTTP protocol. Further the WAP gateway converts various HTML contents received from the content providing server into a binary code so that the mobile communication terminal can recognize the content and transmits the binary code to the mobile communication terminal . Herein since data through the WAP gateway is converted into a binary code the amount thereof is reduced. Further when the data is transmitted to the mobile communication network the transmission load thereof is reduced.

In the above description the WAP is the general term for a communication protocol enabling the use of the Internet by using a wireless communication terminal such as the mobile communication terminal and a personal digital assistant. In the WAP data is converted into text codes on the Internet and is then transferred to a wireless communication terminal in order to solve the relatively slow communication speed problem of wireless communication. Further the WAP is designed in consideration of a content and a wireless communication terminal for which the WAP is to be used so that users can use the Internet only with a wireless terminal.

The Internet denotes a communication network for providing an access path such that the mobile communication terminal can transmit receive packet data to from the content providing server .

The content providing server denotes software and hardware combined with the software for providing the integration theme pack service. That is the content providing server provides a background screen image forming the user interface of the mobile communication terminal employs the background screen image as a background picture overlaps the menu configuration image of the mobile communication terminal with the background screen image and transparently displays the overlapping portion. In the present invention the mobile communication terminal can change the user interface according to the preference of a user but does not completely change the background screen image and the menu configuration image forming the user interface. That is the mobile communication terminal changes the background screen image ring tone effect sound etc. by using the integration theme pack content provided from the content providing server except for the menu configuration image.

The content providing server according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a network interface unit a memory unit an input output unit a program storage unit a central controller an integration theme pack content database unit etc.

In the present invention the content providing server provides a background screen image ring tone effect sound etc. which form the user interface of the mobile communication terminal according to genres e.g. entertainers movies landscapes objects etc. and provides the mobile communication terminal with an integration theme pack content including a background screen image ring tone effect sound etc. corresponding to a predetermined genre if a user selects a favorite genre according to the preference of the user. Further the content providing server provides the mobile communication terminal with an interface manager that is an application necessary for using the integration theme pack service.

Still further content providing server is configured to generate the integration theme pack content by using still pictures and or moving pictures uploaded from the mobile communication terminal the content providing server further configured to provide the mobile communication terminal with the generated integration theme pack content.

The network interface unit interworks with the Internet etc. and provides the mobile communication terminal requesting the integration theme pack service with a communication interface necessary for providing the integration theme pack content.

The memory unit temporarily stores data processed by the central controller or temporarily stores data generated in a process of providing the mobile communication terminal with the integration theme pack service. The input output unit displays the present processing status regarding the providing of the integration theme pack service etc. as well as the present processing status according to key input. The program storage unit stores control software for executing a process of performing a service subscription procedure for the mobile communication terminal intended for reception of the integration theme pack service and storing information of a user having completed the subscription procedure in the integration theme pack content database unit a process of generating two or three dimensional graphic list information used for selecting the integration theme pack content according to genres and providing the list information to the mobile communication terminal a process of transmitting the selected integration theme pack content to the mobile communication terminal etc.

The central controller is a kind of central control unit which controls a process by which the content providing server provides the integration theme pack service to the mobile communication terminal . That is the central controller executes the control software stored in the program storage unit and transmits the integration theme pack content generated by the executed control software to the mobile communication terminal .

The integration theme pack content database unit stores the interface manager that is software necessary for using the integration theme pack service the integration theme pack content provided to the mobile communication terminal etc. The integration theme pack content stored in the integration theme pack content database unit includes a header background screen image data ring tone data effect sound data firmware data etc. as illustrated in . The header denotes information about genres and the background screen image data forms the background picture of the user interface of the mobile communication terminal . The ring tone data forms the ring tone of the mobile communication terminal and the effect sound data forms the effect sound generated when the mobile communication terminal executes an application.

The WIPI platform structure according to the preferred embodiment of the present invention includes an application manager an interface manager a mobile standard platform OEM software hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal etc.

The application manager denotes a software module for performing a function of downloading an interface manager from the content providing server a function of installing the downloaded interface manager a function of deleting the downloaded interface manager etc. wherein the interface manager is a software package necessary for using the integration theme pack service. When it is necessary to update an Application Programming Interface API and other elements constituting the interface manager the application manager adds or updates a necessary software module.

The interface manager includes an installer for installing the downloaded integration theme pack content in the mobile communication terminal and a theme pack manager for customizing a user interface by using the installed integration theme pack content. The interface manager denotes a software module for performing a process of downloading the integration theme pack content from the content providing server and a process of decoding the downloaded integration theme pack content employing the background screen image included in the integration theme pack content as a background picture overlapping a menu configuration image with the background screen image transparently processing the overlapping portion and generating a user interface having employed ring tone and effect sound included in the integration theme pack content.

Hereinafter a process by which a user uses the integration theme pack service will be described. First the user operates a key input unit not shown provided in the mobile communication terminal so as to execute the interface manager . The executed interface manager separates the background screen image being displayed on a display unit not shown from the menu configuration image and temporarily stores the separated background screen image and menu configuration image in the virtual area of a program storage unit not shown . Then the interface manager extracts the background screen image from the integration theme pack content temporarily stores the extracted background screen image in the virtual area of the program storage unit and loads the menu configuration image previously separated and temporarily stored from the program storage unit. The interface manager employs the extracted background screen image as the background picture overlaps the menu configuration image with the background screen image transparently processes the overlapping portion generates the user interface having employed ring tone and effect sound included in the integration theme pack content and displays the generated user interface on the display unit of the mobile communication terminal .

The installer denotes a software module including a content receiver a parsing manager an integration manager an install manager etc. The content receiver receives the downloaded integration theme pack content from the application manager and the parsing manager decodes the downloaded integration theme pack content. The integration manager verifies the integrity of the downloaded integration theme pack content and the install manager stores the integration theme pack content for which the integrity verification has been completed in the program storage unit of the mobile communication terminal .

The theme pack manager denotes a software module including an information manager a resource manager a file processing manager a theme pack API etc. The information manager confirms the genre information of the integration theme pack content stored in the program storage unit and the resource manager analyzes the hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal to check an installation environment of the integration theme pack content. The file processing manager analyzes the currently displayed user interface to separate the background screen image and the menu configuration image therefrom interworks with the resource manager to temporarily store the separated background screen image and menu configuration image decodes the background screen image included in the integration theme pack content so as to employ the background screen image as the background picture of the user interface overlaps the menu configuration image with the background screen image transparently processes the overlapping portion and applies the ring tone effect sound etc. included in the integration theme pack content to the user interface. The theme pack API calls a function providing a connection to the specific subroutine of a realtime processing operation system which is provided in the mobile communication terminal in order to run the integration theme pack content.

The mobile standard platform denotes a software module including a basic API a Handset Adaptation Layer HAL etc. That is the mobile standard platform monitors the present use status of the hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal controls the use of the hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal in a process of executing an application and supports the execution and porting of various applications regardless of the type of the realtime processing operation system provided in the mobile communication terminal .

The basic API denotes a software module used for communication with system software such as a realtime processing operation system and a database management system when an application such as the interface manager is run according to the embodiment of the present invention. The basic API is performed to call the function providing the connection to the specific subroutine of the realtime processing operation system which is provided in the mobile communication terminal in order to execute the interface manager .

The HAL denotes a software module for supporting the standard of a platform for a terminal manufacturing company and provides an interface between the hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal and the realtime processing operation system. That is the HAL provides an environment in which the application manager can be executed in a mobile communication terminal having different hardware constructions depending on manufacturing companies.

The OEM software performs a basic voice call processing function a data communication function of a lower layer a text message transmission reception function a management function of the mobile communication terminal etc. Further if a control authority for the application manager is received from the mobile standard platform and then the integration theme pack content is received from the content providing server the OEM software employs the background screen image included in the received integration theme pack content as the background picture of the user interface overlaps the menu configuration image with the background screen image and transparently processes the overlapping portion for display on the display unit. Herein an SVD CDMA Rel.A standard has been ported in the OEM software such that the interface manager can smoothly operate in the mobile communication terminal .

The hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal denote a set of electronic mechanical devices such as the key input unit the display unit the program storage unit and the microprocessor of the mobile communication terminal .

That is the mobile standard platform controls the application manager so as to install the interface manager in the program storage unit operates the installed the interface manager to extract the background screen image included in the integration theme pack content employs the extracted background screen image as the background picture overlaps the menu configuration image with the background screen image and transparently processes and displays the overlapping portion.

If a user operates the key input unit provided in the mobile communication terminal accesses the content providing server selects the integration theme pack content and then requests the download of the integration theme pack content the application manager stored in the mobile communication terminal interworks with the content providing server to download the integration theme pack content S .

If the integration theme pack content is completely downloaded the application manager transfers the downloaded integration theme pack content to the content receiver . The content receiver interworks with the integration manager to verify the integrity of the downloaded integration theme pack content S . After having completed the integrity verification for the integration theme pack content the content receiver transmits the integration theme pack content to the parsing manager S .

The parsing manager analyzes the downloaded integration theme pack content and verifies integrity for a lower content included in the integration theme pack content i.e. a background screen image ring tone effect sound etc. S . Then the integration manager requests the install manager to store the downloaded integration theme pack content S and the install manager stores the downloaded integration theme pack content in the program storage unit S .

If a user operates the key input unit provided in the mobile communication terminal and requests the installation of the integration theme pack content in which the setup of a user interface is to be altered the theme pack API of the theme pack manager stored in the mobile communication terminal handles the installation request of the integration theme pack content S .

The theme pack API calls the information manager to transmit information about the integration theme pack content S . The information manager stores the information of the integration theme pack content received from the theme pack API S . Then the theme pack API transmits resource data of the integration theme pack content stored in the program storage unit to the resource manager S .

The resource manager analyzes the hardware resources of the mobile communication terminal to check hardware resources in which the integration theme pack content can be installed decodes the integration theme pack content received from the theme pack API temporarily stores the decoded integration theme pack content in the virtual area of the program storage unit and requests the file processing manager to install the integration theme pack content S .

The file processing manager analyzes a user interface being currently displayed on the mobile communication terminal separates the background screen image from the menu configuration image loads the background screen image included in the integration theme pack content temporarily stored in the virtual area of the program storage unit employs the background screen image as the background picture overlaps the menu configuration image with the background screen image transparently processes the overlapping portion and applies ring tone and effect sound included in the integration theme pack content thereby generating a user interface in which a setup has been newly altered S .

While this invention has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment and the drawings but on the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and variations within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

According to the present invention as described above a user selects a background screen image displayed on a mobile communication terminal according to the preference of the user causes a menu configuration image to be displayed on the background screen image and transparently processes an overlapping portion. Accordingly users can display their individual preferences more freely.

Further since a mobile communication provider in which the ensuring of mobile communication subscribers determines the success or failure of a business provides a differentiated service in saturated communication markets as compared to a rival company it is possible to ensure an advantageous position in collecting new mobile communication subscribers.

