---

title: System and method for presenting a search history
abstract: A method for displaying a search history for a user is shown. The method includes generating a search history for a user including one or more listings of search results, displaying a first search result listing on a web page, and displaying at least a second search result listing on the web page, the second search result listing having a relationship to the first search result listing within the search history.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953730&OS=07953730&RS=07953730
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 07953730
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060302
---
An increasing number of users seeking information utilize web browsers connected to the Internet to begin searching for that information. Users typically begin their search for information by pointing their web browser at a website associated with a search engine. A search engine is a program designed to help locate information. The search engine may be configured to search any of a variety of systems of varying size and scope. For example the search engine may be configured to search multiple computer systems such as computers publishing information on the World Wide Web to search within a particular website on the World Wide Web to search a personal computer or to search any other system. The search engine allows the user to request web pages containing information related to a particular search term or phrase.

Although search terms and phrases may be used by the search engine to guide the information search finding the particular information being sought by the user is challenging. New information is constantly becoming available via the World Wide Web. As the amount of information that is available increases the difficulty that users experience in finding particular information of interest also increases.

In response to the growing difficulty users face in finding information many search engines offer search engine features such as a search history to assist the user in performing their search. In existing systems a search history may be a listing of previous searches. The search history may also include information associated with each search such as the date the search was performed. The search history is presented to the user in a list generally sorted by the date. The user can see what searches have already been performed.

However the usefulness of the search history is limited by the listing presentation. For example a user wanting to revisit an earlier search in performing a new search for information about a particular make and model of vehicle would not intuitively search through a listing of their previous searches sorted by date. Further the search history generally does not include sufficient additional information related to the searches that were performed to provide advanced guidance to the user.

What is needed is a system and method for providing an intuitive navigable user search history to a user. What is further needed is such a system and method configured to provide guidance to the user in performing future searches. What is yet further need is such a system and method configured to provide the user with detailed information about their search history. It will be appreciated that while the teachings herein describe certain features and advantages that may be achieved the teachings herein may be used to implement systems and methods that do not necessarily achieve any of these features or advantages but rather achieve other features and advantages.

One embodiment relates to a method for displaying a search history for a user is shown. The method includes generating a search history for a user including one or more listings of search results displaying a first search result listing on a web page and displaying at least a second search result listing on the web page the second search result listing having a relationship to the first search result listing within the search history.

Another embodiment relates to a search history presentation system configured to display and allow navigation of a search history of a user. The system includes a search history presentation engine configured to generate the search history for the user. The search history includes one or more listings of search results. The system further includes a search history database configured to store the search history for the user and a search history navigation interface configured to display a plurality of search nodes representative of searches performed by the user using a search engine wherein each search node includes search terms entered by the user.

Yet another embodiment relates to a search engine system configured to display a listing of search results further configured to display and allow navigation of a search history of a user using the search engine. The system includes a search engine configured to receive one or more search terms and generate a listing of search results. The system further includes a search history presentation engine configured to generate the search history for the user based on searches performed by the search engine and to generate a search history presentation web page. The web page may be configured to display the first listing of search results and at least a second listing of search results the second listing of search results having a relationship to the first listing of search results within the search history.

Yet another embodiment relates to a computer memory configured to cause a computer processor to provide a graphical user interface to a user search history. The graphical user interface includes a search history browser configured to display one or more search nodes within a search history space the search nodes including search terms and a listing of search results generated by a search engine based on the search term. The search history browser includes a timeline navigation interface configured to allow a user to navigate along a search history timeline including a subset of the plurality of search nodes a search history selection interface configured to allow a user to navigate between search history categories and a zoom level interface configured to allow the user to display more or less of the search history space within the search history browser.

Yet another embodiment relates to a method for displaying a search history for a user. The method includes providing a display having a plurality of search result listing positions where each search result listing position configured to display a search result listing. The method further includes populating the search result listing positions with search result listings from a search history timeline and shifting the search result listings within the search result positions based on updates to the search history timeline. The search result listings are shifted such that the search result listings cycle through the search result listing positions as new search result listings are received.

Referring to a web site system including a search engine including a search history presentation engine a communication network and a plurality of users is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Search history presentation engine includes a search history database configured to store information pertaining to searching behavior for the plurality of users .

Web site system search engine and search history presentation engine may be implemented as computing systems or computer programs to be executed using a computer system. The web site system search engine search history presentation engine and associated components of each system may be implemented using a single computing system e.g. comprising one or more servers or separate computer systems configured to communicate through a communication channel such as a direct connection or communication network . For example the search history presentation engine may be implemented separately from the search engine .

Search engine may be any type of search engine configured to receive one or more keywords or search queries hereinafter referred to as search terms and generate a listing of search results. Search engine may be configured to retrieve data files or documents from a database or network such as the Internet based on the search terms entered by a user or other user of a search engine website. The listing of search results may be a listing of web pages or web sites offering information or functionality associated with the search terms that were entered by the user. The listing of search results may be displayed on a single or multiple web pages. For example a first web page may display the first twenty results a second page may display the second twenty results etc.

According to an alternative embodiment search engine may be associated with an online seller of products such as goods or services and search engine may be a product search engine which may be used to search for products within a web site associated with search engine . Search engine may be configured to display products associated with search terms entered by a user and also offered for sale through the web site associated with search engine or another site. Although two exemplary embodiments are provided it should be understood that search engine may be associated with any information repository such as an article repository associated with a newspaper or other content provider.

Search engine may be configured to build a search results history for each user using search engine to perform searches. The search results history that is generated by search engine may range from simplistic to very detailed. For example a simplistic search results history may include simple search history information such as the search terms that were entered and the date and time that the search terms were entered. Detailed search history information may include any other available or determinable information including but not limited to the search result listing that was generated a record of the search results that were actually clicked on by the user returning to search engine from a web site associated with a search result a record of refinements to the search terms entered by a user after an initial search result listing is displayed etc. Search engine may be implemented using a server architecture for capturing persistently storing and serving event data that occur during the browsing sessions of web site users for example in accordance with the teachings of U.S. Pat. Application No. 20050033803 entitled Server Architecture and Methods for Persistently Storing and Serving Event Data hereby incorporated by reference. More of the detailed information that may be used and methods for using the information are discussed in further detail below with reference to .

Search engine may store the search results history in one or more different data structures depending on the type and intended use of the information. For example where search engine is compiling a simple search history search engine may be configured to store the information in a timeline data structure described in further detail below with reference to . However where the type of information of information is more complex search engine may be configured to store the information in one or more search category groupings further discussed below with reference to . Search engine may further be configured to store rich information in the data structure and provide an interface to allow the user to access the information in a variety of different ways. For example the user can search on the data search the history based on text text in URLs text in search results date performed etc.

According to an exemplary embodiment search engine and the stored search history information may be configured such that the search behavior of a user can be captured independent of the particular computing system being used. For example search may be configured to generate a single search history for a user independent of whether the user is searching from a work home and or public computing system and independent from the particular type of search engine being accessed by the user .

Search history presentation engine may be any computing system configured to present the search history information from search engine in a convenient navigable search history timeline on one or more web pages described in detail below with reference to . Search history presentation engine is coupled to search history database configured to store and retrieve the search history for each user .

Search history presentation engine may be further configured to receive information related to a user search history from sources other than search engine . For example a computing system for a user may contain information indicative of the user s searching behavior using other search engines. The user can choose to share this information with engine to optimize their search history presentation. Other information may be received from for example third party search engines commercial web sites the user etc.

Referring now to B C A B C and the manner in which search history presentation engine displays a user search history in a web page in an intuitive navigable format is described in greater detail according to various exemplary embodiments. Referring first to a search history timeline web page including a first search result listing and at least one second search result listing is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. According to an exemplary embodiment first search result listing may be a listing of search results for present search terms that were searched by a user and past search result listing may be a listing of search results for previous search terms that were searched by the user immediately prior to searching the present search terms described in further detail below.

In a search history presentation web page is configured to display search results data from search engine in first search result listing according to an exemplary embodiment. When search engine is provided with one or more search terms from a user the results of the search may be provided by search engine in the form of data such as data for a search results web page. The data for a search results web page may include a listing of content based web pages associated with the search term displayed.

In the illustrated example search engine has executed a search for the search term frog leg. The generated search results are displayed in first search result listing . First search result listing includes hyperlinks to content based web pages regarding for example products associated with the search term frog leg. The search term that was used may be displayed in a search term title field . In this embodiment search result listing lists web pages providing detailed information about the search term or various individual products for sale related to the search term. A subset of the total number of search results are displayed in listing along with a button to allow the next set of search results to be accessed.

Further in the illustrated example search engine previously executed a search for the search term frog. The search results for the previous search are also displayed on web page in second search result listing . Similar to first search result listing listing includes hyperlinks to content based web pages associated with the previously entered search term frog and includes a next button to allow user to view additional search results. The previous search terms that were used may be displayed in a past search term title field .

According to an exemplary embodiment first search result listing has a relationship with the second search result listing within the search history of user . The relationship may be based on timing e.g. as shown in the search terms used to generate first search result listing may have been entered by user immediately following entry of the search terms used to generate second search result listing . The relationship with the search history for user may alternatively be based on subject matter a user defined category or any other criteria. The relationship between searches may be stored within database .

Although search result listings and are described as being search result listings for consecutively entered search terms it should be understood that they may be any related search listings. For example first search result listing may be replaced by a search result listing for search terms entered by a user one week ago and second search result listing may be replaced by search results from two weeks ago in the same subject matter. The search terms may be related based on the identity of the user subject matter timing refinements that were entered and or any other criteria.

Web page may be configured to allow a user to select one or more of the hyperlinks and or hyperlinks in the search result listings to display a web page associated with the particular hyperlink that was selected. Alternatively web page may be configured such that user can only select hyperlinks associated with first search result listing .

Web page may further be configured to update first search result listing and second search result listing upon receipt of a new set of result results i.e. where a user has entered new search terms. Web page may be configured to display the new search result listing as first search result listing and move the former first search result listing to be displayed as second search result listing . Depending on the display options selected by user discussed in further detail below the former second search result listing may be removed from web page . These updates may be performed without requiring a page update such that the user can see the search history being compiled. The updates may further be implemented using one or more techniques such as showing the movement of first search result listing over to the position on web page formerly occupied by second search result listing to illustrate the relationship between the searches.

Referring now to a graphical representation of a timeline data structure displaying a search history for a user is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The graphical representation is shown for illustrative purposes but may also be displayed on a web page described in further detail below. According to the illustrated embodiment timeline data structure is representative of a search history for the user of . Timeline data structure includes first search result listing from at a first data location and second search result listing from at a second adjacent location on timeline . A timeline data structure may be a data structure stored in database .

Timeline includes a current view indication illustrating the position of first search result listing and second search result listing shown on web page along timeline . As shown timeline may include a large number of search result listings that are generated based on the behavior of a particular user associated with timeline .

Timeline may be generated and continuously updated by search history presentation engine based on the behavior of user using search engine . For example the information stored in database for user may be modified every time the user performs a new search every time the underlying search results change etc. Search history presentation engine may be configured to generate one or more timelines based on information for each user stored in database . Search history presentation engine may further be configured to store and retrieve timeline from database .

According to an alternative embodiment a user may generate multiple timelines . Each timeline may be associated with one or more particular subcategories of user behavior. For example a user may create a shopping research timeline an ancient Rome research timeline etc. The multiple timelines may be generated based on a user designation of the particular category being searched or may be automatically generated by search history presentation engine . Search history presentation engine may be configured to automatically generate the categories based on search term groupings user behavior user group behavior etc. For example where user enters a first search term ancient Rome and a second term gladiator these terms may be grouped together in a timeline based on a computer implemented rule within presentation engine linking gladiators with ancient Rome.

Referring again to web page may be configured to allow user to navigate timeline to change the search result listings that are displayed. For example web page may include a search history navigation interface including a search history forward button and a search history backward button to allow a user to display search results that were entered earlier or later in time by user . Accordingly user may move forward and backward along timeline . Web page may further include a column button configured to allow user to customize the number of columns i.e. the number of search result listings that are displayed on web page at any particular time.

According to an exemplary embodiment search engine may be configured to display web page to user during normal searching operations. According to alternative embodiments web page may be displayed to a user based on any other type of action performed by the user. For example a user may access web page by clicking on a Search History hyperlink displayed on a web page for search engine .

According to an exemplary embodiment the graphical representation of timeline may be displayed to user in a search history navigation interface on a web page including the search results listings. Referring now to a web page including first and second search result listings and is shown where at least a portion of search history timeline from is shown in an abbreviated format in a search history navigation interface according to an exemplary embodiment.

Search history navigation interface is a navigable interface configured to display all or a portion of timeline . Where only a portion of timeline is shown navigation interface may include scroll bars and or navigation keys that can be manipulated by user to navigate timeline . A plurality of search nodes may also be displayed with timeline . Each search node is a graphical representation of a search performed by user using search engine . Each search node may be configured to display information associated with a particular search such as the search terms the listing search results actions taken by user in selecting specific search results from the listing of search results etc. in the abbreviated format.

An abbreviated format may include any subset of the complete information associated with each search result listing. For example a first abbreviated format may include the search terms used to generate the search result listing a second may include the search terms and a first five search results a third may include the titles of the web pages associated with each search result a fourth may include thumbnails of the web pages themselves a fifth may include screenshots a sixth format may be provided according to a categorization such as search terms used to generate the result etc. The abbreviated format may be selected to facilitate navigation of timeline presenting as much information as possible while maintaining readability e.g. a thumbnail view . The abbreviated format may further be customizable by the user based on their particular tastes and needs.

Search history navigation interface may be configured to display the current view indication described above with reference to . Indication may be a box enclosing the search results currently being displayed in first search result listing and second search results listing . Search history navigation interface may be configured such that indication may be manipulated by the user. For example a user may select indication and drag it along timeline to change the search results displayed as first search result listing and second search results listing . Further interface may be configured such that user may click on a edge of indication and drag it sideway to increase the size of indication to enclose additional search node and change the number of search result listings being display on web page .

Search history navigation interface may be implemented using an embedded application configured to dynamically update the information displayed on interface . For example the information may be updated based on the activity of user . Based on entry of new search terms by user interface may be configured to automatically display a new search node on timeline and reposition the current view indication to enclose the new search node. According to another example where user selects a search result associated with search results for a search node the search node may be updated to indicate that the user selected a search result possibly increasing the relevance of the search results the time spent on the search results etc. Search history navigation interface may be automatically modified to reflect this activity. Navigation interface may be implemented such that changes to the information displayed on navigation interface may be displayed without reloading web page .

Navigation interface may include a plurality of hyperlinks configured to allow user to easily navigate through their search history. For example a user may click on any search result listing to display that search result listing as the first search result listing . Alternatively history timeline may be configured such that user may select a particular search results within any of the search result listings in timeline . Where the node is configured to display some portion of the listing of search results for the search associated with the node interface may also be configured such that the user may select particular search results from within navigation interface .

Although are discussed in the context of search engine it will be appreciated that a search engine for a product listing may also be configured to communicate search terms that were used to generate search results and an indication of the search result that was selected based on the entry of the search term by user . For example if a user performs a search for a product from a product search engine and lands directly on a web page associated with that product the search terms that caused the user to land on that page may be communicated by the search engine to the search history presentation engine . This information may be used alone or in combination with the information from search engine .

Although the search history of a user is illustrated above with reference to a timeline it should be understood that a search history may be generated and maintained by search history presentation engine in any number of different ways depending on the information available to search history presentation engine . Further although web page is configured to display a timeline representative of the search history for a user on a portion of a web page it should be understood that any alternative graphical representation of a search history may be also displayed in a variety of different ways. For example a search history may be displayed in a dedicated search history navigation interface web page that does not include listings of search results further described below with reference to .

A search history of a user may be generated and maintained in a decision tree data structure where a selection from alternative suggested revisions to the current search made by the user creates a branch in the tree data structure. For example referring now to a web page illustrating a first search result listing for the search term frog legs and a second search result listing for the search term frog including a search revision selection display is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A search decision display displays one or more suggested search revisions related to the first search result listing and displayed on web page .

According to the exemplary embodiment shown in search revision selection display includes a plurality of suggested revisions that may be selected by user . Selection of a suggested search revision by user will initiate a new search by search engine using the suggested revision search terms. Thereafter each search revision may also include a listing of search results associated with the suggested search terms.

Search revision selection display includes a first suggested search revision to initiate a search using the search term fried frog legs and a second suggested search revision listing to initiate a search using the search term frog leg festivals. The suggested search revisions may be generated by search history presentation engine . The suggested search revisions may be generated based on any number of factors including but not limited to characteristics of the first search result listing characteristics of the entire search results history of user aggregated characteristics for a plurality of users that have performed similar searches aggregated information about the search terms used to generate the first search result listing etc. A suggested search revision may be a revision to the search terms used to generate the first search result listing. Alternatively a suggested search revision may be any search term that may be of interest based on at least the first search result listing described in further detail below with reference to . Although two suggested search revisions are shown and described with reference to it should be understood that web page may be configured to include any number of suggested search revisions.

Referring now to a graphical representation of a search history tree is shown where each branch of search tree includes a suggest search revision node representative of a searching decision made by user e.g. selection of one of multiple suggested search revisions in search decision display according to an exemplary embodiment. Each suggested search revision is associated with a suggested search revision node on search tree . A suggested search revision node may be a search node including search terms that have been suggested but not yet searched using search engine .

According to an exemplary embodiment a user using a web page that offers multiple search suggested search revisions may build search history tree based on their selection of suggested search terms in search revision selection display . Each suggested search revision selection may initiate generation of additional suggested search revisions by engine . Accordingly search tree may be updated to include newly generated suggested search revision nodes based on selection of a suggested search revision in search revision selection display . The newly created suggested search revision nodes are associated with the original suggested search revision node such that the newly created suggested search revisions nodes are branches from the original suggested search revision node .

For example as shown in a user having entered the search term frog legs may be presented with web page including suggested search revisions and to perform an additional search on either fried frog legs or frog leg festivals respectively. Where user selected suggested search revision at selection display search history presentation engine may be configured to generate a web page displaying the search results for fried frog legs as well as newly created suggested search revision nodes including an additional suggested search revision to search on the term Cajun frog leg recipes an additional suggested search revision to search on the term frog leg dipping sauces and an additional suggested search revision to search on the term fried frog leg nutritional information. 

Branches within search tree may also be created by search revisions by user . For example user may be inspired by the suggested search revision to enter their own new search terms. These search terms may be related to the original search terms such that presentation engine can recognize the relationship based on the search terms. For example referring to a user viewing the search results of the fried frog legs search may be inspired to enter the search terms French frog leg recipes. Presentation engine may be configured to implement a simple pattern matching algorithm to recognize the correlation. Presentation engine may also include more complex pattern matching algorithms to build search trees . Accordingly a French frog leg recipe search node would be created and assigned as a branch from the fried frog legs search node.

The graphical representation of a search history tree may be displayed to user on a web page including listings of search results similar to the web page shown and described above with reference to . Alternatively the graphical representation of a search history tree may be displayed on a dedicated search history navigation web page. Referring now to a web page displaying a search history tree including a search history navigation interface is shown according to an exemplary embodiment.

Navigation interface includes a timeline navigation interface shown as a horizontal scroll bar a search history selection interface shown as a vertical scroll bar and a zoom level interface . Advantageously user can utilize interfaces and to view particular areas within search tree in varying levels of detail. For example a user may utilize zoom level interface to zoom in on a particular suggested search revision node to display the search terms for that search node at a first zoom level the search terms and a first search results at a second zoom level the search terms and a first ten search results including an indication of any prior selections of particular search results at a third zoom level etc.

Search history presentation engine may further be configured to display user search history behavior indicia on tree . For example where user has selected fried frog legs revision and Cajun frog leg recipes revision as shown in engine may display search history tree indicating suggested search history revisions that were selected by user in bold text. Further engine may display a viewing time indication associated with each search history listing to illustrate the amount of time that user spent browsing through and clicking on links associated with various search results. Search tree is configured to display the search results associated with each search term listing tree may further indicate which search results were actually selected by the user the amount of time spent reviewing the web page associated with the search result the number of times that the user has visited that particular site etc.

Referring now to a virtual search history space including a plurality of searches performed by a user where the searches are grouped according to a search category is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Search history space is an abstraction representative of information stored in database associated with a user . Search history space includes a search history space browser window representing a web page displayed to a user to allow the user to views the searches in search history space .

Search history browser window includes a zoom level selector allow the user to view more or less of the search history space . Search history browser window may be configured such that zooming out allow users to view more of search history space with less detail while zooming in provide further details regarding a smaller portion of search history space . Search history browser window may further include a horizontal scroll bar allowing the user to move along a search timeline and a vertical scroll bar configured to all the user to switch between search history categories. Search history browser window may yet further include a search history title displayed to user based on the search category currently being viewed.

The searches within search history space may be organized and grouped in search history space based on a search history category. For example a first search history grouping may be associated with searches related to ancient Rome a second search history grouping may be associated with frog legs and a third search history grouping may be associated with movies. Each search history grouping includes a plurality of search nodes. Each search node may include particular search terms a listing of search results indicia of user activity related to the search terms or search results suggested search revisions etc.

Search history categories may be selectable by user or may be automatically generated. For example a user may select or define a search history category such as term paper research in addition to entering search terms related to ancient Rome for a search that will be associated with search history grouping . The search history category may be displayed to user with search history space . Alternatively search history presentation engine may be configured to include a search term search category association engine that will associate search with categories based on any number of factors such as the search terms themselves previously entered search terms the search history of the user previously selected search results etc.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a web page configured to display a subset of a search history for a user and at least one suggested search revision is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Method may be performed by search history presentation engine in conjunction with search engine .

In a step engine generates a search history for a user based on the users entry of one or more search term in the input field provided by search engine . The search engine includes a plurality of search result listings and information associated with each search result listing. The information may include but is not limited to the search terms used to create the search result listing any relationship between the search terms or the search result listing and other search terms and or search result listings the time spent by the user viewing the search result listing the search results selected by the user suggested search revisions displayed to user for the search result listing etc.

Each search result listing stored in database may be either static or dynamic. A static search result listing will have a complete record of the search result listing that was displayed to user at the time the search was performed independent of any subsequent changes to search results that may have occurred since the search was performed. A dynamic search result listing may be configured to be updated based on any changes that occur in the search results the popularity of the search results etc. A dynamic search result listing may be updated based on selection of the search result listing by user . Updating the dynamic search result listing may include re running the search through search engine using the search term s associated with the dynamic search result listing.

In a step search history presentation engine displays a first search result listing on a web page. The search result listing may be displayed based on entry of new search terms by user in search engine based on selection of a second search result listing stored in a search history and displayed in a search history timeline based on actuation of a forward or back button on a search history browsing web page etc. The search result listing may be configured to include a title displaying the search terms used to generate the search result listing a listing of search results a next button configured to allow user to view additional search results within the same listing etc.

In a step search history presentation engine displays at least a second search result listing on the same web page used to display the first search result listing where the at least second search result listing has some relationship with the first search result listing. The relationship may be based on timing subject matter a user defined category or any other criteria.

In a step search history presentation engine generates one or more suggested search revisions based at least in part on the first search result listing. The suggested search revisions may be based on one or more additional factors such as the user s aggregated search history the search terms used to generate the first search result listing behavior of other users that also provided the search terms used to generate the first search result listing behavior of a group of users associated with the user etc.

In a step the suggested search revisions generated in step are displayed to user on the web page displaying the first search result listing such that the user may select a suggested search revision. Selection of a suggested search revision by user will initiate a new search based on the suggested search revision using search engine . The search results generated based on the new search may be displayed as a first search result listing and the current search result listing may be displayed as a second search result listing.

Here and throughout terms such as user publisher visitor and so forth are to be understood in the broadest possible sense. Herein the term user is used generically to refer to consumers advertisers publishers and visitors. By way of illustration and not of limitation a publisher is not restricted to persons or entities who purport to be in the on line publishing business or any other kind of publishing business nor to entities who have complete or even primary control over the content of particular websites but rather is used in a more general sense. In the context of Internet based advertising for example publisher includes any person or entity responsible directly or indirectly for putting content on the Internet whether by hosting or sponsoring websites posting pages frames graphics applets blogs audiovisual content etc. on their own or others websites providing web services that can source content for websites or in any other manner. Still further a visitor may be an individual who visits and views or otherwise perceives the content of a web site and pages therein via a web browser or other client software program running on a personal computer wireless handheld device or the like but may also be for example a corporate or other entity whose servers access published web content and advertisements by invoking web services through appropriate application programming interfaces APIs a visitor may or may not be the intended or actual end user of a product or service that is the subject of an advertisement etc. A visitor may also be an automated system such as a web crawler associated with a search engine. In sum persons of skill in the art will appreciate that a wide variety of actors more than can be conveniently set forth here can play the roles of advertiser publisher and visitor for purposes of the present invention. It will be further appreciated that the selfsame person or entity may be both publisher and advertiser or both publisher and visitor or both advertiser and visitor or even all three depending on the context. In a similar vein and as will be apparent from the foregoing terms such as web page website and so forth are used to give specific illustrative examples of settings in which on line content and advertisements can be presented to and perceived by users. Such examples are not intended to be limiting and persons of skill in the art will appreciate that many other such settings now known or yet to be developed may be suitable to the practice of the present invention in specific embodiments.

It should be noted that although flow charts may be provided herein to show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs. It is to be understood that any method steps as recited herein e.g. in the claims may be performed by a configuration utility e.g. Java based executed by a computing device based on input by a user. Of course according to various alternative embodiments any suitable configuration utility application system computing device etc. may be used to execute implement and or perform method steps as recited in this disclosure including the claims .

The invention is described above with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the present invention. However describing the invention with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations associated with features shown in the drawings. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated machine readable media provide nonvolatile storage of machine executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

