---

title: Systems and methods for suppressing motion sickness
abstract: Systems for suppressing motion sickness are provided. In this regard, an exemplary system comprises a display device and a display controller. The display device is operative to display a first image and a second image. The display controller communicates with the display device and is operative to control display of the second image such that the second image moves relative to the display device in response to at least one of: motion of the first image relative to the display device, and motion of the display device. Methods and other systems also are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07918781&OS=07918781&RS=07918781
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07918781
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060322
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention generally relates to the suppression of motion sickness in human operators viewing display devices.

Motion sickness is provoked by sensory conflict between visual and sensory motor activities that involve the vestibular system through head movements. Associated with motion sickness is a constellation of autonomic symptoms such as pallor drowsiness salivation sweating nausea and in more severe cases vomiting. Although some individuals eventually adapt to situations that initially provoke such sickness others do not. In these individuals occurrences may be severe enough to arrest task performance until the symptoms subside.

In field experiments conducted by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory on indirect vision driving some symptoms of motion sickness occurred in most of the participants. As shown in participants such as operator drove a ground vehicle while viewing a vehicle mounted display . The display provided the participants with images of the external scene return from a forward looking camera mounted on the exterior of the vehicle. The cab area was completely enclosed to prevent direct viewing of the external scene by the participants. On average one out of eight participants was made sick enough to abort the driving task.

In other experiments participants have reported symptoms of motion sickness while operating a movable camera e.g. a camera mounted on a remote vehicle from inside a moving control vehicle. Symptoms of motion sickness can be particularly strong when the control vehicle is turning in a direction opposite to the direction of turn of the camera. In such a case the motion of the scene viewed on the display is directly opposite to that sensed by the vestibular system of the human operator riding in the control vehicle.

With respect to the example previously provided in if the vehicle is turning as indicated by arrow A and the camera is simultaneously rotated clockwise at a rate of turn greater than that of the vehicle arrow B the sequential images of the exterior scene displayed to the user are as shown in . That is the image associated with the exterior scene e.g. the sign is displayed to the operator as moving to the left across the display device . Since an operator is accustomed to an exterior scene moving to the right when the vehicle in which the operator is located is turning to the left motion sickness can be induced in the operator.

Systems and methods for suppressing motion sickness are provided. In this regard an embodiment of a system comprises a display device and a display controller. The display device is operative to display a first image and a second image. The display controller communicates with the display device and is operative to control display of the second image such that the second image moves relative to the display device in response to at least one of motion of the first image relative to the display device and motion of the display device.

Another embodiment of a system comprises a display device a display controller an image motion sensor and a display motion sensor. The display device has a scene field for displaying scene images and a compensatory field for displaying compensatory images with the compensatory field being of two components one component being located about the periphery or border of the scene field and the second component being superimposed over the scene field. The display controller communicates with the display device and is operative to control display of the compensatory images. The image motion sensor is operative to determine motion of the scene images relative to the display device with the image motion sensor providing information corresponding to motion of the scene images to the display controller. The display motion sensor is operative to determine motion of the display device with the display motion sensor providing information corresponding to the motion of the display device to the display controller. The display controller receives the information from the image motion sensor and the display motion sensor and controls the display device such that the compensatory images move with respect to the display device in a manner correlated to the motion of the scene images and the motion of the display device.

An embodiment of a method for suppressing motion sickness in an operator of a display device wherein the display device displays a first image comprises displaying a second image to the user the second image moving relative to the display device in a manner corresponding to at least one of motion of the first image relative to the display device and motion of the display device.

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be described in detail herein systems and methods are provided that can potentially suppress motion sickness in an operator who is viewing a scene e.g. the scene return from a video camera displayed by a display device. Specifically compensatory images are displayed to the operator to compensate for the displayed scene that is causing the motion sickness. The compensatory images are controlled to correspond to changes in the velocity flow of the displayed scene as well as to accelerations sensed by the operator viewing the displayed scene. As used herein velocity flow refers to the direction and speed of motion of an image with respect to the display device that is used to display the image.

With brief reference again to recall that the operator is located within a vehicle in which a display device is mounted. The camera associated with the vehicle acquires image data corresponding to an exterior scene. In the camera is acquiring images associated with a sign .

Recall also that the vehicle is turning to the left while the camera is rotating clockwise at a rate that is greater than the turn rate of the vehicle. Therefore the images from the camera that are displayed by the display device do not correspond to the sensory motor cues sensed by the vestibular system of the operator.

Consider first this effect in a low resolution display such as a scrolling text file where the movements are naturally interpreted by the display operator as scene rotations. Now let Vbe the stable earth referenced scene velocity flow i.e. the velocity flow of images displayed to the operator that corresponds to the motion indicated by arrow F sensed by the operator let Vbe the velocity flow of images displayed in the scene field and let Vbe the velocity flow of images displayed in the compensatory field . Then V V V.

The accelerations experienced by the operator are determined with respect to an arbitrary coordinate system that has an x axis parallel to the x axis of display device and a y axis that is parallel to the y axis of the display device. Therefore with respect to the motion of the operator relative to the x axis of coordinate system the acceleration of the operator is expressed as . The x axis component of the stable scene velocity flow V is represented by V d . Then with Vbeing the x axis component for the velocity flow of images displayed in the scene field the x axis component of the velocity flow of images displayed in the horizontal compensatory field V is given by V V d .

Similarly with respect to the motion of the operator relative to the y axis of coordinate system the acceleration of the operator is expressed as . The y axis component of the stable scene velocity flow V is represented by V d . Then with Vbeing the y axis component for velocity flow of images displayed in the scene field the y axis component of the velocity flow of images displayed in the vertical side compensatory field V is given by V V d .

V V d . By way of example one manner to display compensatory images that vary in response to motion along the z axis is to change the size of the compensatory images so that the images appear to get closer or move farther away from the operator. While this analysis is limited to rotations as shall be demonstrated below similar comments apply to linear motions.

Based on these equations there is no velocity flow for images displayed in the compensatory field when images displayed in the scene field are moving in a direction and at a rate opposite to those of the direction and rate of the vehicle in which the operator is located. In contrast images displayed in the scene field that are moving in the same direction as the vehicle result in an opposing velocity flow of the images displayed in the compensatory field.

In order to provide suitable compensatory images measurements of the velocity flows of the images displayed in the scene field as well as the acceleration experienced by the operator should be real time and accurate. In some embodiments the velocity flow field of the images displayed in the scene field can be estimated from analysis of the images themselves. For instance the position of a particular object displayed in the scene field can be determined periodically for measuring the velocity flow. Additionally or alternatively information corresponding to the position orientation and or speed of the vehicle on which the camera that is acquiring the images for display in the scene field can be used. In the case of teleoperations such information could be extracted from the control signals used to control the vehicle and or camera.

The accelerations experienced by the operator can be measured by one or more sensors e.g. accelerometers that can be mounted in various locations. For instance one or more sensors can be located on the display device on the vehicle body and or on the operator e.g. on the operator s helmet.

Having now described several embodiments in general additional embodiments of systems and methods for suppressing motion sickness will now be described in greater detail. It should be noted that embodiments of such systems can be implemented in software firmware hardware or combinations thereof. When implemented in hardware such a system can be implemented with any or a combination of various technologies. By way of example the following technologies which are each well known in the art can be used a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit s ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA and a field programmable gate array s FPGA .

When implemented in software such a system typically is used in conjunction with a computer or processor based device. An example computer that can be used to implement an embodiment of a system for suppressing motion sickness is depicted schematically in .

As shown in an embodiment of a system for suppressing motion sickness includes a computer . Computer incorporates a processor memory a display device a sensor s and an input and or output I O device s that are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The software in memory can include one or more separate programs each of which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions.

In the embodiment of the software in the memory includes a display controller an operating system O S and an application that provides an output to the display device. The display controller includes a scene image driver a compensatory image driver and a compensatory image engine .

In operation the display controller provides information to the display device for displaying scene images and compensatory images. Specifically the scene images that are displayed in the scene field of the display device are controlled by the scene image driver and the compensatory images that are displayed in the compensatory field are controlled by the compensatory image driver . The scene image driver receives information for the application and or the I O device s that corresponds to the scene images. The scene image driver in addition to providing an input for controlling the scene field provides an input to the compensatory image engine . This input is used by the compensatory image engine to determine the velocity flow of the scene images. For instance in this embodiment consecutive positions of a selected scene image are analyzed to determine the velocity flow. Rotational velocities of the scene images are computed from the velocity flow and the distance of the display device from the viewing position of the operator. Thus in this embodiment the compensatory image engine functions as an image motion sensor.

The motion of the operator is determined by the sensor s with information from the sensor s being provided to the compensatory image engine. The compensatory image engine then uses the various inputs to calculate parameters associated with compensatory images that are to be displayed within the compensatory field of the display device . Information corresponding to the parameters of the compensatory image is provided to the compensatory image driver which then provides corresponding input to the display device for controlling the compensatory images.

In some embodiments the compensatory image engine can receive an input from the application that corresponds to the state of the application. For example operator inputs to the application can be analyzed for providing predictive control to the compensatory images.

As shown in the process may be construed as beginning at block where the velocity of a first image displayed in a scene field of a display device is determined. In block the acceleration experienced by an operator viewing the display device is determined. In block a second image is displayed to the operator to compensate for a difference between the velocity of the first image and the acceleration.

Schematically depicted in is a portion of a compensatory field frame in which is depicted several compensatory images. Specifically each of the compensatory images is a chevron that includes an apex and an included angle. For instance chevron includes an apex and an included angle . Although various shapes of compensatory images can be used chevrons can be advantageous in several respects. For instance the apex of the chevron can point in the direction of velocity flow thereby enhancing the visual impact of the compensatory images. Additionally as the velocity flow in a particular direction increases the included angle can be decreased. Moreover the spacing s between adjacent chevrons can be decreased as the velocity flow increases thereby further enhancing the visual impression. Various other techniques can be used in addition to or in lieu of the previously mentioned techniques. For example the thickness of a compensatory image can be increased as the velocity increases.

Consider now the motions perceived on a high resolution display such as that for a camera scene from a moving vehicle. Here the display operator has the resolution needed to discern the vehicle movements. Considering in detail the motions perceived on the display in a camera scene illustrates the velocity components that would be seen by the operator in an embodiment of these methods. The viewing point P of the operator is assumed to be a distance d from the display that is equivalent to the camera focal point. Accordingly the field of view that the operator sees for the display is the same as that subtended by the camera lens for the scene. Referring to the display coordinate system the display scene can have several velocity components as the vehicle moves a rotational velocity about the y axis that for a fixed forward staring camera corresponds to a turning and pitch effect a linear forward z axis velocity V along the turn and a linear sideward x axis velocity V from a skidding movement. In addition there is a torque effect about the z axis in the display face from a roll in the turn. One of ordinary skill in the art will realize that other rotational and linear motions are possible using these methods. These velocities and the resulting accelerations are determined by the compensatory image engine from an analysis of the movements of matching scene elements.

Reference is now made to which depicts a top view of the movement fields of the images for suppressing motion sickness in a camera scene and specifically illustrates the velocity flow that would result from the compensatory display driver as determined from the image engine for the scene accelerations and those on the operator. For the purposes of illustration only the velocity flow of the elements for the top horizontal compensatory display is shown. As in the viewing point P of the operator is a distance d from the display . Additionally the coordinate system is consistent with that of . The figure shows a compensatory velocity about the y axis in response to discrepancies in rotational acceleration a linear velocity for forward acceleration and linear velocity for sidewards accelerations . The solid vectors denote actual velocity flow and broken line vectors denote apparent velocity flow to the operator. Similarly the compensatory elements are denoted as filled circles and the apparent elements by unfilled circles for simplicity.

Referring now to the rotational velocity in . Where is the rotational velocity of the scene and Vis the forward velocity the rotational acceleration is given by V. Similarly the display operator physically experiences a rotational acceleration a while riding in the vehicle during a turn. In a turn the operator experiences a centripetal force applied by the seat belt harness forcing him or her to move in a curved path with the vehicle. This force causes the sensation of a virtual centrifugal acceleration. The discrepancy between the observed rotational acceleration on the display and that experienced by the operator is a a V. For a normal viewing distance d this corresponds to a velocity at the display compensatory field of sqrt V d in the direction of the discrepancy.

Furthermore as shown in for a flat display surface the actual viewing distance varies with viewing offset angle from the display normal and the corresponding compensatory velocity is cos at this angle. That is the velocity will be faster at the edges then in the center of the compensatory field to maintain the appearance of a rotational flow as seen from the operator s position. Further as a consequence of the flow pattern the display elements will be spread out at the edges and bunch together in the center as the flow occurs. In this way the flow pattern on the flat display surface will appear to the operator as a compensatory rotation of equally spaced elements with velocity .

Reference is now made to the sideward accelerations . For example is the acceleration of the linear sideward velocity V of the scene on the display and the operator experiences a sideward acceleration a in the vehicle. The discrepancy between the observed linear acceleration on the display and that experienced by the operator is a a . The compensatory velocity flow must exhibit acceleration equal to and in the same direction as the discrepancy. Thus the entire horizontal compensatory field moves at a linear velocity with the rotational compensation speeds superimposed where the linear velocity referenced from zero has the acceleration a that is a t where t is the time that the display element has been presented.

Referring now to the linear forward accelerations . The term is the acceleration of the linear forward velocity Vof the scene on the display and the operator experiences a forward acceleration a in the vehicle. The discrepancy between the observed linear acceleration on the display and that experienced is a a . The compensatory velocity flow must exhibit acceleration equal to and in the same direction as the discrepancy. One way of exhibiting this flow on the display is to show a compensatory element as either decreasing or increasing in size over time. illustrates the apparent image generated by the vertical compensatory display elements changing size at a rate corresponding to a linear velocity of travel V where the linear velocity referenced from zero has the acceleration a. Thus the size of the display element is given by the expression r r d a t where ris a reference size scaled for the apparent perspective distance that would be reached with the forward velocity a t and t is the time that the display element has been presented. Based on the assumption of consistency of object size the perceived impression is either that of slowing down or speeding up. Observing a figure decreasing in size implies slowing down since the figure is flowing on past the observer while a figure increasing in size implies speeding up since the figure is being approached for passing.

In an exemplary embodiment an expanded set of element features is used to support the increase in movement resolution. Here since the display properties of the compensatory elements are features readily noticed with peripheral vision the elements are simple geometrical shapes that appear to naturally morph from one to the other as the speed increases. illustrates examples of several such figures a line circle ellipse cusp sector chevron filled chevron and filled chevron with sharpen apex. One of ordinary skill in the art will know that many other shapes figures and variations thereof could be used in these methods.

The line indicates no movement the circle indicates movement either forward or back the ellipse indicates movement to the side as well as forward and the cusp and sector are transient figures that lead to the chevron which indicates side movement. In addition color is used as another simple feature to indicate the direction of the acceleration with say the color red indicating acceleration and blue indicating deceleration. The color hue indicates the strength with the color magenta sum of red and blue indicating no acceleration.

The saturation intensity of the compensatory displays is a function of the power spectrum of the acceleration frequencies. Motion sickness is apparently related to the oscillatory changes in acceleration. The saturation intensity is most sensitive to the acceleration amplitudes in the frequency range that the human operator is most sensitive to motion sickness. This is commonly 0.1 0.5 Hertz. The intensity falls off on either side of this frequency range since outside of this range the compensatory display distracts from the scene. The intensity is reduced when the operator is not using the scene display the lack of activity on the scene display concurrence with other activities acts as a dimmer switch for the intensity.

For higher amplitudes within the motion sickness frequency range it may be necessary to provide an additional compensatory display that is overlaid on the scene itself. Reference is now made to illustrating a display with a dot pattern overlaid on the scene for this purpose. The pattern is moved in synchronization with the peripheral displays. Similarly illustrates a stronger reinforcement consisting of a line grid overlay for the scene . In this embodiment the additional compensation is provided by a grid pattern consisting of an array of dots forming intersecting lines with the line dot density being varied from sparse to solid with increasing vibration amplitudes.

In addition to the above embodiments for application to vehicle cab mounted panel displays these methods may alternatively be applied to head mounted displays. As applied to a head mounted display the compensatory displays may be in an annular ring peripherally located about the central scene display and the display sensor may be head mounted. The operator is always looking at the scene display and the intensity of the compensatory display elements is a function of the acceleration discrepancy power spectrum.

When a system for suppressing motion sickness is implemented in software it should be noted that the system can be stored on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with any computer related system or method. In the context of this document a computer readable medium is an electronic magnetic optical or other physical device or means that can contain or store a computer program for use by or in connection with a computer related system or method. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM EEPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

It should be emphasized that many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. For instance as disclosed above the compensatory images can change size to compensate for accelerations relative to the z axis of the coordinate system. That is scene images accelerating forward faster than the vehicle can result in compensatory images decreasing in size. Also as disclosed above compensatory images can additionally or alternatively change color shape and intensity in response to the compensatory velocity V.

All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

