---

title: Buoyant cable antenna system and method with articulating blocks
abstract: A buoyant cable system and method is provided with a towed platform that is flexible for deployment into the water from a submerged submarine. The towed platform has a memory that returns to a selected shape after deployment. In one embodiment the biasing member is a spring acting against and anchored to Kevlar® strands running through the blocks such that the blocks are compressed into a desired shape during operation but remain sufficiently flexible for deployment and retrieval. In another embodiment, a keel may be formed from a weighted curved portion that is suitable for vertically supporting an antenna above the surface of the water to prevent signal interference due to water washing over the towed transmission line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07466278&OS=07466278&RS=07466278
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07466278
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061226
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The instant application is related to three co pending U.S. patent applications entitled BUOYANT CABLE ANTENNA CONFIGURATION AND SYSTEM Ser. No. 11 650 762 SERPENTINE BUOYANT CABLE ANTENNA SYSTEM Ser. No. 11 650 764 BUOYANT CABLE ANTENNA SYSTEM Ser. No. 11 650 761 having the same filing date.

The present invention relates generally to a flexible antenna system and in a more particular preferred embodiment to a buoyant cable antenna system with articulating blocks which provide flexibility for deployment and a predetermined shape after deployment.

Buoyant cable antennas are well known for use by submarines especially when the submarine is submerged. Such cables have been used to receive radio signals in the very low frequency and low frequency VLF LF transmission bands. Present buoyant cable antenna systems consist of a horizontal wire antenna for reception of signals in the range of from about 10 kHz to 130 kHz.

The buoyant cable antenna floats on the ocean surface and is deployed with a buoyant cable. The horizontal antenna element lies on the surface of the ocean and reception is limited by transmission line attenuation amplifier gain and antenna characteristics. Seawater attenuation antenna gain and frequency patterns limit the usefulness of the horizontal antenna element.

The buoyant cable antenna must be flexible because a submerged submarine preferably launches the cable antenna through a transfer mechanism which bends the cable through a six inch radius. Because flexibility is required buoyant cable antennas have employed a horizontal wire antenna element which receive signals from the fore and aft front and back direction relative to its deployment. This limitation of the antenna gain pattern reduces the reception capability of the buoyant cable antenna.

Various inventors have addressed similar problems related to buoyant cable antennas as discussed in the following patents. U.S. Pat. No. 5 933 117 issued Aug. 3 1999 to the present inventor Erich M. Gerhard is incorporated herein by reference and discloses a buoyant loop antenna deployable along a cable which includes a core region comprising a plurality of annular ferrite beads. These annular shaped beads include a center hole and a generally concave first end and a generally convex second end. The ferrite beads are aligned with the concave end of one bead against the convex end of another bead. This allows the cable to flex while the beads maintain contact with each other providing flexibility and resistance to crushing. The core region has a loop wire wrapped helically around it forming the loop antenna. The loop wire element starts and ends at the same end of the core region forming a loop. This loop allows transmission and reception in an athwart side to side direction. This wire loop antenna can be combined with a straight wire antenna which provides reception in a fore and aft direction to provide an omni directional cable antenna assembly for VLF LF frequency ranges.

U.S. Pat. No. 1 667 510 issued Apr. 24 1928 to J. R. Coe discloses a cable constituting an electrical conductor for high tension transmission lines having in combination a core comprising a plurality of short rigid members arranged end to end and contacting wires of high electrical conductivity arranged spirally and side by side about said members.

U.S. Pat. No. 1 810 079 issued Jun. 16 1931 to H. C. Jennison discloses a conducting cable comprising a series of cups constituting a supporting means comprising a plurality of diaphragms and round contacting conductors spirally wound about the supporting means. The several cups have on their sides longitudinally extending surfaces aligning the cups within the spirally wound conductors. Adjacent end portions of adjacent cups are suitably nested so as to form ball and socket joints between them.

U.S. Pat. No. 2 419 053 issued Jul. 3 1942 to C. E. Bennett discloses an electric cable in which the weight to volume ratio is such to render the cable buoyant. The cable comprises a continuous water pervious tubular member conductor strands laid up about the tubular member or core and a sheath of insulating material about the conductor strands. Floats are threaded upon the sheath and rigidly secured thereto. The adjacent ends of the floats are telescoping with each other while permitting relative angular movement to provide a flexible structure.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 978 966 issued Dec. 18 1990 to Takizawa et al. discloses an antenna with a plurality of rod shaped cores aligned in an end to end relationship and an antenna coil wound on the core array throughout its entire length. This arrangement permits the antenna to bend and fit a curved surface of a car where the antenna is mounted.

U.S. Pat. No. 2 428 480 issued Oct. 7 1947 to H. A. Tunstall discloses a tubular buoyancy element comprising a longitudinally flexible helix resistant to radial compression and a flexible waterproof covering enclosing the helix. Means comprising expanded rubber plugs are provided within the covering and have peripheral surfaces molded to and closely fitting the internal surface thereof for dividing the interior of the element into a plurality of closed compartments.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 117 596 issued Jan. 14 1964 discloses a buoyant flexible hose comprising helically wound reinforcement means comprising a pair of tubular members in laterally adjacent relation and having longitudinally spaced convolutions and a plastic carcass enclosing at least a portion of the reinforcement means. The carcass comprises an inner tubular wall portion and an outer helically corrugated wall portion having the valley portions thereof secured to opposed portions of said inner wall portion. A portion of the reinforcement means is disposed between the peak portions of the corrugated outer wall portion and opposed portions of the inner wall portion. Sealed helical air spaces are formed between the portion of the reinforcement means and opposed surface portions of the carcass wall portions enclosing the same. The sealed air spaces are disposed on either side of the portion of the reinforcement means.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 823 249 issued Jul. 9 1974 to Floessel et al. discloses a compressed gas insulated electrical high voltage conductor assembly comprised of a number of pressurized gas filled rigid straight sections arranged in end to end relation. Each section is constituted by a length of a rigid metallic tubular member which encloses and supports centrally therein a rigid portion of the electrical conductor. These rigid conductor enclosing section are joined together by means of short flexible sections of the tubular enclosing member and a corresponding flexible portion of the conductor thereby to enable the connected together rigid sections to be bent through an angle of substantially 180 degrees to facilitate transport from the fabrication point to a remote location for on site installation.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 561 640 issued Oct. 1 1996 to W. C. Maciejewski discloses a sonar array cable typically provided in lengths comprising hydrophone arrays and associated electronics and transmitter can components with each cable length or section having one of each of these components housed therein. These sections are relatively stiff and unbendable requiring that they be connected with relatively bendable intermediate segments. These intermediate segments are susceptible to excessive bending that can lead to failure of the wiring provided therebetween. The wiring in these intermediate bendable segments is provided in the form of a coil each coil is rigidly connected to the transmitter and electronics in one cable section and the other end of the coil being connected electrically to the wiring associated with the hydrophone array in an adjacent cable section. Each coil is encased in relatively soft urethane material preferably in one portion of the bendable segment another portion of the bendable segment having the coil connected at its other end to a relatively still urethane material associated with the transmitter can and associated electronics.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 953 issued Aug. 31 1982 to Carnaghan et al. discloses a flexible coupling assembly for a radio antenna of a submarine buoyant cable antenna system is connected in a cable line that retains the characteristics of the cable as regards the outside diameter flexibility tensile strength and electrical continuity. The assembly comprises flexible co axial connectors at each end keyed to an insulator that press fit in a transition piece. The transition piece is press fit into the tubing by barbed type annular rings machined into the transition piece. Between the insulators and enclosed by the tubing are plastic pieces connected by a coil spring.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 745 436 issued Apr. 28 1998 to S. H. Bittleston discloses a semi dry marine seismic streamer cable that consists of a number of connected streamer cable sections which each comprise a mechanical jacket surrounding a hollow core enclosing the seismic sensor and signal transfer means. Elongated axial stress elements for transmitting axial loads and a radial reinforcement member for relieving radial loads are provided in the jacket. The core is filled with a fluid or fluid saturated foam and the sensor means are mounted in the core by vibration isolating elements.

The above cited prior art discloses buoyant antenna cables which at best are limited in frequency range and which are limited as to the types of antennas which can be used therewith. It would be desirable to provide an antenna structure formed of flexible buoyant material that after deployment by a submerged vessel realizes a designed shape. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the present invention that addresses the above and other problems.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a suitable shape for a towed platform that is flexible during deployment.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an improved towed platform that may be constrained into a relatively rigid structure after deployment.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide an improved platform with one or more curves that provide support in the water.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the drawings the descriptions given herein and the appended claims.

In accordance with the present invention a buoyant flexible antenna system is operable for use in water with a transmission line. The system comprises elements such as for instance articulating blocks that form a linear platform for towing in the water with the transmission line. The blocks have engagement faces such that when the plurality of blocks is compressed then the linear platform takes on a preselected shape. The selected shape may have one or more curved sections that extend outwardly away from a theoretical centerline of the at least one linear platform. In a preferred embodiment one or more antennas mounted to the at least one linear platform.

A biasing mechanism may be used to constrain the blocks with sufficient force to thereby constrain the blocks into the desired position. The biasing mechanism may be of several types including spring bias. Other types of bias may utilize water flow to induce a compression force such as with extendable retractable fins to activate and deactivate the blocks into the desired position. A plurality of strands hereinafter such as Kevlar or other strands preferably extends through the plurality of blocks to hold the blocks adjacent to each other. Kevlar is an aromatic polyamide fiber manufactured and sold by Du Pont de Nemours Company. In one embodiment a rotary connector is preferably utilized between the linear platform and the transmission line. For instance if a weight is mounted to a curved portion of the transmission line with a rotary connector utilized between the platform and transmission line then the weighted curved portion may act as a keel for supporting the antenna in a desired position. The weight may be mounted at an apex of the curved portion.

In another embodiment the linear platform may comprise a first curved section and a second curved section such that the first curved section and the second curved section extend outwardly from the theoretical centerline in opposite directions.

A method for fitting up a buoyant cable system in accord with the present invention may comprise steps such as for instance connecting a plurality of blocks together to form a flexible linear construction for attachment to a transmission line wherein the flexible construction and the transmission line may be deployable into water. The method may include steps such as providing the plurality of blocks with interconnection surfaces such that the linear construction may have memory of a selected shape. Other steps may include mounting an antenna with respect to the flexible linear construction. Moreover the method may comprise steps such as providing that the selected shape has one or more curves therein and or providing a curved shape to form a keel for supporting the antenna. Additional steps may include threading the blocks together with one or more strands and biasing the blocks to thereby constrain the blocks into the selected shape.

The present invention utilizes a buoyant cable antenna that can be deployed by a submerged submarine. Moreover the present invention can be used to provide extended frequency range capability to a buoyant cable antenna system. Besides increased frequency band reception the antenna may provide improved frequency gain and pattern enhancements. Referring to through it is illustrated that the shaped platforms and A possible examples of which are illustrated are placed in a flexible tube and encapsulated in a foam outer jacket in order to provide buoyancy. The flexible construction permits passage through deployment mechanisms. Thus a construction is provided that is flexible yet has memory to remember the desired shape after deployment.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to and there are shown two possible embodiments of desirably shaped antenna buoyant platforms and A respectively in accord with the present invention. Other shapes and constructions may also be used that avoid the problems of being limited to a horizontal wire antenna. However the present invention can also be used in conjunction with a horizontal wire antenna.

In and towed platform provides what may be referred to as a buoy construction. In the buoy construction a portion of the antenna such as portion may actually protrude or vertically stand above water line as represented by the x y plane of the Cartesian reference axes in . if desired. However if desired the entire antenna can remain at or near the surface of the water without extending above the water. Towed platform provides a keel portion that may be curved to place keel portion vertically below water surface x y to thereby provide a net upward buoyant force that positions portion vertically upstanding from water surface x y if desired. For this purpose keel portion may be substantially U shaped or at least be formed in a curved shape. Theoretical centerline or principal longitudinal tow axis of towed platform may typically also be at the approximate water surface during towing as represented by axis coinciding with the y axis of the reference Cartesian axes in . Curved portions such as keel portion extend outwardly from theoretical centerline . In one embodiment keel portion is weighted at apex to effectively provide a weighted keel that provides vertical stability to section . Because section thereby remains in an operational upright position section may provide a suitable position on platform for mounting a vertical antenna or other antennas. Rotary joint may be used to permit rotation of keel portion with respect to transmission line to thereby stabilize upright positioning and avoid the towing effects that might otherwise rotate or twist transmission line .

Section or other portions of platform could be comprised of many different types of antenna constructions. For instance some antennas suitable for placement at section might include monopole antennas dipole antennas helical antennas spiral antennas patch antennas and the like. Such antennas are well known to have a wide range of frequency capabilities and can be designed for many frequency gain patterns. Thus the present invention may be used to thereby utilize a wide range of different types of antennas only a few of which have been mentioned. The antenna may be mounted only at section or may be mounted anywhere along towed platform and may if desired be used in conjunction with a horizontal wire type antenna mounted to transmission line . Moreover multiple antennas may be mounted to towed platform at the same or at various positions if desired.

Referring to and the serpentine shape of towed platform A also provides a stable platform for a vertical antenna section which may also extend out of water line if desired. Towed platform A has two curves and both of which are buoyant to thereby float near or on water surface as represented by centerline or principal tow axis of the buoyant antenna platform A coinciding with the y axis of the reference Cartesian axes shown in . First curve thereby counterbalances second curve so as to support vertical antenna section if used in a vertical position during towing. Towed platform A may or may not include a keel section which may be weighted for even more stability.

More particularly and disclose one embodiment of the present invention that comprises articulating blocks that provide a flexible structure with memory. The systems of and A may be formed from a plurality of blocks such as blocks or blocks . It will be apparent that blocks such as blocks in system are arranged in the buoy format while blocks such as blocks in system A are arranged in the serpentine format. Blocks in system and A may either be in a constrained or relatively rigid position or may be unconstrained so as to provide for flexibility during deployment. Moreover the blocks may be biased as discussed hereinafter such that sufficient force is provided to maintain the desired shape but the force is sufficiently limited so the platform is flexible for deployment.

Referring now to an enlarged section of articulating blocks such as representative articulating blocks and are shown. The blocks may be of varied shape and size if desired. Alternatively the blocks may have substantially the same diameter. The desired shape is provided by minor variations in the face such as faces and . Thus the present invention is not limited to any particular size and shape for the articulating blocks. In another embodiment identical blocks could be used and wedges or structures placed between the identical blocks to thereby produce the desired shape when the blocks are constrained together. The blocks may insulate the foam jacket in order to increase buoyancy.

Each articulating block is held in a relative position with cables such as Kevlar strands and . Kevlar is an aromatic polyamide fiber manufactured and sold by Du Pont de Nemours Company. There may be more Kevlar strands as desired however three are shown as an example. The Kevlar strands may extend through apertures and which extend through the blocks.

When it is desired for the group of articulating blocks to assume a selected position then the blocks are constrained to move against each other with sufficient force. The various faces such as faces and then cause the articulating blocks to assume a desired position such as the positions shown in . or other positions. When it is desired for the blocks to form a flexible assembly then the blocks are permitted to move away from each other to thereby permit significant flexing. The constraining force may therefore either be variable so as to vary or the constraining may be a selected constant force that also permits flexing.

Other biasing means could also be used such as a biasing mechanism that produces a variable force. For instance extendable elements such as elements See unextended element in could be selectively extended. When extended as shown at A the pressure of flowing water against element A causes the lead block which might be block to compress the subsequent blocks together. When retracted as shown at the pressure is removed the blocks are not compressed against each other and so the cable is flexible. Retractable elements could be operated by relays servomotors and the like as desired.

While curved shapes are shown herein for platforms and A other shapes such as triangles rectangular shapes and the like could also be provided.

In summary the present invention preferably provides a suitable platform for towing that comprises a plurality of blocks. The blocks are constructed such that a constraining force will cause the blocks to be formed into a desired shape. The desired shape is conducive to improved radio reception and may be used as a platform for many different types of antennas. It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

