---

title: Electrolytic method to make alkali alcoholates using ion conducting alkali electrolyte/separator
abstract: Alkali alcoholates, also called alkali alkoxides, are produced from alkali metal salt solutions and alcohol using a three-compartment electrolytic cell. The electrolytic cell includes an anolyte compartment configured with an anode, a buffer compartment, and a catholyte compartment configured with a cathode. An alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte configured to selectively transport alkali ions is positioned between the anolyte compartment and the buffer compartment. An alkali ion permeable separator is positioned between the buffer compartment and the catholyte compartment. The catholyte solution may include an alkali alcoholate and alcohol. The anolyte solution may include at least one alkali salt. The buffer compartment solution may include a soluble alkali salt and an alkali alcoholate in alcohol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08075758&OS=08075758&RS=08075758
owner: Ceramatec, Inc.
number: 08075758
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061214
---
This application in a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Utility Patent Application Ser. No. 11 396 057 to Shekar Balagopal and Vinod K. Malhotra entitled Electrolytic Method to Make Alkali Alcoholates Using Ceramic ion Conducting Solid Membranes filed Mar. 31 2006 which was a divisional application of and claimed priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 010 822 to Shekar Balagopal and Vinod K. Malhotra entitled Electrolytic Method to Make Alkali Alcoholates using Ceramic Ion Conducting Solid Membranes filed Dec. 13 2004 which claimed priority under 35. U.S.C 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 528 612 filed Dec. 11 2003. This application s also a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. Ser. No. 11 449 953 filed Jun. 9 2006 which is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 010 822 filed Dec. 13 2004 which claimed priority under 35 U.S.C 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 528 612 filed Dec. 11 2003 U.S. patent application Ser Nos. 11 396 057 and 11 449 953 are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FG36 06GO6036 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to electrochemical production of alkali alcoholates also called alkali alkoxides and more particularly to the electrochemical production of alkali alcoholates from alkali metal salt solutions and alcohol using an electrolytic cell having an alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte and separator.

Alkali alcoholates are chemical compounds that are used in a wide variety of industrial applications. Electrolytic systems have been proposed for use in producing alkali alcoholates from salt solutions. In these systems various ion conducting solid electrolyte and separator material may be positioned between anolyte buffer and catholyte compartments for transportation of ions through the alkali ion conductor from one compartment to the other. The solid electrolyte is a specific alkali ion conductor made of polymeric materials or ceramic materials or combinations of ceramic and polymeric materials.

Polymeric materials are often used as electrolytes in the electrolysis of salt solutions because of their high conductivity and resistance to acidic and caustic environments. One disadvantage of polymers however is their low selectivity for ionic species. They may permit the desired alkali metal ions to pass through the membrane but they also allow the electroosmotic transport of water the result of which is an inefficient operation of the electrolytic cell.

One particularly useful alkali alcoholate is sodium methylate also called sodium methoxide. Sodium methoxide is made industrially in a sodium based process in which sodium metal is reacted with methanol to produce sodium methoxide. This method uses sodium metal as a raw material. However sodium metal is expensive and it may react violently with lower alcohols thus rendering the process difficult to control. Sodium metal also reacts violently with water requiring elaborate and expensive equipments and systems for storage handling and delivery of sodium metal.

Other commercial methods may include making sodium methoxide from a sodium amalgam produced from the chlor alkali electrolysis in a mercury cell by reacting amalgam with alcohol. The drawback of this process is that it can result in the contamination of the product and the environment with mercury a well known carcinogen. For this reason use of sodium methoxide produced by this method is in many cases unattractive for agriculture pharmaceuticals and bio diesel applications.

Thus it would be an improvement in the art to provide less expensive more efficient electrolytic methods of producing alkali alkoxides from alkali metal salt solutions using an alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte or ceramic membrane. It would further be an advancement in the art to provide such a method of making alkali alkoxides that is simple safe and environmentally benign. Such a method is provided herein.

In accordance with the present invention there is provided herein an electrolytic method of making alkali alcoholates also called alkali alkoxides. The method utilizes an electrolytic cell having at least three compartments an anolyte compartment configured with an anode a buffer compartment and a catholyte compartment configured with a cathode. An alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte configured to selectively transport alkali ions is positioned between the anolyte compartment and the buffer compartment. An alkali ion permeable separator is positioned between the buffer compartment and the catholyte compartment.

In the method a first catholyte solution is introduced into the catholyte compartment such that the first solution is in communication with the separator and the cathode. The first solution may include an alkali alcoholate and alcohol. A second anolyte solution is introduced into the anolyte compartment such that the second solution is in communication with the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte and the anode. The second solution may include at least one alkali salt and it may have a pH greater than about 4. A third solution is fed into the buffer compartment such that it is in communication with the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte and the separator. The third solution may include a soluble alkali salt and an alkali alcoholate in alcohol and it may have a pH greater than about 4.

An electric potential is applied to the electrolytic cell to cause a specific alkali ion to pass through the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte from the anolyte compartment into the buffer compartment. The alkali ions remain in solution in the buffer compartment and diffuse through the porous separator to the catholyte compartment where they react with alcohol to form alkali alcoholate. As alkali alcoholate is formed in the catholyte compartment an amount of alkali alcoholate is removed to maintain the concentration of the alkali alcoholate in the catholyte compartment between about 2 by weight and about 28 by weight of the contents of the catholyte compartment. In other embodiments the concentration of alkali alcoholate in the catholyte compartment may range from about 3 and 28 by weight from about 2 and 20 by weight and about 5 and 13 by weight of the solution. The concentration of alkali alcoholate affects the ionic conductivity of the solution. If the alkali alcoholate concentration is too low or too high high ionic resistance of the catholyte solution will lead to high operating voltages.

The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte is configured to selectively transport alkali ions. It may be a specific alkali ion conductor. For example the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be a solid MSICON Metal Super Ion CONducting material where M is Na K or Li. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may comprise a material having the formula MZrSiPOwhere 0 x 3 where M is Na K or Li. Other alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes may comprises a material having the formula MRESiOwhere M is Na K or Li where RE is Y Nd Dy or Sm or any mixture thereof. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may comprise a non stoichiometric alkali deficient material having the formula MRESiO REO.2SiO where M is Na K or Li where RE is Nd Dy or mixture thereof and where is the measure of deviation from stoichiometry. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be beta alumina.

The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be configured in the form of a monolithic flat plate a monolithic tube a monolithic honeycomb or supported structures of the foregoing. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be configured as a layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membrane comprising alkali ion selective polymers layered on alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials.

The separator must be permeable to alkali ions. It may be a porous ceramic or a polymer separator material. The separator may be a polyethylene a polypropylene organic or ceramic oxide material. The separator may be an alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte similar to the solid electrolyte separating the anolyte compartment and the buffer compartment.

The alcohol may include but is not limited to methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol tert butanol tert amyl alcohol and combinations thereof. The alkali alcoholate may include but is not limited to an alkali metal methoxide ethoxide n propoxide isopropoxide n butoxide tert butoxide tert amoxide wherein the alkali metal is sodium lithium or potassium. The alkali salt may be of the general formula MX where M is an alkali metal selected from Na K Li and mixtures thereof and X is an anion including but not limited to F Cl Br I OH NO NO SO ClO ClO HCO HCO CO HCOO PO and CHO and mixtures thereof.

The electrolytic method of making alkali alcoholates may be performed in a continuous or batch operation. In a continuous operation the first solution may be continuously introduced into the catholyte compartment. Similarly the second and third solutions may be continuously introduced into the anolyte and buffer compartments respectively. To be continuous solutions and or products must be continuously removed from the catholyte anolyte and buffer compartments. The electrolytic method may be performed more efficiently by recycling and reintroducing a portion of the solutions removed from the catholyte anolyte and buffer compartments back into the respective compartments.

The electrolytic method including anodic and cathodic reactions and cell operation may be performed at a temperature of about 25 C. to about 50 C. In other embodiments the electrolytic method may be performed at a temperature of about 40 C. to about 70 C.

In the electrolytic method the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may operate at a current density of between about 20 mA cmand about 180 mA cm. In one embodiment of the electrolytic method the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte operates at a current density of about 100 mA cm.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment but may refer to every embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

These features and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of cells membranes processes methods etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or method steps or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The embodiments of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the three compartment electrolytic cell using an alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte and separator of the present invention and processes using the three compartment electrolytic cell as represented in is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of the embodiments of the invention.

Disclosed herein are processes or methods for the production of non aqueous alkali alkoxides by electrolysis of an aqueous alkali metal salt solution in an electrolytic cell. Alkali alkoxides are sometime referred to as alkali alcoholates. In one embodiment the process includes the use of sodium ion conducting ceramic solid electrolytes. The method may include making solutions of sodium methoxide in methanol in an electrolytic cell from methanol and aqueous sodium hydroxide solution. The process described herein may also be used to make other alkali alkoxides in the corresponding alcohol in an electrolytic cell from alcohol and aqueous alkali metal salt solutions. For example in one embodiment the alkyl group is a lower alkyl. The processes and methods of the present invention could also be used to make other alkoxides including but not limited to methoxide ethoxide n propoxide propan 1 ol isopropoxide propan 2 ol n butoxide butan 1 ol tert butoxide 2 methylpropan 2 ol and tert amoxide 2 methylbutan 2 ol . It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that these alkoxides are commonly offered commercially as dry powders as solutions in the parent alcohol or quite often as solutions in other solvents such as cyclohexane toluene and tetrahydrofuran. Other alkoxides and forms of alkoxides are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and are included within the scope of the invention. Corresponding alcohols used to make alkoxides may include without limitation methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol tert butanol tert amyl alcohol and combinations thereof.

Referring to there is provided a schematic representation of an electrolytic cell that can be used in the methods for producing alkali alcoholates according to the present invention described herein. In one embodiment electrolytic cell is used to make solutions of alkali alcoholates. The electrolytic cell includes a container or shell which may be corrosion resistant. A separator and an alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte which may be positioned in or supported by a scaffold or holder together with the container defines a catholyte compartment an anolyte compartment and a buffer center compartment . The anolyte compartment is configured with an anode . The catholyte compartment is configured with a cathode .

The container and other parts of the electrolytic cell may be made of any suitable material including metal glass plastics composite ceramic other materials or combinations of the foregoing. The material that forms any portion of the electrolytic cell is preferably not reactive with or substantially degraded by the chemicals and conditions that it is exposed to as part of the electrolytic process.

The electrolytic cell further comprises an anolyte inlet for introducing chemicals into the anolyte compartment and an anolyte outlet for removing or receiving anolyte solution from the anolyte compartment . The cell also includes a buffer center compartment inlet for introducing chemicals into the center compartment and a buffer center compartment outlet for removing the solution from the center compartment . The cell also includes a catholyte inlet for introducing chemicals into the catholyte compartment and a catholyte outlet for removing or receiving catholyte solution from the catholyte compartment . It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the cell configuration and relative positions of the inlets and outlets may vary while still practicing the teachings of the invention.

Because gases may be evolved from the cell during operation venting means are provided to vent treat and or collect gases from the anolyte compartment and or catholyte compartment . The means may be a simple venting system such as openings pores holes and the like. The venting means may also include without limitation a collection tube hose or conduit in fluid communication with an airspace or gap above the fluid level in the anolyte and or catholyte compartments. The gases which are evolved may be collected vented to outside the electrolytic cell sent through a scrubber or other treatment apparatus or treated in any other suitable manner.

The anode and cathode materials may be good electrical conductors stable in the media to which they are exposed. Any suitable material may be used and the material may be solid plated perforated expanded or the like. In one embodiment the anode and cathode material is a dimensionally stable anode DSA which is comprised of ruthenium oxide coated titanium RuO Ti . Suitable anodes can also be formed from nickel cobalt nickel tungstate nickel titanate platinum and other noble anode metals as solids plated on a substrate such as platinum plated titanium. Stainless steel lead graphite tungsten carbide and titanium diboride are also useful anode materials. Suitable cathodes may be formed from metals such as nickel cobalt platinum silver and the like. The cathodes may also be formed from alloys such as titanium carbide with small amounts of nickel. In one embodiment the cathode is made of titanium carbide with less than about 3 nickel. Other embodiments include cathodes the include FeAl NiAl stainless steel perovskite ceramics and the like. Graphite is also a useful cathode material. In some embodiments the electrodes are chosen to maximize cost efficiency effectiveness by balancing electrical efficiency with low cost of electrodes.

The electrode material may be in any suitable form within the scope of the present invention as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some specific embodiments the form of the electrode materials may include at least one of the following a dense or porous solid form a dense or porous layer plated onto a substrate a perforated form an expanded form including a mesh or any combination thereof.

In some embodiments only electrolytic reactions occur in the cell and galvanic reactions are eliminated or greatly minimized. Accordingly the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be a specific alkali ion conductor which may include those which eliminate or minimize galvanic reactions and promote only electrolytic reactions. In one embodiment the alkali ion conductor has high ionic conductivity with minimal or negligible electronic conductivity. The alkali ion conductor may have high selectivity to preferred ionic species. The alkali ion conductor may also physically separate the anolyte compartment from the center buffer compartment. This may be accomplished using a dense alkali ion conductor. In one embodiment the solid alkali electrolyte has high ionic conductivity with minimal or negligible electronic conductivity.

In one embodiment the separator is polymer separator material. The separator may be a porous ceramic or polymer or an organic material that physically separates the catholyte compartment from the center buffer compartment. The separator may be of the type used to separate compartments in batteries. The porosity of the separator may be in the range from 30 to 45 porosity. The separator may be in the form of a alkali conducting solid electrolyte similar or identical to solid electrolyte .

In some embodiments for alkali alkoxide production the electrolytic cell may be operated at temperatures from about 20 C. to about 80 C. including about 25 C. 30 C. 40 C. 50 C. 60 C. and 70 C. and ranges of temperatures bounded by these enumerated temperatures. The temperature is maintained below the boiling point of the solutions used in the catholyte anolyte and buffer compartments. The electrolytic cell may also be operated at ambient pressure with the pressure in the three compartments being substantially equal.

The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte selectively transports a particular desired alkali metal cation species from the anolyte compartment to the buffer compartment even in the presence of other cation species. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may also be impermeable to water and or other undesired metal cations. In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte has a current density from about 0.3 to about 1 amp in about 50 to about 150 mA cm . In one embodiment the current through the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte is predominately ionic current.

In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte is substantially impermeable to at least the solvent components of both the second or anolyte solution and the third or buffer solution. These alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes may have low or even negligible electronic conductivity which virtually eliminates any galvanic reactions from occurring when an applied potential or current is removed from the cell containing the solid electrolyte . In another embodiment these alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes are selective to a specific alkali metal ion and hence a high transference number of preferred species implying very low efficiency loss due to near zero electro osmotic transport of water molecules.

A variety of alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials are known in the art and would be suitable for constructing the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte of the present invention as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In accordance with the present invention in some specific embodiments alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte compositions comprising an alkali metal ion super ionic conductor MSICON where M is Na K or Li materials are utilized for their characteristics of high ion conductivity for alkali ions at low temperatures selectivity for alkali ions current efficiency and chemical stability in water ionic solvents and corrosive alkali media under static and electrochemical conditions. Such alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes may have one or more or all of the following desirable characteristics which make them suitable for aqueous and non aqueous electrochemical applications. One characteristic is that being dense the solid electrolyte is at least substantially impervious to water transport and is not influenced by scaling or precipitation of divalent ions trivalent ions and tetravalent ions or dissolved solids present in the solutions. The solid electrolyte may selectively transport sodium ions in the presence of other ions at a transfer efficiency that is in some instances above 95 . In yet another embodiment the solid electrolyte provides resistance to fouling by precipitants and or electro osmotic transport of water which is common with organic or polymer membranes.

As noted above in some specific embodiments the alkali cation conducted by the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte is the sodium ion Na . In some specific embodiments sodium ion conducting ceramic membranes comprise materials of general formula NaZrSiPOwhere 0 x 3 as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 290 405. The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may include materials of general formula NaRESOand non stoichiometric sodium deficient materials of general formula NaRESiO REO.2SiO where RE is Nd Dy or Sm or any mixture thereof and where is the measure of deviation from stoichiometry as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 580 430. Analogs of these sodium conducting solid electrolyte materials transport other alkali ions such as Li and K. Such analogs may be used to produce other alkali alkoxides and are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The foregoing alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials are particularly useful in electrolytic systems for simultaneous production of alkali alkoxides by electrolysis of alkali e.g. sodium potassium lithium salt solutions.

In specific methods an alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte material separates the anolyte compartment from the center buffer compartment . The alkali ions transfer across the solid electrolyte from the anolyte to the center buffer compartment under the influence of electrical potential. Certain alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes do not allow transport of water therethrough which is useful in making the water free alkali alkoxides. It is desirable to limit the amount of water that enters the center buffer compartment as a way of preventing water from entering the catholyte compartment . Furthermore these solid electrolyte materials have low electronic conductivity superior corrosion resistance and high flux of specific alkali ions providing high ionic conductivity.

In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte compositions may include at least one of the following materials of general formula MMSiPOwhere 0 x 3 where M is selected from the group consisting of Li Na K or mixture thereof and where Mis selected from the group consisting of Zr Ge Ti Sn or Hf or mixtures thereof materials of general formula NaLZrPOwhere 0 z 2.0 and where L is selected from the group consisting of Cr Yb Er Dy Sc Fe In or Y or mixtures or combinations thereof materials of general formula MRESiO where Mmay be Li Na or any mixture or combination thereof and where RE is Y or any rare earth element. In some specific embodiments the solid electrolyte materials may include at least one of the following non stoichiometric materials zirconium deficient or sodium rich materials of general formula NaZrSiPOwhere 1.55 x 3. In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials may include at least one of the following non stoichiometric materials sodium deficient materials of general formula Na AZr SiP where A is selected from the group consisting of Yb Er Dy Sc In or Y or mixtures or combinations thereof 1.8 x 2.6 0 y 0.2 x z and is selected to maintain charge neutrality. In some specific embodiments the solid electrolyte materials may include sodium deficient materials of formula NaZrSiPO.

Other exemplary sodium super ion conducting materials NaSICON type materials are described by H. Y P. Hong in Crystal structures and crystal chemistry in the system NaZrSiPO Materials Research Bulletin Vol. 11 pp. 173 182 1976 J. B. Goodenough et al. in Fast Na ion transport skeleton structures Materials Research Bulletin Vol. 11 pp. 203 220 1976 J. J. Bentzen et al. in The preparation and characterization of dense highly conductive NaGdSiONaSICON NGS Materials Research Bulletin Vol. 15 pp. 1737 1745 1980 C. Delmas et al. in Crystal chemistry of the NaZrL PO L Cr In Yb solid solutions Materials Research Bulletin Vol. 16 pp. 285 290 1981 V. von Alpen et al. in Compositional dependence of the electrochemical and structural parameters in the NASICON system NaSiZrPO Solid State Ionics Vol. 3 4 pp. 215 218 1981 S. Fujitsu et al. in Conduction paths in sintered ionic conductive material NaYZr PO Materials Research Bulletin Vol. 16 pp. 1299 1309 1981 Y. Saito et al. in Ionic conductivity of NASICON type conductors NaMZr PO M Al Ga Cr Sc Fe In Yb Y Solid State Ionics Vol. 58 pp. 327 331 1992 J. Alamo in Chemistry and properties of solids with the NZP skeleton Solid State Ionics Vol. 63 65 pp. 547 561 1993 K. Shimazu in Electrical conductivity and Ti ion substitution range in NASICON system Solid State Ionics Vol. 79 pp. 106 110 1995 Y. Miyajima in Ionic conductivity of NASICON type NaMZrPO M Yb Er Dy Solid State Ionics Vol. 84 pp. 61 64 1996. These references are incorporated in their entirety herein by this reference.

While the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials disclosed herein encompass or include many formulations of alkali ion super ion conducting MSICON where M is an alkali metal materials this disclosure includes specific examples of ceramic membranes comprising NaSICON materials for the sake of simplicity. The focused discussion of NaSICON materials as one example of materials is not however intended to limit the scope of the invention. For example the materials disclosed herein as being highly conductive and having high selectivity include those alkali super ion conducting materials that are capable of transporting or conducting any alkali cation such as sodium Na lithium Li potassium K ions for producing alkali alkoxides.

The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials may be used or produced for use in the processes and apparatus of the present invention in any suitable form as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some specific embodiments the form of the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may include at least one of the following monolithic flat plate geometries supported structures in flat plate geometries monolithic tubular geometries supported structures in tubular geometries monolithic honeycomb geometries or supported structures in honeycomb geometries.

In another embodiment the solid electrolyte may be a supported membrane known to those of skill in the art. Supported structures or membranes may comprise dense layers of ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte supported on porous supports. A variety of forms for the supported membranes are known in the art and would be suitable for providing the supported membranes for alkali ion conducting ceramic membranes with supported structures including ceramic layers sintered to below full density with resultant continuous open porosity slotted form layers perforated form layers expanded form layers including a mesh or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the porosity of the porous supports is substantially continuous open porosity so that the liquid solutions on either side of the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may be in intimate contact with a large area of the dense layers of alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolytes and in some the continuous open porosity ranges from about 30 volume to about 90 volume . In some embodiments of the present invention the porous supports for the supported structures may be present on one side of the dense layer of alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte. In some embodiments of the present invention the porous supports for the supported structures may be present on both sides of the dense layer of alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte.

A variety of materials for the porous supports or supported membranes are known in the art and would be suitable for providing the porous supports for alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials including electrode materials NaSICON type materials alumina alumina other ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials and non conductive materials such as plastics or ceramic materials metals and metal alloys. The thickness of the dense layer of alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte material in monolithic structures is generally from about 0.3 mm to about 5 mm and in some instances from about 0.5 mm to about 1.5 mm. The thickness of the dense layer of alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte material in supported structures is generally from about 25 m to about 2 mm and often from about 0.5 mm to about 1.5 mm. Layers as thin as about 25 m to about 0.5 mm are readily producible as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some specific embodiments the porous substrate has similar thermal expansion and good bonding with the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte as well as good mechanical strength. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the number and configuration of the layers used to construct the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte as supported structures could be widely varied within the scope of the invention.

In some embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes may be composites of alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials with non conductive materials where the non conductive materials are poor ionic and electronic electrical conductors under the conditions of use. A variety of insulative non conductive materials are also known in the art as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some specific embodiments the non conductive materials may include at least one of the following ceramic materials polymers and or plastics that are substantially stable in the media to which they are exposed.

Layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membranes are also particularly suitable for use as alkali ion conducting solid electrolytes in the present invention. Layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membranes generally comprise ion selective polymers layered on alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials. In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials of the layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membranes may include at least one of the following alkali ion super ion conducting type materials or beta alumina. Ion selective polymer materials have the disadvantage of having poor selectively to sodium ions yet they demonstrate the advantage of high chemical stability. Therefore layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membranes of alkali ion conducting ceramic materials with chemically stable ionic selective polymer layers may be suitable for use in the present invention. In some specific embodiments the types of ion selective polymer materials which may be used in the layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite structure may include at least one of the following polyelectrolyte perfluorinated sulfonic polymers polyelectrolyte carboxylic acid polymers Nafion materials from E.I. du Pont de Nemours Wilmington Del. and polyvinyl chloride PVC matrix based polymers co polymers or block copolymers.

In some specific embodiments the polymers for the layered alkali ion conducting ceramic polymer composite membranes may include at least one of the following features and use characteristics as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art high chemical stability high ionic conductivity good adhesion to alkali ion conducting ceramic materials and or insensitivity to impurity contamination.

In some specific embodiments the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may comprise two or more co joined layers of different alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte materials. Such co joined alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte layers could include alkali ion super ion conducting materials joined to other alkali ion conducting ceramic materials such as but not limited to beta alumina. Such co joined layers could be joined to each other using a method such as but not limited to thermal spraying plasma spraying co firing joining following sintering etc. Other suitable joining methods are known by one of ordinary skill in the art and are included herein.

The alkali ion conducting ceramic solid electrolyte materials disclosed herein are particularly suitable for use in the electrolysis of alkali metal salt solutions because they have high ion conductivity for alkali metal cations at low temperatures high selectivity for alkali metal cations good current efficiency and stability in water and corrosive media under static and electrochemical conditions. Comparatively beta alumina is a ceramic material with high ion conductivity at temperatures above 300 C. but has low conductivity at temperatures below 100 C. making it less practical for applications below 100 C.

Sodium ion conductivity in NaSICON structures has an Arrhenius dependency on temperature generally increases as a function of temperature. The sodium ion conductivity of ceramic membranes comprising NaSICON materials ranges from about 1 10S cm to about 1 10S cm from room temperature to 85 C.

Alkali ion conducting ceramic membranes comprising NaSICON materials especially of the type described herein have low or negligible electronic conductivity and as such aid in virtually eliminating the occurrence of any galvanic reactions when the applied potential or current is removed. Certain NaSICON analogs according to the present invention have very mobile cations including but not limited to lithium sodium and potassium ions that provide high ionic conductivity low electronic conductivity and comparatively high corrosion resistance.

The alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte may have flat plate geometry tubular geometry or supported geometry. The solid electrolyte may be sandwiched between two pockets made of a chemically resistant HDPE plastic and sealed by compression loading using a suitable gasket or O ring such as an EPDM ethylene propylene diene monomer rubber gasket or O ring.

The phrase significantly impermeable to water as used herein means that a small amount of water may pass through the solid electrolyte but that the amount that passes through is not of a quantity to diminish the usefulness of the sodium methoxide solution product. The phrase essentially impermeable to water as used herein means that no water passes through or that if water passes through the solid electrolyte its passage is so limited so as to be undetectable by conventional means. The words significantly and essentially are used similarly as intensifiers in other places within this specification.

The separator disposed between the catholyte compartment and the center buffer compartment is permeable to alkali ions. It physically separates the catholyte solution in the compartment from the buffer solution in the buffer compartment. It may be a porous ceramic or a polymer separator material. The separator may be an alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte similar or identical to the solid electrolyte separating the anolyte compartment and the buffer compartment. The separator may be a polymeric alkali cation conductive membrane.

In one embodiment of the present invention it may be advantageous to employ polymeric alkali cation conductive membranes that are substantially impermeable to at least the solvent components of both the buffer solution in the center buffer compartment and the catholyte solution in the catholyte compartment. The polymeric cation conductive membrane materials are substantially stable in the media to which they are exposed. A variety of polymeric cation conductive membrane materials are known in the art and would be suitable for constructing the polymeric cation conductive membrane of the present invention as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some specific embodiments the polymeric cation conductive membranes may include at least one of the following NEOSEPTA cation exchange membranes ASTOM Corporation Japan a joint company of Tokuyama Corporation and Asahi Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. such as grades NEOSEPTA CM 1 NEOSEPTA CM 2 NEOSEPTA CMX NEOSEPTA CMS or NEOSEPTA CMB Ionac MC 3470 cation membrane Sybron Chemicals Inc N.J. ULTREX CMI 7000 cation membrane Socada LLC NJ DuPont NAFION films E.I. du Pont de Nemours Wilmington Del. such as grades NAFION N112 NAFION N115 NAFION N117 NAFION N1110 NAFION NE1035 NAFION NE1135 NAFION PFSA NRE 211 or NAFION PFSA NRE 212 and PC SK cation membrane PCA GmbH Germany .

The polymeric cation conductive membranes may be used or produced for use in the processes and apparatus of the present invention in any suitable form as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some specific embodiments the form of the polymeric cation conductive membranes may include at least one of the following monolithic planar geometries supported structures in planar geometries supported structures in tubular geometries or supported structures in honeycomb geometries. Supported structures may comprise dense layers of polymeric cation conductive materials supported on porous supports. A variety of forms for the porous supports are known in the art and would be suitable for providing the porous supports for polymeric cation conductive membranes with supported structures including ceramic layers sintered to below full density with resultant continuous open porosity slotted form layers perforated form layers expanded form layers including a mesh or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the porosity of the porous supports is substantially continuous open porosity so that the liquid solutions on either side of the polymeric cation conductive membrane may be in intimate contact with a large area of the dense layers of polymeric cation conductive materials and in some the continuous open porosity ranges from about 30 volume to about 90 volume . In some embodiments of the present invention the porous supports for the supported structures may be present on one side of the dense layer of polymeric cation conductive material. In some embodiments of the present invention the porous supports for the supported structures may be present on both sides of the dense layer of polymeric cation conductive material. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the number and configuration of the layers used to construct the polymeric cation conductive membrane as supported structures could be widely varied within the scope of the invention.

In embodiments of the electrolytic cell the catholyte solution comprises one or more alkali alkoxides also known as alkali alcoholates in one or more alcohols the anolyte solution comprises one or more aqueous inorganic and or organic alkali salts and the center buffer solution comprises an alkali salt and one or more alkali alkoxides in one or more alcohols. The alkali salt in the center buffer solution is preferably soluble in the one or more alcohols. The alkali salt in the anolyte solution may or may not be the same as the alkali salt in the center buffer solution. The alkali salt may be of the general formula MX where M is an alkali metal selected from Na K Li and mixtures thereof and X is an anion including but not limited to F Cl Br I OH NO NO SO ClO ClO HCO HCO CO HCOO PO and CHO and mixtures thereof.

In one embodiment the electrolytic cell may be operated as a continuous operation in a continuous mode or as a batch operation in a batch mode . For example in continuous operation or mode a first or catholyte solution is introduced into the catholyte compartment of the electrolytic cell . A second or anolyte solution is introduced into the anolyte compartment . A third or buffer solution is introduced into the center buffer compartment . Thus the anolyte compartment is initially filled with anolyte solution comprising an alkali metal salt solution the buffer compartment is initially filled with a buffer solution comprising an alkali metal salt in a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol and the catholyte compartment is initially filled with catholyte solution comprising a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol. The catholyte solution preferably has a composition of between about 2 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 28 by weight alkali alkoxides in solution.

An electric potential is applied across the electrolytic cell via anode and cathode and then during operation additional solutions are fed or introduced into the cell through the inlets and products by products and or diluted solutions are removed from the cell through the outlets and or the venting means without ceasing operation of the cell whilst maintaining the composition of the solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol in the catholyte compartment to comprise between about 2 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 28 by weight alkali alkoxide.

In another embodiment of continuous operation for the electrolytic cell the anolyte compartment is initially filled with anolyte solution comprising an alkali metal salt solution. The catholyte compartment is initially filled with catholyte solution comprising a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol with a composition of between at least about 3 by weight alkali alkoxide and at most about 28 by weight alkali alkoxides. The center buffer compartment is initially filled with a buffer solution comprising an alkali metal salt in a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol. An electric potential is applied across the electrolytic cell via anode and cathode and then during operation additional solutions are fed or introduced into the cell through the inlets and products by products and or diluted solutions are removed from the cell through the outlets and or the venting means without ceasing operation of the cell whilst maintaining the composition of the solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol in the catholyte compartment to comprise between at least about 3 by weight alkali alkoxide and at most about 28 by weight alkali alkoxide.

In another embodiment of continuous operation for the electrolytic cell the anolyte compartment is initially filled with anolyte solution comprising an alkali metal salt solution. The catholyte compartment is initially filled with catholyte solution comprising a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol with a composition of between about 5 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 13 by weight alkali alkoxide. The center buffer compartment is initially filled with a buffer solution comprising an alkali metal salt in a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol. An electric potential is applied across the electrolytic cell via anode and cathode and then during operation additional solutions are fed introduced into the cell through the inlets and products by products and or diluted solutions are removed from the cell through the outlets and or the venting means without ceasing operation of the cell whilst maintaining the composition of the solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol in the catholyte compartment to comprise between about 5 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 13 by weight alkali alkoxide.

Continuous operation may include introducing or feeding the first or catholyte solution the second or anolyte solution or the third or buffer solution continuously or intermittently such that the flow of a given solution is initiated or stopped according to the need for the solution and or to maintain desired concentrations of solutions in the cell without emptying one or more compartments. Similarly continuous operation may include the removal of solutions from the anolyte compartment and the catholyte compartment continuously or intermittently. Control of the addition and or removal of solutions from the cell may be done by any suitable means. Such means include manual operation such as by one or more human operators and automated operation such as by using sensors electronic valves laboratory robots etc. operating under computer or analog control. In automated operation a valve or stopcock may be opened or closed according to a signal received from a computer or electronic controller on the basis of a timer the output of a sensor or other means. Examples of automated systems are well known in the art. Some combination of manual and automated operation may also be used. Alternatively the amount of each solution that is to be added or removed per unit time to maintain a steady state may be experimentally determined for a given cell and the flow of solutions into and out of the system set accordingly to achieve the steady state flow conditions.

In certain embodiments introducing a first solution into the catholyte compartment includes recycling at least a portion of the solution received from the catholyte compartment back into the catholyte compartment. Additionally introducing a second solution into the anolyte compartment comprises recycling at least a portion of the solution received from the anolyte compartment back into the anolyte compartment. Likewise introducing a third solution into the buffer compartment comprises recycling at least a portion of the solution received from the buffer compartment back into the buffer compartment. In this manner solution concentrations and pH levels in the respective compartments may be controlled or managed. For example in one embodiment the pH of the solution in the anolyte compartment is above about pH 4. In another embodiment the pH of the solution in the buffer compartment is above about pH 4. Various pH levels can be maintained and or controlled in any compartment in the production of alkali alkoxides.

In another embodiment the electrolytic cell may be operated as a batch operation in a batch mode. In one embodiment of batch operation for the electrolytic cell the anolyte compartment is initially filled with anolyte solution comprising an alkali metal salt solution. The catholyte compartment is initially filled with catholyte solution comprising a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol with a composition of between about 2 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 20 by weight alkali alkoxide. The center buffer compartment is initially filled with a buffer solution comprising an alkali metal salt in a solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol. An electric potential is applied across the electrolytic cell via anode and cathode and the electrolytic cell is operated with by products removed from the cell through venting means until the desired concentration of alkali alkoxide in alcohol is produced in the catholyte compartment whilst maintaining the composition of the solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol in the catholyte compartment to comprise between about 2 by weight alkali alkoxide and about 28 by weight alkali alkoxide. The electrolytic cell is then emptied the alkali alkoxide in alcohol product collected or received and the electrolytic cell refilled to start the process again. Similar batch mode operation may be performed with varying initial solution concentrations.

It should be noted that both continuous and batch operation may have dynamic flow of solutions. In one embodiment for continuous mode operation anolyte make up solution is added via anolyte inlet to maintain the alkali ion concentration at a certain concentration in the anolyte compartment . In one embodiment of batch mode operation a certain quantity of alkali ions are removed from anolyte compartment due to alkali ion transfer through the alkali ion conducting solid electrolyte into the buffer compartment . The buffer compartment is intended to maintain a substantially constant alkali ion concentration such that as alkali ions enter the buffer compartment from the anolyte compartment a substantially equal amount of alkali ions transfer through the separator into the catholyte compartment . Batch mode operation is stopped when the alkali ion concentration in the anolyte compartment reduces to a certain amount or when the appropriate alkali alkoxide concentration is reached in the catholyte compartment whilst maintaining the composition of the solution of alkali alkoxide in alcohol in the catholyte compartment to comprise between about 2 by weight alkyl alkoxide and about 28 by weight alkyl alkoxide.

The following examples are given to illustrate various embodiments within the scope of the present invention. These are given by way of example only and it is understood that the following examples are not comprehensive or exhaustive of the many types of embodiments of the present invention that can be prepared in accordance with the present invention.

A three compartment electrolytic cell as shown in was operated at 50 C. in a batch mode. The solid electrolyte membrane was a sodium ion conductive solid ceramic electrolyte and the separator was a porous polymer separator. The anolyte solution in the anolyte compartment included aqueous sodium hydroxide. The catholyte solution in the catholyte compartment included sodium methoxide in methanol. The buffer solution in the buffer compartment included sodium iodide and sodium methoxide in methanol. The anolyte catholyte and feed to the center buffer compartment were continually circulated recycled . In the test the electrolytic cell was operated in a galvanostatic mode. Under the influence of an electric field a voltage and direct current was applied to the anode and cathode electrodes. The voltage and direct current were measured and reported graphically in . The electrode reactions caused Na ions to transport from the aqueous sodium hydroxide anolyte anolyte compartment through the ion conducting solid electrolyte into the middle buffer compartment where Na ions exchange with the buffer solution NaI sodium methoxide in methanol . The electrode reactions are summarized below Anode 2NaOH 2Na O HO 2e 1 Cathode 2CHOH 2e 2Na2NaOCH H 2 Overall 2NaOH 2CHOH 2NaOCH H O HO 3 

The Na ions passed through the polymer separator and into the third catholyte compartment where they reacted to from the sodium methoxide in methanol alkali metal alcoholate .

The buffer compartment within the scope of the present invention helps prevent water from transporting from the anolyte compartment to the catholyte compartment. It is preferred to avoid water contamination of the alkali alcoholate in alcohol produced in the catholyte compartment. The buffer compartment provides a buffer zone which captures water that may enter the buffer compartment from the anolyte compartment. In this manner the buffer compartment permits the use of low cost aqueous alkali salts in the anolyte compartment.

Another purpose of the buffer compartment is to provide high alkali ion conductivity. The alkali salts used within the buffer compartment are preferably highly soluble in alcohol. A wide selection of suitable alkali salts may be used in the buffer compartment.

The methods of the present invention including those described above are clean in that essentially all materials made from the process are useful recyclable and or not environmentally harmful. For example the dilute caustic solution discharged from the anolyte compartment via anolyte outlet may be concentrated and then used again including being recycled back into this process. The oxygen and hydrogen gases produced at the anolyte compartment and the catholyte compartment respectively may be collected transported and or pressurized for use. The gas may also be run through a condenser or a scrubber to remove impurities. The hydrogen gas produced can be used as a fuel or in an alternative energy source such as fuel cells. In one embodiment the hydrogen gas produced by the cell is used directly or indirectly to power the cell and or its components. Alternatively the gaseous output may be vented to the environment with or without the use of scrubbers fire suppressors or other safety precautions.

Methods using sodium hydroxide as a starting solution may also be generally cost effective as compared to other methods where sodium metal is reacted directly with methanol to form sodium methoxide. Sodium hydroxide is easier and safer to handle than sodium metal which requires special storage handling and delivery systems to prevent auto ignition of sodium metal or its violent exothermic reaction with water in the environment. Sodium hydroxide is generally also less expensive than sodium metal for an equivalent molar quantity of sodium atoms.

The alkyl alkoxide produced in one embodiment has a high purity with the purity being primarily limited by the purity of alcohol that is used as a starting material. Alkyl alkoxide solutions are also substantially free of mercury and or other heavy metals. As used herein substantially free of mercury is a broad functional term that includes where there is essentially no mercury detectable within test limits essentially free and where there is a small amount of mercury detected but not at a quantity to limit the material s use in biodiesel production. In one embodiment the amount of mercury in the solution is not detectable by methods of detection used in the art. In another embodiment the sodium alkoxide solution is colorless or substantially colorless.

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described numerous modifications come to mind without significantly departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of protection is only limited by the scope of the accompanying claims.

