---

title: Automatic search functionality within business applications
abstract: Disclosed herein is an integration of automatic search functionality into a business application. The application is monitored for an instance wherein the user is initiating an activity that involves an expenditure. Upon detection of such an activity, a query is automatically generated based on information related to the expenditure. The query is communicated to a search component, from which corresponding search results are eventually received. Finally, at least some information related to the search results is displayed to the user. In one embodiment, assuming the user's express or implicit approval, auto-generation of data and/or modification of business process flow are facilitated based on the search results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024235&OS=08024235&RS=08024235
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08024235
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060621
---
Sparked by Internet technology there has been a dramatic proliferation of business data published and made available to users of computing devices. However it is common for business data to be scattered across a broad range of different data stores associated with a variety of different data sources. Under the circumstances efficiently accessing relevant data when it is needed can be a real challenge.

Currently a user using a computing device to accomplish a business task often must stop what he or she is doing in order to manually navigate through different data stores to find a data item that is likely to be relevant to current needs. In most cases the tools provided to support navigation through data are completely separate from the tools being utilized for business purposes. It is not uncommon for a user to be forced to switch back and forth between a business application and an application configured to support data searching.

In many cases the process of identifying relevant business data requires a user to sift through search results e.g. often in a list format on a trial and error basis in order to determine relevancy of data to current needs. The queries utilized to request the search results are not commonly configured to take contextual considerations into account such as why the user is searching for certain information or the kind of information most likely to be useful to the user performing the query. Often times query refining becomes necessary to efficiently locate relevant results. Sometimes re querying using different syntax or search terms is the most efficient option. A user is often relied upon to make good and informed search strategy decisions to get to information that satisfies current needs.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended for use as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Further the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted anywhere in the present description.

Disclosed herein is an integration of automatic search functionality into a business application. The application is monitored for an instance wherein the user is initiating an activity that involves an expenditure. Upon detection of such an activity a query is automatically generated based on information related to the expenditure. The query is communicated to a search component from which corresponding search results are eventually received. Finally at least some information related to the search results is displayed to the user. In one embodiment assuming the user s express or implicit approval auto generation of data and or modification of business process flow are facilitated based on the search results.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

With the proliferation of business data being published on the Web and in other electronically accessible mediums opportunities exist to integrate a business application with automatic search functionality. This functionality can then be exploited for many purposes such as to reduce manual processing of business documents through intelligent auto generation and or to intelligently modify business process flow. As will become apparent the value of integrating search is particularly high where the search process is configured to account for contextual considerations that are customized for the user.

In accordance with block a user interacts with a business application . In accordance with block a query is generated. This query generation step is illustratively accomplished by a query processing component that may be part of application but may be otherwise implemented e.g. as part of an operating system a service delivered over a network etc. .

As will become apparent the generated query is different than a traditional query based on one or more search terms input by the user specifically for the purpose of searching or querying. In fact as is emphasized by boxes and the query parameters may or may not include data contemporaneously received from the user. As is indicted by block the query is communicated to one or more search components . While the precise nature of components is not critical to the present invention in one embodiment components include one or more on line services such as an Internet based search engine or an advertising engine.

As is shown in the communication of the query e.g. communication initiated by application or component involves communicating search parameters . As is indicated by blocks through the precise nature of the query search parameters is flexible and could vary from one implementation to the next. Search parameters can include any or all of data contemporaneously input by user box data input by user historically box data input or associated with users other than user box data related to a context in which user is using application box any business data associated with application or another application box any accounting data associated with application or another application box or any other data box . An example not by limitation of process context that can be reflected in parameters is information related the identity of a particular step in a business flow within the application. An example not by limitation of user input or context data that can be reflected in the parameters is contemporaneously or historically values input by the user such as SIC codes pricing information margin information etc.

Search component s process the received query based on some or all of search parameters . This leads to the production of search results which are communicated back to business application . In one embodiment a component such as query processing component organizes and or reformats search parameters into certain formats desirable for certain search component s . In another embodiment however a searching component is configured to analyze search parameters and target results accordingly e.g. an advertising service . Box represents receipt by application of search results .

In one aspect of the present invention search results are utilized to enhance user s experience within application . This process may be handled by application by query processing component or by a different independent component not illustrated . In accordance with box search results are utilized as a basis for providing auto generation functionality. For example based on the search results fields within a display may be automatically filled in or at least suggestions for filling in fields may be provided for user s acceptance or dismissal. In accordance with box search results are utilized as a basis for modifying the flow of a business process within application . For example based on the search results certain different forms and or processes may be automatically implemented or at least suggestions for different forms and or processes may be provided for user s acceptance or dismissal. As is represented by box some implementations may incorporate a user approval process that enables a user to accept or reject changes or proposed changes.

In one aspect of the present invention system is configured to provide great benefit to user by automatically and implicitly search for information that might impact a business decision while that decision is being acted upon in application . Further the searching process can be based on contextual characteristics of the decision being made e.g. application context data being currently input pre existing data user context e.g. user identity or role within an organization and or other data. In this manner user is automatically presented with choices that may be better than the current choice. Assuming implicit or explicit user consent based on the search results the decision itself can be changed process flow can be changed auto generation can be implemented and or other outcomes can be triggered as appropriate for a given implementation.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are many ways to implement a system in accordance the present invention and that the illustrated configuration is but one example. Further within a given implementation the illustrated components may have a different functionality. For example query processing component could be implemented as a data abstraction service that publishes search parameters to various search services . In this case the search parameters illustratively include business data in a canonical format. The abstraction service can be configured to transform the canonical data format to satisfy specific format requirements for each search service. This is just one example of a similar but different implementation that should be considered within the scope of the present invention.

In order to further solidify the present description a more specific example will now be provided. For the purpose of the example it will be assumed that business application is a small business accounting application configured to employ query processing component to publish data i.e. search parameters including inventory data and contextual data to an Internet based data service . Data service processes the search parameters and returns results to query processing component . Component then cooperates with application in order to support an automatic alteration of a purchase order and or a purchase order document. It should be emphasized that the present invention is not limited to the details of this one particular example.

To continue the example it will now be assumed that the inventory data included in search parameters is transmitted to search component s in a canonical format that can include not by limitation any of a product name a product description a UPC code price e.g. normal and or sale etc. In addition to these types of product information the business application may also have extensive information about business location and contact information e.g. e mail fax phone etc. . Depending on implementation details the published inventory data can also be tagged with this and other information. The search component s to which data is transmitted can include not by limitation online search engines comparison shopping engines advertising networks marketplaces etc.

Continuing with the example is an example of a screenshot associated with a small business accounting software application. As is indicated by title bar the application is currently in a mode related to business interactions with vendors. Oval demonstrates that this mode may have been entered into following selection of a vendor tab. As is indicated by oval the user next selects a new purchase order function associated with a display element.

In screenshot the user is entering in a purchase order from a vendor noted as Contoso Supplier. As is indicated by oval the order is to purchase trail bikes. The user has entered a quantity of 10 at a list price of 825 per bike. As has been described herein while the user interacts with the application so as to participate in the process of creating a purchase order a searching process is carried out behind the scenes.

More specifically an automatic context sensitive search is carried out without requiring the user s attention to be switched to facilitating the search. The search is conducted based on indirectly derived search parameters such as but not limited to the information that the user has entered into the various fields application context e.g. purchase order context or any appropriate business data e.g. price vendor number of units historic price range for same product delivery date details as to historical purchases market data etc. . Some of the search parameters may effect where the search is directed to e.g. different searches may be directed to different searching components based on different application context indications or searches may be limited to entities that can guarantee delivery by a certain date etc. . Of course some search parameters will be utilized as search query terms to be applied by the searching component.

Panels and contain indications of the results of a search carried out by a searching component. Panel shows products and services from different venders that are the same or similar to the target of the purchase order. In this case as is indicated by oval the search produced an indication that the same bike is available from a different vendor for a lower price. Panel shows alternate vendors e.g. for the same product that were encountered as a result of the searching process.

Thus when the user creates a purchase order for an items or items e.g. a trail bike targeted at an existing supplier query processing component illustratively aggregates appropriate search parameters and communicates them to an appropriate searching component s . In particular component queries search engines comparison shopping engines and or marketplace engines for better price matches or alternate items. This search is done in the context of the application e.g. without leaving the application e.g. not in an Internet browser application .

Further the searching process can be leveraged to account for some level of understanding of the relevant business process e.g. creating a purchase order inherently is a purchase with certain parameters like item quantity price delivery date etc. . . . all of which can be utilized as a basis for query . In one embodiment the searching process is executed against a subset of all available search information providers e.g. appropriate comparison search engines and appropriate marketplaces with searching qualified by attributes relevant to the business process e.g. item UPC description item attributes cost delivery capacity etc. automatically. Thus the user need not explicitly use information to search or initiate the search. The search is automatically done on behalf of the user. On completion of the search the positive results e.g. in the illustrated case items that are similar with lower prices better availability dates etc. are presented to the user within the context of the business process.

It should again be emphasized that the present invention is in no way limited to a purchase order context. This is but one example of an implementation of how the described integrated search features can be implemented. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the same or similar concepts can be applied in many other scenarios without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Thus the present subject matter deals with an integration of automatic context based search functionality into business applications. Two illustrative applicable computing devices will now be described.

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described herein in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Programs are illustrated to demonstrate that at least one program can be configured to support business integrated search functionality as described herein. This need not necessarily be the case for any or all of the programs. Further the support can be implemented from outside of the actual application. Further programs can also or alternatively be so configured.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. Programs are illustrated to demonstrate that at least one program can be configured to support integrated search functionality as described herein. This need not necessarily be the case for any or all of the programs. Further programs can also or alternatively be so configured. Also the functionality can be implemented from outside of the actual application despite being depicted as internal.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Programs are illustrated to indicate that at least one program supports integrated search functionality as described herein. This need not necessarily be the case for any or all of the programs. Also the functionality can be implemented from outside of the actual application despite the internal location in the Figure. In one embodiment computer is a server device containing a search component for supporting the server side functionality of the integrated search functionality described herein.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . Programs are illustrated to indicate that at least one program supports the integrated search functionality described herein. This need not necessarily be the case for any or all of the programs. During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

