---

title: Logical representation of a user interface form
abstract: User interface (UI) forms are rendered on different types of display targets. To generate a UI form that can be rendered on different types of display targets metadata stored in at least one application is transformed to build a logical user interface (UI) representation. The UI form is rendered on at least one of the different types of display targets based on the logical UI representation. Data and form layout from the at least one application is accessed for representation in the logical UI representation. The rendered UI form is populated with the data represented in the logical UI representation to provide content for the rendered UI form.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07584416&OS=07584416&RS=07584416
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07584416
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060221
---
Enterprise resource planning ERP and customer relationship management CRM are phrases used to describe a broad set of activities supported by multi module application software that helps a company or merchant manage the important parts of its business. Computerized ERP or CRM systems typically handle the logistics of various activity modules internal to a business or organization such as accounting financial management customer relations management supply chain management and human resource management. Example ERP system and CRM system software packages include Microsoft Dynamics AX Microsoft Dynamics GP Microsoft Dynamics NAV Microsoft Dynamics SL and Microsoft Dynamics CRM.

ERP and CRM systems utilize a large number of files that are part of a collection of information generally in tabular form that are stored in a database shared by various management application modules in each system. On top of these large number of files exists business logic that can change the structure and behavior of the data. Both the tabular form of data and structure presented by the business logic can be considered the data source for each ERP or CRM system. In addition to a data source existing in an ERP or CRM system a data source can exist within a web service that exposes data in one way or another. These files represent widely varying types of information for example including information related to transactions such as sales orders purchase orders bill payments and information related to customers and vendors.

In ERP systems CRM systems and other forms based applications a large number of forms or form user interfaces are used to view information in the data source as well as used for entering information into a database. A form is a type of user interface UI element for viewing data and or entering data. A UI form is physically represented on a display target. If an ERP or CRM system is connected to a conventional Windows display target then example forms that would need to be constructed by a developer include Window forms. If an ERP or CRM system is connected to an Internet browser display target then example forms that would need to be constructed by a developer include web forms or web element forms.

Many ERP and CRM systems include the use of the classic Windows UI accompanied by the Internet browser UI. In this case a developer constructs a UI form for each type of display target and each type of data source. In the near future personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones and other portable and non portable UI technologies will accompany the use of the Windows UI and the Internet browser UI. The addition of new UI technologies will add to the complexity and amount of forms that need to be constructed by a developer. In addition typically data sources each have their own approach to constructing UI forms.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

During design time a developer creates a logical client or logical model that describes how data structures are transformed for use in making UI forms. The logical client can be modeled based on a plurality of different applications and can allow the rendering of UI forms on a plurality of different display targets. The logical client includes at least a session module and a builder module. During run time the builder builds a logical UI representation that can be used to render a UI form on different types of display targets. To render a UI form one of the display target initiates a session provided by the session module. The session validates the user s credentials and instantiates one of the plurality of builder instances of the builder module that corresponds with metadata for a type of UI form. The builder instance reads and transforms metadata from a application source. The builder instance builds a logical UI representation that includes content pertaining to logical forms controls actions and databinders. The content of the logical UI representation is independent of the source of data and independent of the display target which it will be rendered. Content of the logical UI representation is exposed to at least one display target for rendering of a UI form. The display target renders the UI form in accordance a type of the display target.

The following description of illustrative embodiments is described in the context of forms based business applications such as client applications client server applications and various types of multi tier applications. However the description of illustrative embodiments can also be used in other types of form based applications. A common type of business application includes an Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system or Customer Relationship Management CRM system that can manage many different business modules of a company or a merchant. These form based applications include forms constructed by a developer that are to be rendered by a display target. A form is a window dialog page or other type of user interface UI element for viewing and or entering information. A display target renders a physical representation of a UI form. Example display targets that can render a form include each rendering technology on the multiple types of current and future operating systems such as Windows the rendering technology of an Internet browser as well as each rendering technology on the many available or future mobile devices such as personal digital assistants and cell phones.

Before describing aspects of the illustrated embodiments however it may be useful to describe suitable computing environments that can incorporate and benefit from these aspects. ERP and CRM systems are typically implemented in a networked environment of server computers and or other computers. The computing environment shown in is one such example.

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules are located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer is operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is preferably used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is preferably executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one preferred embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is preferably designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Logical client includes at least one builder module and a session module . During run time one of the display targets display target as illustrated in initiates a session of session module . Session module instantiates the at least one builder module . Each application is configured to construct their own builders. The at least one builder module is configured to build a logical user interface UI representation that captures the logical intent of a UI form. The creation of a logical UI representation allows the underlying logic and content of a UI form to be reused across multiple different display targets while being based on multiple different applications or backends . In other words logical UI representation is described in non specific terms or concepts such that it is not specific to any of the given display targets or any of the given applications . In builder module builds logical UI representation based on application and allows display target to render the UI form. It should be noted however that although logical UI representation is based on application logical UI representation is independent of a type of application . In addition although logical UI representation allows display target to render the UI form logical UI representation is independent of a type of display target . Logical UI representation is able to allow the rendering of a UI form on other display targets such as display targets and . A method of rendering a UI form on a display target is described in detail in connection with below.

During run time session module instantiates the at least one builder module . Each application includes the ability to construct their own builders that can understand their own metadata. The at least one builder module constructs logical UI representation in accordance with a computer implemented method illustrated in a flowchart of . Basically builder transforms metadata into logical UI representation in accordance with flowchart . Builder module constructed by its corresponding application reflects over metadata of one of the applications such that builder module can build logical UI representation using information from an application source on how the UI form should be constructed.

Referring to both at least one databinder module having a plurality of databinders is created at block . The created databinder is generally specialized to bind to the data in a corresponding application . Although illustrates a single databinder module it should be understood that builder can create more than one databinder module for logical UI representation . In general a databinder module can be created for each type of application that information is being obtained. This step is illustrated at block . In databinder module is configured to represent data from database of application . Although the data represented in databinder module is based on database data represented in databinder module is independent of a type of application .

At block an actions module having a plurality of actions is created. Actions module is configured to represent operations available to a user from application . Although operations represented in actions module are mostly based on application logic in application operations represented in actions module are independent of the type of application . Both databinder module and actions module can be considered to be in a layer of logical UI representation in connection with applications because their content depends on the underlying application .

At block a logical forms and control module is created. Logical forms and controls module represents an interface between at least one display target and databinder module and actions module . It should be noted that logical forms and controls module can represent an interface between other display targets and databinder module and actions module . Logical forms and controls module handles user interaction from display target as well as supplies state events from logical forms and controls module to display target for use rendering a UI form to a user. Logical forms and controls module can be considered to be in a layer of logical UI representation in connection with display targets because the rendering of UI forms on display targets is based on the underlying logical forms and controls module .

At block the at least one databinder module is configured to access data from the at least one application . Databinder module accesses data in application source such as in database . Databinder module represents the data in application source as a data structure that is independent of a type of application . The data structure expresses data in terms of how data should be displayed in a UI form. At block the actions module is configured to access logic from the at least one application . Actions module accesses logic in application logic of application source . Actions module represents and includes operations available to a user for performing on the data structure represented by databinder module . At block logical forms and controls module are created for use in exposing content of logical UI representation to the at least one display target .

To build a logical UI representation using a builder to transform metadata display target first initiates a session using session module as illustrated in block . A session of session module is responsible for validating a user s credentials instantiating a builder or builders and notifying display targets when new UI forms are ready for rendering. Therefore session module raises an event for notification to a display target before a UI form is to be rendered onto a display target. In other words session module raises an event prior to step being performed.

Prior to populating the rendered form with data in the logical UI representation the controls of logical forms and controls module can be first exposed to a control adapter as indicated in block . Each type of display target includes a control adapter . Each control adapter adapts the controls of the logical UI representation into controls in the display target i.e. native controls or controls native to the display target . In other words control adapter translates the logical UI representation such that the native controls of the display target can understand the content of logical UI representation and populate data on a rendered UI form in accordance with the type of display target that control adapter is adapting for.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

