---

title: Multi-pass speech analytics
abstract: Included are embodiments for multi-pass analytics. At least one embodiment of a method includes receiving audio data associated with a communication, performing first tier speech to text analytics on the received audio data, and performing second tier speech to text analytics on the received audio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07752043&OS=07752043&RS=07752043
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07752043
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
As communication technologies have improved businesses and individuals have desired greater functionality in their communication networks. As a nonlimiting example many businesses have created call center infrastructures in which a customer or other user can call to receive information related to the business. As customers call into the call center the customer may be connected with a customer service representative to provide the desired information. Depending on the time of call the subject matter of the call and or other data the customer may be connected with different customer service representatives. As such depending on these and or other factors the customer may be provided with varying levels of customer service with respect to the interaction with the customer service representative. Because most businesses desire to provide the highest possible quality of customer service many businesses have turned to recording the communication between the customer and the customer service representative. While recording this data has proven beneficial in many cases many businesses receive call volumes that inhibit the business from reviewing all of the call data received.

As such many businesses have turned to speech recognition technology to capture the recorded communication data and thereby provide a textual document for review of the communication. While textual documentation of a communication has also proven beneficial similar issues may exist in that the sheer amount of data may be such that review of the data is impractical.

To combat this problem a number of businesses have also implemented analytics technologies to analyze the speech recognized communications. One such technology that has emerged includes large vocabulary continuous speech recognition LVCSR . LVCSR technologies often convert received audio from the communications into an English translation of the communication in a textual document. From the textual document analytics may be provided to determine various data related to the communication. Additionally phonetic speech recognition may be utilized for capturing the communication data.

While these and technologies may provide a mechanism for capturing communication data oftentimes the shear amount of data for processing may consume extensive hardware resources. As such a solution to increase speed and or reduce resource consumption is desired.

Included are embodiments for multi pass analytics. At least one embodiment of a method includes receiving audio data associated with a communication performing first tier speech to text analytics on the received audio data and performing second tier speech to text analytics on the received audio.

Also included are embodiments of a system for multi pass analytics. At least one embodiment of a system includes a receiving component configured to receive audio data associated with a communication and a first tier speech to text analytics component configured to perform first tier speech to text analytics on the received audio data. Some embodiments include a second tier speech to text analytics component configured to in response to determining perform second tier speech to text analytics on the received audio.

Also included are embodiments of a computer readable medium for multi pass analytics. At least one embodiment includes receiving logic configured to receive audio data associated with a communication and first tier speech to text analytics logic configured to perform first tier speech to text analytics on the received audio data. Some embodiments include second tier speech to text analytics logic configured to in response to determining perform second tier speech to text analytics on the received audio.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Included are embodiments for increasing the speed of speech to text conversion and related analytics. More specifically in at least one embodiment first tier speech to text analytics and second tier speech to text analytics are used. In other embodiments a first tier may be configured for speech to text conversion and a second tier may be configured for speech to text analytics. Other embodiments are also included as discussed with reference to the drawings.

While in some configurations an audio recording can be provided to an analyst to determine the quality of customer service some embodiments may include a text to voice conversion of the communication. Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition LVCSR may be utilized to create an English translated textual document associated with the communication. While an LVCSR speech recognized textual document may provide enhanced searching capabilities related to the communication depending on an accuracy threshold LVCSR technologies may be slow in execution. Similarly in many phonetic technologies for speech recognition processing of search functions associated with the communication may be slow.

Additionally while a user can send a communication request via communication device some embodiments may provide that a user utilizing computing device may initiate a communication to call center via network . In such configurations a user may utilize a soft phone and or other communications logic provided for initiating and facilitating a communication.

One souls also note that a call center can include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Call center may also include an analytic scorecard a quality management QM evaluations component and enterprise reporting component and a speech and replay component . An agent can utilize one or more of the components of call center to facilitate a communication with a caller on communications device . Similarly an analyst can utilize one or more components of call center to analyze the quality of the communications between the agent and the caller associated with communications device . A supervisor may also have access to components of call center to oversee the agent and or the analyst and their interactions with a caller on communications device .

Additionally a recognition engine cluster may be coupled to call center directly and or via network . Recognition engine cluster may include one or more servers that may provide speech recognition functionality to call center . In operation a communication between a caller on communications device and an agent via network may first be received by a recorder subsystem component . Recorder subsystem component may record the communications in an audio format. The recorder audio may then be sent to an extraction filtering component which may be configured to extract the dialogue e.g. remove noise and other unwanted sounds from the recording. The recorded communication can then be sent to a speech processing framework component for converting the recorded audio communication into a textual format. Conversion of the audio into a textual format may be facilitated by a recognition engine cluster however this is not a requirement. Regardless conversion from the audio format to a textual format may be facilitated via LVCSR speech recognition technologies and or phonetic speech recognition technologies as discussed in more detail below.

Upon conversion from audio to a textual format data related to the communication may be provided to advanced data analytics pattern recognition component . Advanced data analytics component may be configured to provide analysis associated with the speech to text converted communication to determine the quality of customer service provided to the caller of communications device . Advanced data analytics component may utilize atlas component for facilitation of this analysis. More specifically atlas component may include a speech package component that may be configured to analyze various patterns in the speech of the caller of communications device . Similarly desktop event component may be configured to analyze one or more actions that the user of communications device takes on their communications device . More specifically a network may facilitate communications in an IP network. As such communications device may facilitate both audio and or data communications that may include audio video images and or other data. Additionally advanced data analytics component may utilize an actions package to determine various components of the interaction between agent and the caller of communications device . Advanced data analytics component may then make a determination based on predetermined criteria of the quality of call service provided by agent .

Advanced data analytics component may then facilitate creation of an analytic scorecard and provide enterprise reporting . Additionally call center may provide quality management evaluations as well as speech and replay communications . This data may be viewed by an agent an analyst and or a supervisor . Additionally as discussed in more detail below an analyst may further analyze the data to provide a basis for advanced data analytics component to determine the quality of customer service.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computing device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM VRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CD ROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can also have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in volatile and nonvolatile memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may include speech to text logic analytics logic as well as an operating system and a recording cache . Additionally while logic components and are each illustrated in this nonlimiting example as a single piece of logic as one of ordinary skill in the art will understand these components can include one or more separate software hardware or firmware modules. Similarly one or more of these logical components can be combined to provide the desired functionality. Additionally the operating system may be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and may be configured to provide scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the Operating System .

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone camera proximity device etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. Similarly network interface which is coupled to local interface can be configured to communication with a communications network such as the network from . While this communication may be facilitated via a communications device such as communications device this is not a requirement.

If the computing device is a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the Operating System and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the computing device is activated.

When the computing device is in operation the processor can be configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the computing device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed. Additionally one should note that while the above description is directed to a advanced data analytics component other devices such as communications device computing device call center and or other components can also include the components and or functionality described in .

One should also note that advanced data analytics component can be configured with one or more of the components and or logic described above with respect to analytics component . Additionally analytics component communications device computing device and or other components of call center can include voice recognition logic voice to text logic text to voice logic etc. or any permutation thereof as well as other components and or logic for facilitating the functionality described herein. Additionally in some exemplary embodiments one or more of these components can include the functionality described with respect to analytics component .

More specifically ingest audio component can be configured to facilitate the creation of a phonetic transcript with one or more phonemes that occur in the communication. One embodiment of a representation of the one or more phonemes can include the designation of International Phonetic Alphabet IPA which may be utilized for computer use using the ISO10646 standard UNICODE . Ingest audio component can then create the phonetic transcript .

The phonetic transcript can then be sent to a search system which is part of a search component . The search system can also receive vocabulary and rules as designated by an analyst such as analyst from . Vocabulary and rules component can designate one or more search trends and or algorithms to perform in analyzing the phonetic transcript . Additionally search terms may be provided by analyst to provide data associated with the quality of customer service provided to a caller.

As a nonlimiting example referring to a user of communications device may initiate communication with call center . The user of communications device and an agent may engage in a communication that includes the phrase brown fox. In this communication the agent may be required to save the term brown fox. As such the communication can be recorded and the audio recording can be sent to the base phonetic engine. The phonetic engine can apply language models to ingest the audio recording at ingest audio component . The phonetic engine can thereby create a phonetic transcript .

The phonetic transcript can then be sent to a search component which includes a search system . The search system can utilize vocabulary and rules component as well as receive the search terms . As indicated above the search term brown fox can be a desired term to be found in a communication. The search system can then search the phonetic transcript for the term brown fox. As the phonetic transcript may not include an English translation of the audio recording vocabulary and rules component may be configured to provide a correlation between the search term which may be provided in English and the phonetic representation of the desired search terms.

If the term brown fox appears in the phonetic transcript a signal and or scorecard can be provided to an analyst to determine the quality of customer service provided by agent . Additionally some embodiments can be configured to provide information to analyst in the event that the term brown fox does not appear in the communication. Similarly other search terms and or search criteria may be utilized to provide data to analyst . Further description of phonetic speech to text conversion and analytics is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 540 281 entitled Speech Analysis Using Statistical Learning which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

One should note that the nonlimiting example of may be included as part of call center . More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment one or more of the components of may be included with speech processing framework advanced data analytics component and or other components. Similarly depending on the particular configuration at least a portion of this logic may be provided with communications device and or computing device .

In at least one embodiment the system of may be configured such that first tier recognition server is configured to provide speech to text conversion for received audio data. First tier recognition server may be configured to convert speech to text via a phonetic engine such as the phonetic engine described in and or via LVCSR such as described in . In such a configuration second tier recognition server may be configured to provide one or more speech to text analytics for the converted audio data. This may facilitate faster operation of the network in that first tier server may be configured to in at least one embodiment process data faster than second tier server . This may be accomplished via a faster computer architecture utilization of faster speech to text recognition logic and or for other reasons. Similarly some embodiments may be configured such that first tier server is configured to determine the data to be sent to second tier server . As a subset of data received at first tier server is sent to second tier server the overall network performance may improve.

Similarly some embodiments may be configured such that first tier recognition server is configured to provide a precursory speech to text conversion and or analytics. Upon recognition of a desired search term associated with the communication first tier recognition server can provide at least a portion of the communication data to second tier recognition server . Second tier recognition server may be configured to provide a more thorough analysis and or conversion of the data. As first tier server may be configured to process at least a portion of the received data and send at least a portion of that data to second tier server network performance may improve.

While first tier recognition server is illustrated as being directly coupled to second tier recognition server this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment first tier recognition server is coupled to network and second tier recognition server is also coupled to network . First tier recognition server may be separately located from second tier recognition server and may facilitate communications with second tier recognition server via network . Additionally while first tier recognition server and second tier recognition server are illustrated as separate components this is also a nonlimiting example. In at least one embodiment the functionality described with respect to first tier recognition server and second tier recognition server may be provided in a single component for providing the desired functionality.

First tier recognition server may be configured to provide one or more speech recognition and or analytics services. As a nonlimiting example first tier recognition server may be configured to determine speaker identification associated with the communication. Similarly first tier server may be configured to provide speaker verification associated with the communication. First tier server may be configured to determine speaker emotion. Similarly second tier speech recognition service may be configured to exclusively serve first tier recognition server however this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically second tier speech recognition server may be configured as a speaker identification determination server to receive data from first recognition server . In operation audio data may be sent to first tier speech recognition server which may be a phonetic speech recognition server. First tier speech recognition server may be configured to determine at least one characteristic associated with the audio data to determine whether speaker identification may be determined. If a determination is made that speaker identification can be determined first tier speech recognition service may send at least a portion of the received audio data which may be converted into a phonetic transcript and or other form to a second tier recognition server . Second tier speech recognition server may be configured to fully analyze the received data to determine the identification of the speaker.

While the nonlimiting example discussed above indicates that the second tier speech recognition server is a dedicated server for first tier speech recognition server this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one nonlimiting example second tier recognition servers may serve one or more of the first tier speech recognition servers . Similarly some embodiments can be configured such that first tier recognition server may be configured to provide the initial speech recognition functionality while second tier speech recognition server may be configured to provide more specific services. In this nonlimiting example first tier speech recognition servers may be configured to provide a speech to text conversion associated with received audio data. Upon conversion first tier speech recognition servers and can make a determination as to the desired analytics for the associated communication. Upon determining the desired analytics first tier speech recognition server can send the phonetic data to a second tier speech recognition server associated with the desired analytic.

More specifically if second tier speech recognition server is a speaker identification server one or more of the first tier recognition servers can send data to second tier speech recognition server upon determination that a speaker identification is required. Similarly if second tier speech recognition server is configured for speaker verification speech recognition servers may be configured to send communication data to second tier speech recognition server . Other configurations are also included.

Also included in the nonlimiting example of is a second tier speech recognition server . Second tier speech recognition server may be configured to provide speech recognition services at higher accuracy than first tier speech recognition server . Similarly also includes a third tier recognition server which may be configured to further speech recognition analytics associated with the communication.

In operation first tier speech recognition server may be configured to receive raw data associated with a communication. First tier speech recognition server may then perform expedited speech recognition services on the received data. Second tier speech recognition server may include more thorough speech recognition functionality which may be slower in operation than first tier speech recognition server however second tier server may provide greater accuracy related to received data. Additionally second tier speech recognition server may make a determination whether a third tier speech recognition server may be utilized.

Third tier speech recognition server may be configured to provide services different than that of second tier speech recognition server . As a nonlimiting example second tier speech recognition server may be configured to determined speaker confidence associated with received audio data while a third tier speech recognition server may be configured to determine speaker emotion associated with the received audio. As such if information regarding both speaker emotion and speaker confidence is desired the second tier speech recognition server and third tier speech recognition server as well as first tier speech recognition server may be utilized.

Call center may then convert the received audio into a textual transcript e.g. a phonetic transcript and or a spoken language transcript and or other type of transcript as illustrated in block . Call center may then determine whether the audio potentially include the recognition criteria block . If the received audio data does not include the recognition criteria the process may end. If however first tier speech recognition server determines that the audio potentially include the recognition criteria first tier speech recognition server can send at least a portion of the audio which may be converted to a phonetic and or other transcript to second tier speech recognition server block . The flowchart then proceeds to jump block which is continued in .

As discussed above second tier speech recognition server may provide a more detailed speech recognition analysis of the audio data received. Similarly some embodiments may be configured to provide a specific speech recognition analysis task such as speaker identification speaker verification speaker emotion speaker confidence and or other types of analysis.

As illustrated in this nonlimiting example upon determination that the received audio contains one or more attributes associated with the determined speech criteria according to the determined recognition criteria first tier speech recognition server can send at least a portion of the data to the second tier speech recognition server. As such full analysis of the received audio may be expedited.

It should be noted that speech analytics i.e. the analysis of recorded speech or real time speech can be used to perform a variety of functions such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This can improve collection effectiveness and reduce corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should also be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionalities improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities. Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they will have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. At least one embodiment disclosed herein is implemented in software and or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment disclosed herein can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies a discrete logic circuit having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

One should also note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

