---

title: NMR characterization of thin films
abstract: A method, apparatus, and system for characterizing thin film materials. The method, apparatus, and system includes a container for receiving a starting material, applying a gravitational force, a magnetic force, and an electric force or combinations thereof to at least the starting material, forming a thin film material, sensing an NMR signal from the thin film material and analyzing the NMR signal to characterize the thin film of material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07456630&OS=07456630&RS=07456630
owner: U Chicago Argonne LLC
number: 07456630
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060711
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Application 60 719 479 filed Sep. 22 2005 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has certain rights in the invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy and the University of Chicago operating Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention is related generally to use of nuclear magnetic resonance NMR to characterize thin films. In particular thin films prepared by use of molecule subcomponents result in tailored films which can benefit from careful control of the assembly process by use of NMR spectroscopy and imaging.

The tailored assembly of molecules by use of new methods such as application of gravitational magnetic and electric field forces can result in whole new classes of thin films with a variety of important uses. Thus it is important to be able to characterize the starting components intermediate and final components as well as location of molecular assemblages on the substrate but virtually no methods allow adequate characterization of such assemblages especially throughout the complex process of fabrication. Moreover there is a substantial need comparison of theoretical model assemblies with actual experimental data so as to control and characterize thin film structures generally.

NMR spectroscopy and imaging is used to carry out detailed chemical and macroscopic structural characterization of thin films. In one system a cylindrical device allows receiving a starting layer of molecules which can be characterized and compared with theoretical NMR spectra. Throughout the process of assembling molecules in a layer the NMR method can be used to carry out such comparisons with theory as well as perform fundamental chemical characterization film thickness measurements and evaluate other macroscopic features such as characterizing the layering of different chemical components and obtaining dynamical information about the chemical and molecular constituents. Consequently NMR can perform characterization of the materials and also enable control of the preparation of a desired film product.

Various aspects features and advantages of the invention as described hereinafter and these and other improvements will be described in more detail below including the drawings as described below.

A method of thin film characterization involving NMR spectroscopy can be used to perform measurements heretofore unavailable. In preparation of thin films such as the development of the tailoring of molecular assemblages it has become necessary to control aspects of preparation. Such features include tailoring as well as characterization of starting intermediate and finished product chemical features including macroscopic aspects such as film thickness orientation and the location of particular film components in space.

Using the example device shown in the method of characterization of the products of the method and apparatus can be illustrated. The device is of course only one example of use for film preparation and the method and system described herein is applicable to any film for which characterization is sought. In the device of a gravitational field force G magnetic field force B and electric field force E are shown. Note that the E field force can be parallel or perpendicular or combinations thereof to a rotor axis denoted central axis conductor within the spinning cylinder as in and . A radial electric field E is generated by power source . The G field force can perform separations as well by molecule mass such as for films with slightly different density. We can therefore for example fabricate a film with holes and then put molecules through the holes in the film because of the separability of different densities and or of different sizes of molecules which can be inserted there through.

As shown in the environmental chemical shift of the NMR resonance depends on the permeability of the thin film the material that surrounds the film and on the macroscopic geometry of the film with the NMR peak shape obtained using NMR device containing information about how the induced magnetic field changes with angle angle permeabilities and nuclear shielding parameters 

As further noted in the NMR peak shape can include information about the local magnetic environment with one environment separating to one side of the spectrum versus the other environments. In addition the peak separation between the two NMR peaks of provides information about the thickness of the cylindrical shell of the film see . In addition the separation provides information about the angle between Band the principal rotor axis of the cylinder of the device see .

Further the device of can be used to obtain films from compounds that are soft and waxy at room temperature. The existing device enables stable spinning at frequencies between 1 and 4 kHz during which compounds inside the spinning cylinder are pushed by the gravitational force onto the walls of the cylinder . The centrifugal force reshapes compounds into thin cylindrical shells i.e. thin classic film product see film in . When the device is placed inside the NMR apparatus the features of the thin classic film product can easily be analyzed while it is spinning at high and low speeds and upon shutting the spinning off. High resolution NMR spectra of the end product film formed within the device under conditions of magic angle spinning MAS do not provide orientational information of the component molecules but these spectra are useful for compound identification obtaining proper spin counts and establishing whether there are impurities in the film product . As the spinning of the cylinder is turned off the static spectra that provide molecular orientation information can be obtained. Slow spinning of the cylinder is also useful for characterizing the thickness shape and orientation of the end film product .

In the context of a molecule nanoweaver methodology the term classic film refers to a film in which molecules do not have preferential orientations the component molecules that make up a film assume all possible orientations since they tumble isotropically at elevated temperatures before they are locked in random positions upon cooling. The lineshape in the static NMR spectrum of a classic film is due to the shape of the sample. Thus by knowing only the geometrical shape of the sample container e.g. the cylinder a theoretical model can be used to predict the lineshape. In a theoretical model see Eqn. 1 the lineshape due to the shape of the sample is scaled by the term that is related to the thickness of the end film product . In order to compare the theoretical lineshape to the experimental results the lineshape is also scaled by the magnetic susceptibility of the compound used in the experiment see and Eqn. 1 .

The theoretical model predicts that the static film product obtained inside the cylinder has a characteristic lineshape that is a doublet whose center is at the isotropic value of the chemical shift for the specific compound. Theoretical lineshapes for nonadecane films shown in have been scaled by the film thickness parameter and molecular parameters that relate to the magnetic susceptibility of nonadecane. To see if the theoretical lineshapes based on the geometric factor agree with experimental results several nonadecane films of different thicknesses were prepared and studied. Theoretically predicted and experimentally obtained lineshapes for nonadecane films are shown in respectively. The substantial agreement between theory and experiment is clear and this indicates that created end film products are classic films. Yet in the experimental and theoretical lineshapes for nonadecane films differ slightly in magnitudes of the splittings. The splitting is a distance in ppm between two peaks that make up a doublet. In calculations values of film thickness are calculated from mass and density of the nonadecane placed inside the spinner and the magnetic susceptibility parameter is experimentally determined. Since these scaling values have errors associated with them the theoretical splittings are affected by these errors.

Equations used in obtaining the theoretical lineshapes for nonadecane films of are based on geometric shapes of thin films see . Yet these equations can be modified to include molecular effects. Molecular information is contained in the components of the molecular shielding tensor. The shielding tensor components contribute to the peak lineshape in the situation when molecules have preferential orientations which occur when molecules are ordered on the nanometer scale. We expect that as the process of building the molecule nanoweaver device is completed and experiments are performed with the purpose of obtaining films with molecules ordered on the nanometer scale then theoretical calculations will become crucial in the analysis of the experimentally obtained lineshapes. Such analysis can be performed using computer systems see with computer software modules to perform the appropriate mathematical analysis.

In addition to high resolution spectra and static NMR spectra unique information about prepared isotropic classic film product can be deposited and processed by use of the toroid cavity detector TCD NMR spectrometer see . The device includes an outer housing a monomer source a bearing gas for supporting the spinning cylinder and a drive gas for pushing against drive fins of the cylinder . Also included is heating cooling gas a vent and a direct viewing device in the form of fiber optic cable to view film formation and irradiate film with UV VIS IR light.

The spinning cylinder of the device is with the film product cast on its inside walls inside the toroid cavity housing disposed so that the central axis conductor of the cylinder coincides with central conduit that is connected to the TCD NMR spectrometer . Ceramic capacitor variable capacitor central axis conductor and the housing comprise a radiofrequency tunable resonant circuit useful for recording TCD NMR images. Resulting TCD NMR images are three dimensional with chemical shift radial and intensity dimensions see for example described below . Thus the TCD NMR spectrometer gives normal NMR spectra of compounds observed along the chemical shift axis. In addition the radial information in the second dimension indicates how far away from the central axis conductor the compound identified from the information along the chemical shift is located. The TCD NMR spectrometer can thus be used to study multilayered classic films.

In is shown the characterization of a two layer film composed of nonadecane 31.9 mg and polyethylene glycol PEG 39.9 mg which are introduced into the device by the monomer source or by alternate means. The resulting multilayer film can be characterized by measurement of the NMR spectrum and comparing with the NMR spectrum of each constituent of the film . shows the recorded H NMR spectrum of a two layer film composed of an equal mole mixture of nonadecane 31.9 mg and PEG 39.9 mg . shows the recorded H NMR spectrum of a film of nonadecane 31.9 mg . shows the H NMR spectrum of a film of PEG 39.9 mg . Various combined spectra are shown. The spectrum in is the scaled sum composed of a 1 1 ratio also denoted 50 50 of the nonadecane spectrum of and the PEG spectrum of . The spectrum in is the scaled sum composed of a 1 2.33 ratio also denoted 30 70 of the nonadecane spectrum of and the PEG spectrum of . If the measured H NMR spectrum is not simply the sum of the two individual spectra then some molecular change or component loss has occurred. In experimental and simulation data for PEG distearate illustrate further the deviation from identity and the substantial difference of the H NMR spectrum when the cylinder of the device is spinning see versus static see the experimental static spectrum is compared to simulation results in . The simulated static H NMR spectrum shown in was composed of a ratio determined by the number of methylene protons in the alkane and polyethylene oxide PEO chains in the PEG distearate molecule of the nonadecane spectrum of and the PEG spectrum of . The simulated static spectrum shown in was composed of a ratio determined by the number of methylene protons in the alkane and PEO chains in the PEG distearate molecule of two spectra of the form shown in displaced from each other by the chemical shift difference between the methylene protons in the alkane and PEO chains calculated using Equation 1 .

One of the prepared films studied by TCD NMR spectrometer contained polyethylene glycol PEG and polydimethyl siloxane PDS . The TCD H NMR image in shows that PDS and PEG are macroscopically separated since the peaks identifying each compound occur at different radial positions. In the prepared film the outer layer is PEG and the inner one is PDS. This separation of PEG from PDS was done by application of a centrifugal field force and was due to the immiscibility and difference in density of the two compounds.

In another illustration of the invention three compounds PEG PDS and nonadecane were used to prepare the classic film . The TCD H NMR images of this system in indicate that the resulting film is composed of two layers and further shows that the outside layer is PEG. also show that the inside layer is a mixture of PDS and nonadecane. Thus the TCD H NMR results show that PDS and nonadecane are miscible with each other but not with PEG. Units on the radial axis of can be mathematically transformed in a known manner into real units of distance.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications referred to in the embodiment described herein would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

