---

title: Methods for data classification
abstract: The present invention provides methods for classifying data and uncovering and correcting annotation errors. In particular, the present invention provides a self-organizing, self-correcting algorithm for use in classifying data. Additionally, the present invention provides a method for classifying biological taxa.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08036997&OS=08036997&RS=08036997
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08036997
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060616
---
The present invention claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 690 969 filed Jun. 16 2005 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was funded in part under the Biological and Environmental Research Program BER United States Department of Energy Grant No. DE FG02 02ER63315. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention provides methods for classifying data and uncovering and correcting annotation errors. In particular the present invention provides self organizing self correcting methods systems and algorithms for use in classifying data. Additionally the present invention provides a method for classifying biological taxa.

Principal component analysis PCA is a classical statistical method. This linear transform is widely used in data analysis and compression. PCA involves a mathematical procedure that transforms a number of possibly correlated variables into a smaller number of uncorrelated variables called principal components. The first principal component accounts for as much of the variability in the data as possible and each succeeding component accounts for as much of the remaining variability as possible. The objective of PCA is to discover or to reduce the dimensionality of a data set and to identify new meaningful underlying variables.

PCA has been used to analyze complex data including phylogenetic data used to classify organisms. The principal method of establishing phylogenetic relationships among prokaryotic organisms is through analysis of SSU rRNA. Currently over 125 000 organism specific SSU rRNA sequences are publicly available. Exploratory data analysis methods such as principal components analysis techniques indicate higher order relationships among SSU rRNA sequences similar to the July 2002 Bergey s taxonomy. However principal components analysis techniques fail to provide undistorted visual presentation of the orderings and fail to provide automated identification and re placement of classification errors.

The simple act of naming and classifying an entity e.g. biological entity that is part of a large complex classification system has potentially far reaching and long lived consequences. Names especially those ascribed to organisms serve as a primary entry point into the scientific medical and technical literature and figure prominently in countless laws and regulations governing various aspects of commerce public safety and public health. Biological names also serve as a primary entry point into many of the central databases that the scientific community and the general public rely upon. However ascribed names do not govern the process of biological classification or identification rather only the formation and assignment of names to proposed taxa. Hence legitimate and valid names may be ascribed to poorly formed taxa and illegitimate and invalid names may be assigned to well formed taxa.

A disjunction between nomenclature and taxonomy leads to an accumulation of dubious names in the literature and databases. From a practical legal or regulatory sense incorrect classification can have significant and unintended consequences. For example these errors may lead to adding or removing biological species to lists of tightly regulated organisms such as the current list of biothreat agents in the United States or organisms restricted by packaging and shipping regulations.

What is needed is an improved visual presentation of data classifications generated from principal components analysis based orderings and a method of providing automated identification and re placement of classification errors. Additionally there is a need for a system of nomenclature and classification of biological taxa and other similar data sets that takes advantage of the large numbers of SSU rRNA sequences or corresponding identifiers available that is reconcilable with other knowledge concerning genotypic and phenotypic information.

The present invention provides methods for classifying data. In particular the present invention provides a self organizing self correcting algorithm for use in classifying data. Additionally the present invention provides a method for classifying biological taxa.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of classifying data by providing a data set wherein the data set comprises unique data points a self organizing self correcting algorithm and software wherein the software is configured to run the self organizing self correcting algorithm inputting the data set into the algorithm generating a classification of the data set wherein the generating a classification of the data set comprises removing data points not meeting a predetermined similarity criteria generating a first classification wherein the first classification comprises a first classification plurality of groupings wherein the first classification plurality of groupings comprise data points meeting the pre determined similarity criteria that are related fitting the data points not meeting a pre determined similarity criteria into the first classification and generating a second classification wherein the second classification comprises a second classification plurality of groupings wherein the second classification plurality of groupings comprise related data points meeting a pre determined similarity criteria and data points not meeting a pre determined similarity criteria. In some embodiments the predetermined similarity criteria comprises a 90percentile goodness of fit value. In some embodiments the method further comprises the step of subjecting groups of data to a medioid algorithm.

In some embodiments the method of classifying data further comprises visualizing the classification of the data. For example in one embodiment the present invention provides visualizing the classification of the data set through display of a heat map.

The present invention is not limited by the nature of the data used in the systems and methods. In some embodiments the data comprises biological data e.g. information pertaining to an organism identity patient information sociological characteristics of an organism etc. . In some embodiments the data comprises non biological scientific data e.g. data corresponding to properties of materials chemicals drugs celestial bodies biometric measurements etc. . In some embodiments the data comprises financial data e.g. characteristics of a company traded security etc. .

In a preferred embodiment the data set classified by the systems and methods of the present invention comprises prokaryotic SSU rRNA sequences. In still further preferred embodiments each of the prokaryotic SSU rRNA sequences are specific for a prokaryotic organism. In other embodiments the data set classified by the systems and methods of the present invention comprises prokaryotic nucleic acid or peptide sequences eukaryotic nucleic acid or peptide sequences viral nucleic acid or peptide sequences nucleic acid or peptide sequences generated from cell lines or nucleic acid sequences encoding enzymes catalytic nucleic acid molecules small nucleic acid molecule inhibitors etc.

In some embodiments the method of classifying data further comprises identifying the classification of an unknown data point wherein identifying the classification of an unknown data point comprises inputting the unknown data point into the algorithm and fitting the unknown data point into the second classification. In some embodiments the unknown data point is an unknown SSU rRNA sequence.

To facilitate an understanding of the present invention a number of terms and phrases are defined below 

As used herein the terms processor and central processing unit or CPU are used interchangeably and refer to a device that is able to read a program from a computer memory e.g. ROM or other computer memory and perform a set of steps according to the program.

As used herein the terms computer memory and computer memory device refer to any storage media readable by a computer processor. Examples of computer memory include but are not limited to RAM ROM computer chips digital video discs DVD compact discs CDs hard disk drives HDD and magnetic tape.

As used herein the term computer readable medium refers to any device or system for storing and providing information e.g. data and instructions to a computer processor. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to DVDs CDs hard disk drives magnetic tape and servers for streaming media over networks.

As used herein the term encode refers to the process of converting one type of information or signal into a different type of information or signal to for example facilitate the transmission and or interpretability of the information or signal. For example image files can be converted into i.e. encoded into electrical or digital information. Likewise light patterns can be converted into electrical or digital information that provides an encoded video capture of the light patterns.

As used herein the term in electronic communication refers to electrical devices e.g. computers processors etc. that are configured to communicate with one another through direct or indirect signaling. For example a conference bridge that is connected to a processor through a cable or wire such that information can pass between the conference bridge and the processor are in electronic communication with one another. Likewise a computer configured to transmit e.g. through cables wires infrared signals wireless signals telephone lines etc information to another computer or device is in electronic communication with the other computer or device.

As used herein the term transmitting refers to the movement of information e.g. data from one location to another e.g. from one device to another using any suitable means.

The present invention provides methods for classifying data. In particular the present invention provides a self organizing self correcting algorithm for use in classifying data. Additionally the present invention provides a method for classifying biological taxa.

The following description illustrates the invention using biological examples. It should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the classification organization and correction of biological data.

Principal component analysis PCA is widely used in data analysis compression and classification. The objective of PCA is to discover or to reduce the dimensionality of a data set and to identify new meaningful underlying variables. One shortcoming of algorithms written for PCA is that they force fit data into classifications potentially skewing proper grouping of data and making interpretation of the data difficult. Additionally there currently exists poor visual presentation of data classifications generated from principal components analysis based orderings and a method of providing automated identification and relocation of classification errors has not been forthcoming.

The present invention cures these defects. In particular in some embodiments the present invention provides a self organizing self correcting classification algorithm created and used to dynamically record data organizations e.g. heat maps to automatically generate classifications review and modify the classifications identify possible classification errors facilitate ad hoc testing of alternative classifications hypothesis and correctly classify new entries e.g. See Example 1 . In some embodiments although hierarchical clustering techniques are employed the algorithm circumvents the force fitting of data into a hierarchy. Rather in some embodiments the algorithm provides a means of identifying and selectively excluding data points that fail to meet minimal criteria for group membership thereby permitting good clusters to form. The excluded data sets can then be added back to the global model to allow for a more precise placement if possible. In addition since hierarchical clustering techniques are used on a localized level the effect of evolutionary rate variability across disparate entities e.g. widely divergent taxa is minimized leading to classifications that are consistent with established phylogenetic models.

The present invention is not limited by the type of data applied to e.g. examined or interrogated by the algorithm of the present invention. Indeed a variety of data sets can be analyzed. In some embodiments the data set comprises prokaryotic SSU rRNA sequences. In further embodiments each SSU rRNA sequence is specific for a prokaryotic organism. For example the method of classifying data can be used to create from an extant class of bacteria an ordered and revised hierarchical taxonomy e.g. in a short amount of time e.g. in approximately twenty minutes e.g. See Examples 2 4 9 . In still further embodiments the algorithm is used to classify other data sets including but not limited to prokaryotic nucleic acid or peptide sequences eukaryotic nucleic acid or peptide sequences viral nucleic acid or peptide sequences nucleic acid or peptide sequences generated from cell lines or nucleic acid sequences encoding enzymes catalytic nucleic acid molecules small nucleic acid molecule inhibitors and other data sets. For example it is contemplated that the method of classification of the present invention can be used to identify and classify genes involved in oncogenesis tumorogenesis metastasis drug response cell death angiogenesis etc.

Although the previous examples are focused on the problem of biological classification the algorithm is not limited to use solely in taxonomy and biological classification. Indeed the algorithm of Example 1 is applicable to any classification for which a metric exists or can be derived. For example the algorithm of the present invention with its automated identification and re placement of classification errors is contemplated to be useful in the dynamic recording of heat maps to automatically generate review and modify the classification of securities certificates secured transactions sales receipts or other types of recorded data.

In some embodiments the method of classifying data of the present invention is used to identify the classification of an unknown data point through inputting the unknown data point into the algorithm. In some embodiments the unknown data point is an unknown SSU rRNA sequence e.g. See Examples 6 8 . Additionally it is contemplated that any unknown data point for which a metric exists or for which a metric can be derived can be classified using the algorithm of the present invention.

The following examples are provided in order to demonstrate and further illustrate certain preferred embodiments and aspects of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

Algorithm. The algorithm is implemented in the S programming language See e.g. Becker et al. The new S language a programming environment for data analysis and graphics Wadsworth Brooks Cole Advanced Books Software Pacific Grove Calif. 1988 and relies on functions that are part of the S Plus environment Version 6.1 Insightful Seattle Wash. . The code developed is available as an S Plus script and can be implemented with some modifications in R See e.g. Venables and Smith An Introduction to R Network Theory Ltd. Bristol UK 2002 .

Data. Data analyzed during development of the present invention consisted of 1433 sequences that were initially classified as belonging to the Gammaproteobacteria . The sequences were aligned and an evolutionary distance matrix was prepared as described in Garrity and Lilburn See e.g. Garrity and Lilburn WFCC Newsletter 35 5 15 2002 except that a fully reflected distance matrix was used rather than the rectangular benchmarked matrix. Sequences were obtained from the RDP II database See e.g. Cole et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 31 442 2003 and from Genbank. The Taxonomic Outline of the Procaryotes is available in pdf format at dx.doi.org 10.1007 bergeysoutline.

Given a matrix of distances among the items to be classified and an initial hierarchical classification the algorithm first restructures the matrix so that the ordering of items in the matrix matches the ordering of items in the classification. Thus members of a given group appear in the same region of the matrix and in close proximity to other items presumed to be members of the next higher group within the hierarchy. Next the distance from each item to its second nearest neighbor is extracted from the matrix and the 90percentile of this value is estimated. The 90percentile value serves as a goodness of fit gof measure and was chosen to provide a reasonable stringency without being overly restrictive. In some embodiments this value may be higher or lower e.g. the 80percentile the 70percentile the 60percentile or lower or the 91percentile the 92percentile the 93percentile the 94percentile the 95percentile or higher . Using the 90percentile gof value a binary transformation of each submatrix representing the distances among the members of a group is then created and rearranged by hierarchical clustering along both dimensions of the matrix. These submatrices are then used to guide the global rearrangement of the complete input matrix which may then be visualized e.g. in some embodiments visualized as a colorized distance matrix or as it is also know a heatmap .

In some embodiments of the present invention in a further iteration items that fail to meet the gof test indicative of items that were misclassified in the original classification are excluded from the analysis and the rearrangement of items is further refined using the above heuristic. On completion the misidentified items can be added back to the cleaned matrix and placed adjacent to their nearest neighbors based on distance rather then the presumed identity from the original classification. The classification table is then revised based on the matches and the sorting and visualization routine is repeated using the revised classification. The process is then repeated to test for any items that fail to meet the gof criterion in their new location. Those items that fail to meet the gof criteria are then excluded from further analysis as they are likely members of more distantly related groups that lie outside the natural boundaries of the group being studied.

To establish an optimal ordering for the grouped items at higher levels a summary statistic the medioid was used for the distance from each group to the other groups. This statistic represents a distance from the hypothetical center of each group to the hypothetical centers of all the other groups. First the column means from each group level submatrix was estimated effectively reducing the initial matrix from a square matrix to a rectangular matrix with the medioids on one axis and the items on the other. The matrix was then transposed and column means computer in a second iteration to yield a reduced matrix in which each group was represented by a single medioid in a vector of distances.

The matrix of medioids was subjected to a round of supervised sorting as was performed at the group level resulting in a rearrangement of the medioid matrix. In this pass a smoothing routine was also introduced which involved an iterative column sort analogous to the process of seriation See e.g. Sneath and Sokal Numerical Taxonomy The Principles and Practice of Numerical Classification. W. H. Freeman San Francisco Calif. 1973 where the dimensions of medioid matrix were successively decreased by a single row and the column on each successive pass. The final ordering of medioids was then used to create a new index using the order of appearance of each group into the full distance matrix.

The distances are encoded as indicated on the scale See . Ordering of the sequences within the heatmap is based on the sequence of taxa in Outline of Prokaryotic Taxa Release 3.0. Solid bars along the axis indicated the range encompassed by individual families within the heatmap. Families are as follows Ectothiorhodospiraceae Xanthomonadaceae Cardiobacteriaceae Thiotrichaceae Piscirickettsiaceae Franciscellaceae Legionellaceae Coxiellaceae Methylococcaceae Oceanospirillaceae Alcanovoraxaceae Halomondaceae Pseudomonadaceae Moraxellaceae Alteromonadaceae Vibrionaceae Aeromonadaceae Succinovibrionaceae Enterobacteriacceae Pasteurellaceae. Highlighted areas See and indicate misplaced taxa.

The heat map is re created after reorganization of the genera and re insertion of unnamed and misidentified sequences See . The ordering of the families is according to the Outline of Prokaryotic Species and are ordered as in . The exclusion of a small number of sequences derived from species not belonging to the Gammaproteobacteria results in a significant decrease in the overall range of evolutionary distances within the matrix. This is reflected in the improved contrast observed between closely related and distantly related species accentuating further classification problems. Inspection of the heat map shows that while clear errors in sequence placement have been corrected ordering of the genera within the higher taxa those within the families and orders of the Gammaproteobacteria remain suboptimal. Specifically there exist three sharp breaks two transecting the Alteromonadaceae and one transecting the Enterobacteriacceae. Similarly the Xanthomonadaceae Piscirickettsiaceae and Franciscellaceae appear misplaced interrupting families that would otherwise be contiguous.

Application of the medioid reordering algorithm resolves the discrepancies observed in . The initial classification in which the 125 genera were grouped into 21 families is subdivided into 35 groups suggesting that some of the families are paraphyletic . While 13 21 families remained unchanged in composition the remaining eight families are subdivided into two Methylococcaceae Ectothiorhodospiraceae Enterobacteriaceae three Chromatiaceae Oceanospirillaceae Piscirickettsiaceae Thiotrichaceae or four Alteromonadaceae subgroups. Also evident is the location changes of the taxonomic groups Enterobacteriaceae Xanthomonadaceae and Moraxellaceae from their locations in the original map as the algorithm orders taxa according to overall levels of similarity defined by 16S sequence analysis.

Alignment. Alignments are based on the RDP II Release 8.0 prokaryotic alignment See e.g. Maidak et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 29 173 2001 . The alignment includes 200 sequences from type strains that are not found in Release 8.0. One thousand one hundred and one positions from the alignment were used they were selected according to i the measured variability at each position and ii information presented in conservation maps that have been published See e.g. Cannone et al. BMC Bioinformatics 3 2 Epub Jan. 17 2002 Erratum in BMC Bioinformatics. Jul. 3 15 2002 and Wuyts et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 30 183 5 2001 .

Sequence data. Relatively long prokaryotic sequences were used in the analyses in order to maximize the information content and to ensure that the sequences contained as many homologous positions as possible. The 9 206 sequences used were more than 1399 bases long and had less than 4 ambiguities. If sequences contained no data in more than 10 consecutive alignment positions they were eliminated from the data set. The data was grouped and 223 benchmark sequences incorporated as discussed previously See e.g. Garrity Lilburn WFCC News1 35 5 15 2002 . In the benchmark set of sequences each sequence represented where possible a type species and type genus on which the families are based See e.g. Garrity et al. . Release 3.0 July 2002 available at http dx.doi.org 10.1007 bergeysoutline . All 25 phyla in Bergey s taxonomic outline are represented.

Estimation of evolutionary distances. Prior to estimation of evolutionary distance subsets of sequences were created ranging from 750 to 900 sequences total. Each subset contained the benchmark sequences as the first 223 sequences. Matrices of evolutionary distances were calculated in PAUP Version 4.08 Swofford 2000 using the Jukes and Cantor model See e.g. Jukes Cantor Evolution of protein molecules. In pp. 21 132. Edited by H. N. Munro. New York Academic Press 1969 . Following computation each matrix was exported as a tab delimited file using a short identifier to tag each sequence.

Data structures. Matrices of evolutionary distances were imported into the statistical package Splus 6.1 Insightful edited and joined in a single data frame and finally linked to a data frame containing taxonomic and physiological information as described previously See e.g. Garrity Lilburn WFCC News1 35 5 15 2002 . By invoking functions that are part of the S Plus it was possible to arrange the sequence order on the axes of the matrix according to the current version of the taxonomy based on the hierarchy of names which were treated as ordered factor variables. Sequences without names were moved to the ends of the lists. The matrix was then color coded to allow data patterns to be seen. This allows identification of any potential misplacements that arise because of incorrect annotation of sequences or because of a failure to identify synonyms.

In the next cycle the misidentified sequences were extracted and arranged in a new matrix according to their similarities to the benchmark sequences. The unnamed benchmark sequences were also reordered.

Similar routines were carried out on two subsets of the data sequences from the class Betaproteobacteria and from the family Comamonadaceae.

An initial beat map representing over two million distances was created using 9206 sequences See . Two hundred and twenty three benchmark sequences selected to represent the breadth of prokaryotic diversity are on the y axis clustered according to their position in the July 2002 Bergey s taxonomy. At y values 190 are sequences that i are from organisms not in culture at the time of publication and ii form deep branches within the RDP II tree. On the x axis are 9 206 sequences from the RDP II and GenBank also clustered by name according to their place in the taxonomy sequences not associated with a named organism are placed at x values 7463. Since the benchmarks and bulk of the sequences are clustered according to the same hierarchy the bright green color indicating the highest level of sequence similarity is seen on the diagonal between positions 0 0 and 7463 190 . Misplaced sequences are seen as areas rectangles of color that contrast with the background color located off the diagonal and above the x coordinate corresponding to the misplaced sequence s . For example a misplaced sequence can be seen at y 200 as a red line extending across most of the plot See . Beyond coordinates 7463 190 the diagonal pattern breaks down. Sequences in this region could not be positioned based on known taxonomic affiliation because no name information was available.

In order to identify and classify the unknown sequences it was necessary to write a routine that in essence moved the unknown sequence along the x axis until the element representing the highest similarity value for that sequence was placed on the diagonal of the heat map rectangle. The results of this type of re ordering with the subset of unnamed sequences is shown See . Note that the benchmark sequences have also been re ordered so that each of the 33 unnamed benchmark sequences is positioned next to the sequence on the x axis to which it is most similar. All of the sequences have now been successfully placed in a known phylum although it is clear from the dark lines that cross the heat map that some of the sequences are from organisms that are only distantly related to the phylum in which they have been placed. In other words the algorithm has forced them into a taxon that they may not actually belong in. There is also a problem with the visualization of the sequence placement. In phyla with low sequence diversity such as the Actinobacteria almost the entire block of sequences is a single shade of green and any problems of classification etc. at sub phylum levels are masked.

Restricting the view of the data to a subset of the data and resetting the color scale readily solved the difficulty of visualizing the sequence placement. When utilizing this solution with the Betaproteobacteria visualization of the taxonomy was possible and corrections were made as necessary down to the family level See . Resolution below the family level relies to some extent on the simple visualization of distances since the benchmarks were selected to represent the prokaryotic families and are therefore ineffectual below the family level.

The family Comamonadaceae is visualized along with sequences that once formed part of this family or that are proposed to form part of the family. Genera within the family can be seen. The sequences have been rearranged according to their order in a neighbor joining consensus tree. See .

Use of medioid reording resolves additional discrepancies. Methods of the present invention conducted without medioid reording produced heat maps where errors in sequence placement were corrected. However ordering of the genera within the higher taxa e.g. within the families and orders of the Gammaproteobacteria remained suboptimal. Particularly noteworthy were three sharp breaks two transect the Alteromonadaceae and on transects the Enterobacteriaceae. Likewise it was apparent that the Xanthomonadaceae Piscirickettsiaceae and Franciscellaceae seemed to be misplaced interrupting families that would otherwise be contiguous. Application of the medioid reodering algorithm resolved most of these discrepancies.

All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference. Various modifications and variations of the described algorithm and methods of using the same of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those skilled in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

