---

title: Process data presentation based on process regions
abstract: Computer-implemented methods, computer program products and data processing systems for presenting dynamic data pertaining to a process. In one aspect, region information identifying a plurality of user-selected regions of the process, switching information identifying criteria for switching among the user-selected regions, and dynamic data pertaining to the process, are used to generate a dynamic visual representation of the process which emphasizes, at any given time, only one of the user-selected regions. The user-selected region emphasized at any given time is automatically determined according to the criteria for switching. In another aspect, region information identifying at least one user-selected region of the process and dynamic data pertaining to the process are used to generate a dynamic visual representation of at least a portion of the process containing the at least one user-selected region. The visual representation emphasizes each user-selected region within the context of the portion of the process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08947439&OS=08947439&RS=08947439
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08947439
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060915
---
The present invention relates to the presentation of process related data and more particularly to systems methods and computer program products for presenting process related data to facilitate user comprehension and analysis of such data.

There are many different types of processes for which it is advantageous to present data pertaining to the process and to the subprocesses that make up that process.

For example in process control applications such as power generation facilities information about the current state of the various subprocesses is critical to enabling facility operators to identify and correct potential problems. Failure to timely identify such problems can have a catastrophic effect and appropriate data presentation methodologies are therefore important.

Another example of a type of process for which data pertaining to the process should be presented is a business process. As used herein the term business process is intended to have a broad meaning and would include product manufacturing processes transportation processes client intake processes customer file handling processes customer service processes and virtually any other process undertaken by a business or government or non profit enterprise. Frequently computer models of such processes are constructed so as to enable modeling and simulation of these business processes to identify bottlenecks and other possible areas for improvement. These computer models can not only present summary data about the outcome of a process but can also show the ongoing status of a simulation. For example the computer model may execute significantly faster than the process being modeled e.g. one hour of simulated process time may take only one second of real world time to execute to enable problems to be anticipated. By using process simulation to anticipate problems modifications to the process can be made to prevent the problem from occurring.

To use simply one example a computer model of road and highway usage may be designed to take into account not only hour to hour and day to day changes in traffic patterns but also trends in the number of vehicles on the road shifts in population and employment centers driver reactions to traffic patterns and the like. An example of a traffic simulation project is the Intelligent Transportation Systems Centre and Testbed at the University of Toronto. By running such a simulation over a period of simulated years perhaps only hours or days in real time depending on the complexity of the model predictions can be made about those roads and highways that are likely to be congested in future years and highway and roadwork projects can be planned accordingly.

In a manufacturing context a computer simulation of a manufacturing facility can be constructed and put into simulated operation so that potential problems may be identified and the planned facility redesigned to obviate those problems before the actual facility is constructed. For example the layout of the facility might create an unexpected bottleneck. Without such simulation the real manufacturing facility might be constructed before the problems are identified at which point modification of the facility to address these problems is likely to be extremely costly. Using simulation allows potential problems to be identified at the design stage when they can usually be obviated at substantially lower cost.

In order to properly analyze computer models such as those described above data pertaining to the process and its component subprocesses should be presented in a manner that is useful to the end user who is analyzing the process.

As described above both process modeling and real world processes that require real time data presentation are becoming more and more complex and in many instances consist of hundreds or thousands of sub steps nodes. Frequently computer display animations of the process diagram whether for a simulated or a real world process are used to identify and observe within the computer display bottlenecks heavy activity regions or other important process characteristics. Where the process being represented in the computer display is large there can be a multitude of potentially relevant activities happening simultaneously in various different regions of the process representation in the computer display.

The representation of a large process in a computer display can be problematic. In particular it can be difficult for users to effectively observe and follow the representation of a large process in a computer display for areas of high interest. This is because the magnitude of the process representation prevents the entire representation from being shown on a typical computer display screen in a large enough size sufficient to enable perception of meaningful data.

More particularly where a zoom capability is used to minimize in the computer display the viewing size of the process artifacts so as to increase the information in the viewing area of the computer display such scaling efforts greatly reduce the usability of the process representation since the objects become too small to be read within the computer display. One approach that has been used is to permit users to manually scroll vertically and horizontally within the process representation by means of scroll bars within a window so that they can focus on a particular portion of the process representation. This approach is often cumbersome and inefficient and creates the risk that a user may fail to observe important data in a portion of the process representation that is not within the current viewing window.

In one aspect the present invention is directed toward a computer implemented method for presenting dynamic data pertaining to a process. The method comprises the steps of receiving region information identifying a plurality of user selected regions of the process receiving switching information identifying criteria for switching among the user selected regions receiving dynamic data pertaining to the process and using the dynamic data region information and switching information to generate a dynamic visual representation of the process. The dynamic visual representation of the process emphasizes at any given time only one of the user selected regions and includes dynamic data corresponding to the region being emphasized with the user selected region emphasized at any given time being automatically determined according to the criteria for switching.

In one embodiment the relevant user selected region is emphasized by causing that region to substantially monopolize the dynamic visual representation of the process. In another embodiment the dynamic visual representation comprises a plurality of region displays each corresponding to one of the user selected regions and the relevant user selected region is emphasized by causing the region display corresponding to that user selected region to be larger than any other region display. In a further embodiment the dynamic visual representation comprises a plurality of region displays each corresponding to one of the user selected regions and the relevant user selected region is emphasized by causing the region display corresponding to that user selected region to be visually superimposed over at least one of the other region displays. In a still further embodiment the relevant user selected region is emphasized by use of color. In yet a further embodiment the relevant user selected region is emphasized by use of animation.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a computer implemented method for presenting dynamic data pertaining to a process. The method comprises the steps of receiving region information identifying at least one user selected region of the process receiving dynamic data pertaining to the process and using the dynamic data and region information to generate a dynamic visual representation of at least a portion of the process containing the at least one user selected region. The visual representation emphasizes the at least one user selected region within the context of the portion of the process and includes dynamic data corresponding to each respective user selected region.

In one embodiment the at least one user selected region is emphasized by being larger in size than any non user selected region. Preferably each user selected region comprises one or more process artifacts and each user selected region is made larger in size than any non user selected region by making at least one of the process artifacts within each such user selected region larger than any process artifacts in any non user selected region. In another embodiment each user selected region is emphasized by use of color. In yet another embodiment each user selected region is emphasized by use of animation.

In one particular embodiment the at least one user selected region is a plurality of user selected regions and the method further comprises receiving switching information identifying criteria for switching among the user selected regions. The dynamic visual representation provides additional emphasis emphasizing at any given time only one of the user selected regions with the user selected region that is additionally emphasized at any given time being automatically determined according to the criteria for switching.

In other aspects the present invention is directed to computer program products and data processing systems for implementing the above described methods.

Computer may be implemented using any suitable computer such as an IBM eServer computer or IntelliStation computer which are products of International Business Machines Corporation located in Armonk N.Y. Although the depicted representation shows a personal computer exemplary aspects of the present invention may be implemented in other types of data processing systems such as laptop computers palmtop computers handheld computers network computers servers workstations cellular telephones and similar wireless devices personal digital assistants and other electronic devices on which software programs may be installed. Computer also preferably includes a graphical user interface GUI that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within computer .

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which aspects of the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as personal computer in in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the exemplary aspects may be located. In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including a north bridge and memory controller hub MCH and a south bridge and input output I O controller hub ICH . Processor main memory and graphics processor are connected to north bridge and memory controller hub . Graphics processor may be connected to the MCH through an accelerated graphics port AGP for example.

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter connects to south bridge and I O controller hub and audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM universal serial bus USB ports and other communications ports and PCI PCIe devices connect to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . Hard disk drive HDD and CD ROM drive connect to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS . Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. A super I O SIO device may be connected to south bridge and I O controller hub .

A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus an I O bus and a PCI bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter.

An operating system runs on processor and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the Java programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java and all Java based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both. 

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor . The processes of the present invention are performed by processor using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which may be configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data. A memory may be for example main memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub . A processing unit may include one or more processors. The depicted examples in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. As used herein the terms data processing system and computer system are intended to have a broad meaning and may include personal computers laptop computers palmtop computers handheld computers network computers servers mainframes workstations cellular telephones and similar wireless devices personal digital assistants and other electronic devices on which computer software may be installed.

With reference now to an exemplary process representation is shown generally at . Process representation comprises a start node a plurality of action nodes a plurality of decision nodes a plurality of end nodes and a plurality of connection arrows showing the flow of the process among the action nodes decision nodes and end nodes . In order to maintain simplicity in the Figures only certain instances of these nodes and connection arrows are labeled.

Process tokens e.g. tokens representing persons products being manufactured etc. not shown proceed through the process model along various paths depending on how they are directed by the decision nodes . Action nodes typically have a time requirement which may be variable and a limit as to the number of process tokens that can be handled simultaneously. A process token will not proceed past a particular action node until the time required for the action represented by the node has passed. Accordingly action nodes typically can hold a queue of process tokens that are waiting to be handled. Decision nodes also typically have a time requirement and will also direct a process token along one of a plurality of paths. Where a process representation is of a process simulation decision nodes will typically use statistical modeling to determine which path along which a particular process token will be directed. In the case of a representation of a real world process sensors or other monitoring technology may be used to determine the actual path followed by a particular item or individual of interest.

Process representation is suitable for representing a simple business process such as a process of service in a fast food restaurant. It will be noted here that the example which follows has been simplified considerably from what would be expected for a real fast food service process in order to facilitate ease of explanation. In addition explanation of certain portions of the process model is omitted for brevity. Furthermore it should be noted that while process representation is a particular type of process representation the present invention is not limited in its application to process representations of this type and may in fact be applied to a wide variety of other types of process representations not depicted herein. 

Referring first to region of process representation action node could represent the entry of a customer into the restaurant and self orientation by the customer to locate and approach the order counter. After expiry of the time actual or simulated for this action the process token representing the customer would proceed to decision node Decision node could represent a customer service representative greeting the customer and asking the customer whether the customer wishes to consume his or her meal in the restaurant or carry his or her meal away. If the customer chooses to eat in the restaurant the process token representing the customer is directed by decision node along a first path to action node which could represent the time required to place a tray on the counter and then to action node which could represent the time required to place a disposable placemat on the tray. If the customer chooses to take his or her meal away the process token representing the customer would be directed by decision node along a second path to action node which could represent the time required for the customer service representative to obtain a bag. As noted above exemplary fast food service process is simplified for purposes of explanation in an actual fast food service process placement of a bag would likely be deferred until the size of the order was known. 

Referring now to region of process representation action node could represent a customer service representative advising a customer of the total cost of the order. Decision node could represent a contest wherein every one thousandth 1000 customer receives his or her meal for free such that the process ends upon a determination that a customer is a one thousandth customer and therefore need not pay for the meal. Assuming a determination that the customer is not a one thousandth customer the process continues to decision node which could represent the customer service representative asking the customer if he or she wishes to pay by cash or by debit card and a customer response to this inquiry. Accordingly action node would represent processing of payment by cash and action node would represent processing of payment by debit card. In each case the process would end following payment.

The exemplary fast food restaurant process representation also includes regions and each of which includes one decision node a plurality of action nodes and two end nodes. For brevity the details of the nodes and connectors within regions and and of the remaining portions of the exemplary fast food restaurant process representation are not expressly described or illustrated because the precise particulars of any given process are not relevant to the present invention.

While process representation represents a relatively simple exemplary process created for the purpose of illustration one skilled in the art will appreciate that a process in association with which aspects of the present invention may be used may be vastly more complicated such that hundreds or even thousands of physical printed pages would be required to fully map out the process.

In a preferred embodiment of a process representation each action node and decision node will display certain process related information about the state of the process. In the case of the fast food restaurant process example depicted in nodes could display the size of the queue at any given node and the average time for processing at each node. There is virtually no limit to the type of process related information that can be displayed within or near process nodes with the nature of the information depending on the nature of the process being represented. When displaying such information within or near nodes if the process representation is too small a user may not be able to perceive or comprehend the information presented or else may have to zoom in on a node or group of nodes of interest to the exclusion of other nodes or groups of nodes .

In many instances it may be that only certain regions of a process representation such as process representation are of interest to a user of a computer program displaying data about the process. For example with reference to it may be that only regions and are of interest to a user. Accordingly one aspect of the present invention is directed toward the provision of visual representation options enabling a user to identify criteria that are of particular interest so that a system showing a representation of the process can automatically display a particular region of interest without user intervention.

In one embodiment of an aspect of the present invention a computer system is used to implement a method for presenting dynamic data pertaining to a process. A user can provide and the computer system would receive region information identifying a plurality of user selected regions of the process. The term region as used herein refers to a collection of artifacts such as but not limited to action nodes and decision nodes within a process representation. Preferably regions are user created objects assembled by a user selecting adjacent artifacts within the process representation. Thus an entire process may be divided into a plurality of regions which may be overlapping or more typically non overlapping. Alternatively a user may only define a few regions with the remainder of the process representation not being defined by the user into regions.

For example region in comprises start node action nodes and and decision node and can be viewed as representing an initial greeting region of a fast food process representation. Analogously region in comprises action nodes and decision nodes and and three end nodes and can be viewed as representing a receive and process payment region of a fast food process representation. A user can define a region by for example using a mouse or other input device to draw a box around the process artifacts of interest or by clicking on individual process artifacts. In a preferred embodiment a software implemented region object is created for each user defined region and keeps track of all process activities that occur within a region. Thus process events and activities occurring within these regions are collected. Such process events and activities may include at least the following 

Preferably an implementation of a process representation according to an aspect of the present invention will enable a user to update properties for the region by for example enabling or disabling active status for the region assigning a category to the region assigning a priority to the region and the like. These settings can further increase the effectiveness of aspects of the present invention in filtering out unwanted information during rendering of the process representation.

According to an aspect of the present invention the user will provide the computer system with and the computer system will receive switching information identifying criteria for switching among the user selected regions. Preferably an implementation of a process representation according to an aspect of the present invention will support user definition of the relevant criteria for example through a graphical user interface or a specialized programming language or both . Optionally policies can be defined within a computer program that implements aspects of the present invention to group different criterion to better manage the region selection objective. Thus predefined policies may be provided for the user to select or the user can define customized policies based on new criteria and or combinations of new criteria with existing policies.

Either on an ongoing basis or at various trigger points a computer system implementing aspects of the invention will analyze the collected data for each region and will identify the region with the collected data that most closely matches the user s criteria for switching. The computer system will then modify the process representation display to emphasize the identified region. The trigger points for analyzing the collected data for each region can include one or more of the following 

It will be appreciated that there is a tradeoff between the increased accuracy and responsiveness to be obtained by more frequent analysis of the collected data for each region and the increased processing resources required to carry out such analysis.

In addition combinations of the above events may be specified as criteria for switching. There are other criteria possible such as the region that generates the most profit consumes the most of a certain type of resource etc. There is virtually no limit to the criteria for switching that may be defined and or selected by the user and the criteria will depend on the nature of the process being represented.

A computer system implementing a process representation according to an aspect of the present invention will receive dynamic data pertaining to the process. In the case of a process simulation this will be data provided by a computer system running the simulation which may be the same computer system that is implementing the process representation or a different computer system. In the case of a real world process the data would come from the process itself for example from an array of sensors or other monitoring technology that is tracking the process.

According to an aspect of the present invention a computer system implementing the process representation will use the region information switching information and dynamic data to generate a dynamic visual representation emphasizing at any given time only one of the user selected regions and including dynamic data corresponding to the region being emphasized. As described above the computer system uses the criteria for switching to automatically determine the user selected region to be emphasized at any given time.

With reference now to an exemplary method according to an aspect of the present invention is shown generally at .

At step the computer system receives region information identifying a plurality of regions of the process representation. Preferably the computer system will prompt the user for this information and the user will input this information by way of a graphical user interface GUI implemented in the software that supports the process representation.

At step the computer system implementing the process representation will receive criteria for switching from the user. As noted above the criteria for switching may be based on virtually any combination of measurable process attributes. The criteria for switching will preferably specify either implicitly or explicitly an initial region to emphasize and at step the computer system will emphasize the initial region.

At step the computer system implementing the process representation continuously checks to see that the process simulated or real is continuing i.e. has not ended . If the process has ended then the computer system implementing the process representation will terminate the method . If the process is ongoing then at step the computer system checks to determine whether any particular set of criteria for switching are satisfied. This may be a complex process since different regions may have different criteria for switching and may have different user specified priorities for switching as well. If any set of criteria is satisfied other than for the currently emphasized region then at step the computer system will switch to emphasizing the region for which the criteria for switching were satisfied and will then return to step to check whether the process has ended and assuming that the process is ongoing proceed again to step to check whether another criteria for switching is satisfied. It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments step may optionally be omitted. For example a separate aspect of the computer software implementing the process representation may monitor for whether the process has ended and provide a break instruction to the process when the process being represented ends. It will also be appreciated that the order of steps and may optionally be reversed. In addition the order of steps and may in certain instances be reversed as long as appropriate accommodations are made for the fact that such a reversal means that a user would have to specify the criteria for switching before specifying the regions of interest.

There are numerous ways in which a computer system implementing aspects of the present invention can emphasize one particular region over another.

In one embodiment the system emphasizes the user selected region by including only dynamic data corresponding to that user selected region. By reference to the exemplary process representation shown in region may initially be emphasized according to the criteria for switching for example because the user has specified region as the initial region to be emphasized. Thus a visual display for the computer system would comprise a dynamic visual representation showing only that region i.e. the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would be substantially identical to so that the display of region substantially monopolizes the visual display.

At some point during the process based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching the computer system may determine that region should be emphasized instead of region For example a particular decision may be taken at decision node Accordingly the computer system would change the output to the visual display so that only region was emphasized that is the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would be substantially identical to with region substantially monopolizing the visual display.

At some further point in the process the computer system may determine based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching that region should again be emphasized for example because the average processing time in action node exceeds a specified limit. The computer system would again change the output to the visual display so that only region was emphasized and the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would revert to one substantially identical to The process of switching between regions based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching may continue indefinitely for as long as the process is ongoing.

A computer system implementing aspects of the present invention may switch emphasis between user selected regions such as exemplary regions and by substantially instantaneously changing the view presented by the visual display or by causing the visual display to scroll along the process representation from the formerly emphasized region to the newly emphasized region. Although not shown in the Figures where such scrolling is used in certain instances a small portion e.g. one or a few process artifacts of another region may remain within the view presented by the visual display even though a particular region is being emphasized by substantially monopolizing the display area .

In alternative embodiments according to aspects of the present invention the dynamic visual representation of the process may comprise a plurality of region displays each corresponding to one of the user selected regions. In one such alternative embodiment the user selected region being emphasized at any given time is emphasized by causing the region display corresponding to the relevant user selected region to be larger than any other region display.

With reference now to and there is shown an exemplary embodiment of a dynamic visual representation of portions of fast food process . The exemplary embodiment would be shown on the visual display of a computer system implementing a dynamic visual representation of the exemplary fast food restaurant process representation shown in in accordance with aspects of the present invention. The exemplary dynamic visual representation of fast food restaurant process representation comprises region displays and corresponding to user selected regions and respectively.

With reference now to region may initially be emphasized according to the criteria for switching for example because the user has specified region as the initial region to be emphasized. Thus the visual display presented to a user would be substantially identical to Within region display corresponding to region is emphasized by being larger than any of the other region displays corresponding to regions and respectively .

At some point during the process based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching the computer system may determine that region should be emphasized instead of region For example the number of instances of action node may exceed a specified limit. Responsive to this determination the computer system would modify the output to the visual display so that only region was emphasized. In the particular embodiment described in the context of and the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would be substantially identical to in which region display corresponding to region is larger than any other region display .

At a further point during execution of the process the computer system may determine based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching that region should again be emphasized. For example one of the criteria for switching may be that the average time taken for traversal of action node exceeds a specified value. In response to this determination the computer system would again change the output to the visual display so that only region was emphasized with the result being that the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would revert to one substantially identical to

As was noted above in respect of the discussion of and the process of switching between regions based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching may continue indefinitely for as long as the process is ongoing.

In a further embodiment where the dynamic visual representation of the process comprises a plurality of region displays each corresponding to one of the user selected regions the relevant user selected region is emphasized by causing the region display corresponding to that region to be visually superimposed over at least one of the other region displays. The region being emphasized may be advantageously be superimposed over only a portion of each other region so that at least a portion of each other region remains visible to a user. Referring now to and an exemplary illustration of such an embodiment in the context of the fast food service process representation described in is shown generally at .

Region may initially be emphasized according to the criteria for switching. This may be because the user has specified region as the initial region to be emphasized or because region represents the entry point in the process and is therefore the first to satisfy certain criteria for switching because the nodes in region are the first to be populated as tokens enter the process represented by process representation . Where region is emphasized initially the visual display output by the computer system could be substantially identical to Within region display corresponding to region is emphasized by being visually superimposed over the other region displays corresponding to regions and respectively . While shows region display overlapping all of the other region displays it will be appreciated that a selected region display may be emphasized by overlapping only some of the other region displays without departing from the scope of the present invention.

As the process progresses the computer system may determine based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching that region should be emphasized instead of region For example the average time taken to traverse action node may exceed a specified limit. Responsive to this determination the computer system would modify the output to the visual display so that only region was emphasized. In the particular embodiment wherein regions are emphasized by visually superimposing that region over other regions the dynamic visual representation shown on the display could be substantially identical to Within it can be seen that region display overlaps i.e. is visually superimposed on region displays and .

As the process continues to execute the computer system may determine based on the continuously incoming dynamic data pertaining to the process and according to the criteria for switching that region should again be emphasized. For example a predefined number of tokens or individuals in the case of a real world process may have passed through decision node In response to this determination the computer system would modify the output to the visual display again so that now only region would be emphasized with the result being that the dynamic visual representation shown on the display would revert to one substantially identical to

As was noted above in respect of the discussion of and and of and the process of switching between regions may continue indefinitely for as long as the process is ongoing.

In further embodiments the relevant user selected region may be emphasized by the use of color for example the computer system may cause the relevant user selected region or artifacts within that region to appear in a different preferably more prominent color from the color of the regions not being emphasized. By way of non limiting example the user selected region being emphasized may be presented in bright red while the regions not being emphasized are presented in a pale blue. Alternatively or in addition the relevant user selected region may be emphasized by use of animation. By way of non limiting example the background of the region or artifacts within the region may be made to flash between two different colors so as to attract attention or the progress of tokens through and other activities within the user selected region being emphasized may be represented by animation.

Optionally a single computer program implementing aspects of the present invention may provide a user with the ability to select from more than one technique for emphasizing a selected region. For example a computer program could allow a user to select from emphasizing a region by showing only that region as in and by showing that region as larger than the other regions as in and by having that region overlap at least a portion of at least some other regions as in and by the use of color by use of animation or by any other suitable means.

It will be noted with reference to and and and and that the representations of regions and differ as between the embodiments shown in and and and and In particular the text within each process artifact and the exact layout of the process artifacts may be slightly different among the different embodiments even though the same region is represented. Preferably the computer software implementing aspects of the present invention is enabled to make such slight modifications to region layouts so as to facilitate the display and layout of the regions for ease of perception and comprehension.

According to another aspect of the present invention a computer system implementing that aspect of the invention will receive region information identifying one or more user selected regions of a process which may be a simulated process or a real world process and will also receive dynamic data pertaining to the process. The computer system will then use the dynamic data and the region information to generate a visual representation of a portion of the process or the entire process where proper presentation of the entire process is both feasible and desirable. The portion represented will contain the one or more user selected regions and will display these regions within the context of the portion of the process or entire process . The computer system will cause the visual representation to emphasize the one or more user selected regions and will include dynamic data corresponding to each respective user selected region. Thus a user viewing the visual representation will be not only be able to see the particular portions of the process that are of interest but will also be able to view those portions in the context of the larger process potentially enhancing the user s ability to analyze the process information being presented.

With reference now to a display according to an exemplary implementation of an aspect of the present invention is shown generally at . The display shown in is based upon and displays the process representation shown in . In the exemplary display shown in the user has selected region as a region of particular interest and will therefore have provided information to the computer system identifying that region. As can be seen in region is emphasized over the other regions by having its constituent process artifacts appear larger than the process artifacts in the other regions Advantageously the larger size of the process artifacts enables presentation of additional process details as shown in . Because the process artifacts of emphasized region are larger than those of non emphasized regions the connections among these process artifacts have been repositioned to accommodate this increased size within limited visual display space although without altering the meaning of the emphasized portion of the process representation . Other means of emphasis besides a larger size for process artifacts may be used to emphasize a region within the context of at least a portion of the process representation . For example color or animation may be used.

According to an aspect of the present invention more than one region may be emphasized within the context of at least part of the process representation. With reference now to an exemplary visual display is shown generally at . Regions and are both emphasized within the context of process representation by means of the process artifacts for region and the process artifacts and for region appearing larger than the process artifacts for the regions that are not being emphasized.

The aspect of the present invention wherein one or more particular regions are emphasized within the context of at least a portion of the process representation as shown in and the aspect of the present invention wherein a region is emphasized based on criteria for switching may comprise a single integrated display. Such an integrated display is shown in and and is denoted generally by the reference numeral .

With reference now to both regions and are emphasized within the context of process representation by having their respective process artifacts for region and and for region appear larger than the process artifacts for the non emphasized portions of the visual display. In region best satisfies the criteria for switching and is therefore further emphasized relative to region In particular process artifacts for region are further emphasized relative to process artifacts and for region by use of color shown as grey shading in . Other means of emphasizing region over region may also be used such as animation visible borders having the artifacts within region have an even larger size than the artifacts within region or the like.

With reference now to the computer system has determined according to the criteria for switching that region should be emphasized instead of region Accordingly region is further emphasized relative to region by use of an emphasizing color shown as grey shading in for process artifacts and for region where such emphasizing color is not used for process artifacts for region

Referring now to a schematic representation of a first exemplary embodiment of an architecture for software implementing aspects of the present invention is shown generally at . The exemplary architecture comprises a process engine a region manager a view manager and a plurality of regions to

As noted above each region to is a collection of process artifacts such as but not limited to action nodes and decision nodes within a process representation and may either be a user created object or may be predefined for a particular process. A process representation may be divided into a plurality of regions or there may be only a certain number of regions with the remainder of the process representation not being defined into regions or at least not so defined by the user .

The process engine tracks the status of the various aspects of the process being represented and passes relevant process information on to the region manager . In the case of a simulated process the process engine would typically actually execute the process simulation. In the case of a real world process the process engine would receive process data for example from an array of sensors or other monitoring technology and would analyze and correlate the data to generate process information that would then be passed on to the region manager .

The region manager receives information from the process engine and then uses this information to generate the process data that will be presented by each region within the visual aspect of the process representation. Where only part of the process representation has been classified into regions the region manager can group the unclassified portions of the process representation into one or more virtual regions or alternatively may treat each process artifact that is not part of a user defined region or pre defined region as a separate virtual region to facilitate management of data presentation. The region manager also contains the logic used to identify the region that is the best match for the user defined criteria for switching.

The view manager controls the view of the process representation that is presented to the user and is responsible for adjusting the visual display to emphasize the region identified by the region manager as best matching the criteria for switching specified by the user. Preferably the view manager will centralize the currently emphasized region in the viewing area. The view manager is also or alternatively responsible for emphasizing one or more regions within the context of at least a portion of the process representation.

The view manager may optionally calculate a scroll path for transitioning to the new region to be emphasized that is rather than simply switching between regions the view manager may cause the visual display to scroll along the process representation from the formerly emphasized region to the currently emphasized region. This approach is useful where one or more regions are emphasized within their contexts as shown in and

Alternatively as shown in the functions of the view manager not shown in may be integrated into the region manager so that the region manager is responsible not only for identifying the region that best matches the criteria for switching at any given time but also for adjusting the visual display to emphasize that region and or emphasizing selected regions within the context of at least a portion of the process representation.

Preferably a computer program implementing aspects of the present invention will provide programmable application programming interfaces APIs that enable users to have access to a list of each region s information and query attributes about each region such as number of activities total queue size total resource waiting time or any other metric relating to the process.

The invention can take the form of an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system or apparatus or device . Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

