---

title: Heterocycles as nicotinic acid receptor agonists for the treatment of dyslipidemia
abstract: 

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate, ester, or tautomer thereof, are useful in treating diseases, disorders, or conditions such as metabolic syndrome and dyslipidemia.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07723342&OS=07723342&RS=07723342
owner: Schering Corporation
number: 07723342
owner_city: Kenilworth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060511
---
This application claims benefit of priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. Nos. 60 681 848 filed May 17 2005 60 715 565 filed Sep. 9 2005 and 60 731 039 filed Oct. 28 2005.

The present invention relates to nicotinic acid receptor agonist compounds useful for treating metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes and non alcoholic fatty liver disease pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds pharmaceutical compositions comprising nicotinic acid receptor agonist compounds in combination with other therapeutic agents and methods of treatment using the compounds and compositions to treat conditions such as metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes hepatic steatosis and non alcoholic fatty liver disease.

Nicotinic acid has been used to treat metabolic syndrome and dyslipidemia. However nicotinic acid has undesirable side effects such as flushing and diarrhea. It is therefore desirable to provide improved nicotinic acid receptor agonists with improved efficacy at treating metabolic syndrome and dyslipidemia yet without the undesirable side effects. The compounds of the present invention provide such improved nicotinic acid receptor agonists.

M. Ridi . 1950 vol. 80 p. 121 and M. Ridi . 1952 vol. 82 p. 23 disclose syntheses of barbituric acid derivatives. FR 2563223 discloses nucleoside analogs. T. Paterson et al. 1972 vol. 8 pp. 1041 1050 discloses the synthesis of 8 substituted pyrido 2 3 d pyrimidines. S. Rao . 1974 12 10 pp. 1028 1030 discloses the synthesis of pyrano 2 3 d pyrimidines. M. Skof 1999 51 5 pp. 1051 1058 discloses one step transformations of S 1 benzoyl 3 E dimethylaminomethylidene 5 methoxycarbonyl pyrrolidin 2 one into quinolizinyl and 2H 2 pyranonyl substituted alanine derivatives. R. Toplak . 1999 36 1 pp. 225 235 discloses the synthesis of pyran 2 ones. However the compounds of the above references differ from those of the present invention.

WO 2004 110368 describes combination therapies for the treatment of hypertension comprising the combination of an anti obesity agent and an anti hypertensive agent. However WO 2004 110368 fails to describe nicotinic acid receptor agonists or combinations of one or more nicotinic acid receptor agonists with a second therapeutic agent.

WO 2005 000217 describes combination therapies for the treatment of dyslipidemia comprising the administration of a combination of an anti obesity agent and an anti dyslipidemic agent. However WO 2005 000217 fails to describe nicotinic acid receptor agonists or combinations of one or more nicotinic acid receptor agonists with a second therapeutic agent.

WO 2004 110375 describes combination therapies for the treatment of diabetes comprising the administration of a combination of an anti obesity agent and an anti diabetic agent. However WO 2004 110375 fails to describe nicotinic acid receptor agonists or combinations of one or more nicotinic acid receptor agonists with a second therapeutic agent.

US 2004 0122033 describes combination therapies for the treatment of obesity comprising the administration of a combination of an appetite suppressant and or metabolic rate enhancers and or nutrient absorption inhibitors. However US 2004 0122033 fails to describe nicotinic acid receptor agonists or combinations of one or more nicotinic acid receptor agonists with a second therapeutic agent. US 2004 0229844 describes combination therapies for treating atherosclerosis comprising the administration of a combination of nicotinic acid or another nicotinic acid receptor agonist and a DP receptor antagonist. However the nicotinic acid agonists of US 2004 0229844 are quite different from those of the present invention.

WO2005 077950 describes xanthine derivatives which are agonists of the nicotinic acid receptor HM74A. However the xanthine derivatives of WO2005 077950 are quite different from the compounds of the present invention.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of treating a disease or disorder in a patient such as metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes and non alcoholic fatty liver disease. The method comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of treating a disease or disorder in a patient such as metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes hepatic steatosis and non alcoholic fatty liver disease. The method comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof in combination with at least one additional active ingredient selected from the group consisting of hydroxy substituted azetidinone compounds substituted lactam compounds HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds HMG CoA synthetase inhibitors squalene synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors sterol biosynthesis inhibitors nicotinic acid derivatives bile acid sequestrants inorganic cholesterol sequestrants AcylCoA Cholesterol O acyltransferase inhibitors cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors fish oils containing Omega 3 fatty acids natural water soluble fibers plant stanols and or fatty acid esters of plant stanols e.g. Omacor from Pronova Biocare Oslo Norway low density lipoprotein receptor activators anti oxidants PPAR agonists PPAR agonists FXR receptor modulators LXR receptor agonists lipoprotein synthesis inhibitors renin angiotensin inhibitors microsomal triglyceride transport protein inhibitors bile acid reabsorption inhibitors PPAR agonists triglyceride synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors 5 LO or FLAP inhibitors PPAR partial agonists niacin or niacin receptor agonists 5HT transporter inhibitors NE transporter inhibitors CBantagonists inverse agonists ghrelin antagonists Hantagonists inverse agonists MCH1R antagonists MCH2R agonists antagonists NPY1 antagonists NPY5 antagonists NPY2 agonists NPY4 agonists mGluR5 antagonists leptins leptin agonists modulators leptin derivatives opioid antagonists orexin receptor antagonists BRS3 agonists CCK A agonists CNTF CNTF derivatives CNTF agonists modulators 5HT2c agonists Mc4r agonists monoamine reuptake inhibitors serotonin reuptake inhibitors GLP 1 agonists phentermine topiramate phytopharm compound 57 ghrelin antibodies Mc3r agonists ACC2 inhibitors 3 agonists DGAT1 inhibitors DGAT2 inhibitors FAS inhibitors PDE inhibitors thyroid hormone agonists UCP 1 activators UCP 2 activators UCP 3 activators acyl estrogens glucocorticoid agonists antagonists 11 HSD 1 inhibitors SCD 1 inhibitors lipase inhibitors fatty acid transporter inhibitors dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors glucose transporter inhibitors phosphate transporter inhibitors antidiabetic agents anti hypertensive agents anti dyslipidemic agents DP receptor antagonists apolipoprotein B secretion microsomal triglyceride transfer protein apo B MTP inhibitors sympathomimetic agonists dopamine agonists melanocyte stimulating hormone receptor analogs melanin concentrating hormone antagonists leptons galanin receptor antagonists bombesin agonists neuropeptide Y antagonists thyromimetic agents dehydroepiandrosterone analogs of dehydroepiandrosterone urocortin binding protein antagonists glucagons like peptide 1 receptor agonists human agouti related proteins AGRP neuromedin U receptor agonists noradrenergic anorectic agents appetite suppressants hormone sensitive lipase antagonists MSH receptor analogs glucosidase inhibitors apo A1 milano reverse cholesterol transport inhibitors fatty acid binding protein inhibitors FABP and fatty acid transporter protein inhibitors FATP .

The nicotinic acid receptor agonist compounds of the present invention are useful for treating conditions such as metabolic syndrome dyslipidemia cardiovascular diseases disorders of the peripheral and central nervous system hematological diseases cancer inflammation respiratory diseases gastroenterological diseases diabetes hepatic steatosis and non alcoholic fatty liver disease and other diseases listed herein. One or more compounds of the present invention can be administered alone or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents as described herein.

In a first embodiment the present invention is directed to a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof as described herein.

In another embodiment of the Formula I Ris CH CHCH CHCHCH CHCHCHCH CH CH CH C O O CHCH CHCF CH OH CH CH OH CH N R CH NH 3 methoxyphenyl CHCHCHCHCH CHCHCHCHCHCH CHCHCH CH CHCHCHCH CH CHCHCH CH CHCHCH CHCH CHCHCHCHCH CH CHCHCHCH CH cyclobutyl CHCHCH O CH CHCF CHBrCH CHCHCF CHCHCHCF CHCHCHCHCF CHCHCHCl CH 2 thiophenyl CHCHCH 2 thiophenyl CH cyclopropyl CHCH cyclopropyl CHCHCH cyclopropyl CHCHCHCH cyclopropyl CH cyclopentyl CHCH cyclopentyl CH cyclohexyl CH 4 methylcyclohexyl CHCH cyclohexyl CH cycloheptyl CH 2 cyclopentenyl CHCHC CH CHCHCHC CH CH phenyl CH 2 fluorophenyl CH 3 fluorophenyl or CHBrCH.

In another embodiment Rand Rtogether with the ring carbon atoms to which they are shown attached in Formula I form a cyclopentenyl or cyclohexenyl ring.

In another embodiment of the Formula I Ris H CH cyclopropyl CH C O O CH cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl CH CHCH CH CHCH CHCH CH or CH O CH.

In another embodiment of the Formula I Ris Cl OH O CH O CH cyclopropyl CH C C CH O CH phenyl O CH CH phenyl O CH CHCH phenyl O CH CHCHCH phenyl O CH CH CH phenyl O CH CHCH CH phenyl O CH pyridyl O CH thiazolyl O CH CH thiazolyl O CH pyrimidinyl C O O CH S O CH S O CH S O CHCH S O CH CH S O C CH S O CH cyclopropyl S O CH phenyl S O CH CH phenyl S O N R S O N R S CH CH CH N H cyclobutyl N H phenyl NH NH C O O CH O CH CH CH O N C CH or C O CH wherein the phenyl portions of any of these groups can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Y groups as defined herein the cyclobutyl portions of any of these groups may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more X groups as defined herein and the pyridyl thiazolyl or pyrimidinyl portions of any of these groups can be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Z groups as defined herein.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris H CH CHCH CHCHCH CH C O phenyl CH C O OH CH C N O CH phenyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl CH C O piperidyl CH cyclopropyl CH C O O CH or CH CH CH wherein the phenyl of said CH C O phenyl of Ris unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Y groups as defined herein said cyclopropyl the cyclopropyl of said CH cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or the piperidyl of said CH C O piperidyl of Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more X groups as defined herein.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris OH Cl O CH O CH cyclopropyl O CH CH CH O CH phenyl O CH CH phenyl O CH CHCH phenyl O CH CHCHCH phenyl O CH CH CH phenyl O CH CHCH CH phenyl O CH pyridyl O CH thiazolyl O CH pyrimidinyl and N H cyclobutyl N H phenyl NH NH C O O CH wherein the phenyl of said O CH phenyl O CH CH phenyl O CH CHCH phenyl O CH CHCHCH phenyl O CH CH CH phenyl or O CH CHCH CH phenyl of Ris unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups Y as defined herein and the pyridyl thiazolyl or pyrimidinyl of said O CH pyridyl O CH thiazolyl or O CH pyrimidinyl of Ris unsubstituted or substituted with one or more groups Z as defined herein.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I each Ris independently H CH CHCH CHCHCH unsubstituted phenyl phenyl substituted with one or more Y groups cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl C O CH and C O phenyl. Alternatively two groups R together with the N atom to which they are attached form an azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl triazolyl or pyrrolyl ring.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris CH unsubstituted phenyl phenyl substituted with one or more Y groups piperidyl and OH.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris CH CHCH CH CH C CH CH cyclopropyl CH CH CH allyl CH phenyl and CH CH phenyl.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris H CHC CH CH cyclopropyl CHCH CH CH phenyl CH CH phenyl CH CHCH phenyl CH CH CH phenyl CH pyridyl CH thiazolyl CH CH thiazolyl CH pyrimidyl CH CHCH CH phenyl CH CHCHCH phenyl wherein the phenyl portion of CH phenyl CH CH phenyl CH CHCH phenyl CH CH CH phenyl CH CHCH CH phenyl and CH CHCHCH phenyl of Rare unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Y groups and the pyridyl thiazolyl and pyrimidyl portion of said CH pyridyl CH thiazolyl CH CH thiazolyl CH pyrimidyl are unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Z groups.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris H CH or phenyl wherein said phenyl is unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Y groups. Alternatively two groups R together with the N atom to which they are attached form an azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl triazolyl or pyrrolyl ring.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris H CH CHCH or unsubstituted pyridyl or pyridyl substituted with one or more Z groups.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I Ris H CH or CH phenyl wherein the phenyl portion of said CH phenyl of Ris unsubstituted or substituted with one or more Y groups as defined herein.

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I each X is independently selected from the group consisting of CH CF F Br and Cl O CH O CF CN OH phenyl and N oxide 

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I each Y is independently selected from the group consisting of F Cl Br CH CF O CH O CF CN OH and phenyl and

In another embodiment of the compound of Formula I each Z is independently selected from the group consisting of CH CF F Br and Cl O CH O CF CN OH phenyl and N oxide.

In all embodiments of the present invention when L is f and R Rand Rare each H then Ris not CH. One of skill in the art will recognize that the present invention does not include the following compound or tautomeric forms thereof 

The moiety L of Formula I of the present invention can have any chemically stable orientation. That is when L is f the compounds of Formula I of the present invention can include the following 

The compounds of Formula I can be purified to a degree suitable for use as a pharmaceutically active substance. That is the compounds of Formula I can have a purity of 95 wt or more excluding adjuvants such as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers solvents etc. which are used in formulating the compound of Formula I into a conventional form such as a pill capsule IV solution etc. suitable for administration into a patient . The purity can be 97 wt or more or 99 wt or more. A purified compound of Formula I includes a single isomer having a purity as discussed above of 95 wt or more 97 wt or more or 99 wt or more as discussed above.

Alternatively the purified compound of Formula I can include a mixture of isomers each having a structure according to Formula I where the amount of impurity i.e. compounds or other contaminants exclusive of adjuvants as discussed above is 5 wt or less 3 wt or less or 1 wt or less. For example the purified compound of Formula I can be an isomeric mixture of compounds of Structure I where the ratio of the amounts of the two isomers is approximately 1 1 and the combined amount of the two isomers is 95 wt or more 97 wt or more or 99 wt or more.

Compounds of Formula I and salts solvates esters and prodrugs thereof may exist in their tautomeric form for example as an amide or imino ether . All such tautomeric forms are contemplated herein as part of the present invention. For example the compounds of the present invention include tautomeric forms as shown below 

As used above and throughout this disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings 

 Alkyl means an aliphatic hydrocarbon group which may be straight or branched and comprising about 1 to about 20 carbon atoms in the chain. Preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 12 carbon atoms in the chain. More preferred alkyl groups contain about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain. Branched means that one or more lower alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl are attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl means a group having about 1 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain which may be straight or branched. Alkyl may be unsubstituted or optionally substituted by one or more substituents which may be the same or different each substituent being independently selected from the group consisting of halo alkyl aryl cycloalkyl cyano hydroxy alkoxy alkylthio amino NH alkyl NH cycloalkyl N alkyl carboxy and C O O alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl and t butyl.

 Alkenyl means an aliphatic hydrocarbon group containing at least one carbon carbon double bond and which may be straight or branched and comprising about 2 to about 15 carbon atoms in the chain. Preferred alkenyl groups have about 2 to about 12 carbon atoms in the chain and more preferably about 2 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain. Branched means that one or more lower alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl are attached to a linear alkenyl chain. Lower alkenyl means about 2 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain which may be straight or branched. Alkenyl may be unsubstituted or optionally substituted by one or more substituents which may be the same or different each substituent being independently selected from the group consisting of halo alkyl. aryl cycloalkyl cyano alkoxy and S alkyl . Non limiting examples of suitable alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl n butenyl 3 methylbut 2 enyl n pentenyl octenyl and decenyl.

 Alkylene means a difunctional group obtained by removal of a hydrogen atom from an alkyl group that is defined above. Non limiting examples of alkylene include methylene ethylene and propylene.

 Alkenylene means a difunctional group obtained by removal of a hydrogen from an alkenyl group that is defined above. Non limiting examples of alkenylene include CH CH C CH CH and CH CHCH .

 Alkylene aryl or aryl alkylene means a group in which the aryl and alkylene are as previously described. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkylene. The alkylene moiety can be bonded to one or more aryl moieties. Alkylene aryls can comprise a lower alkylene group. Non limiting examples of suitable alkylene aryl groups include benzyl 2 phenethyl 2 2 diphenylethylene and naphthalenylmethyl.

 Alkynyl means an aliphatic hydrocarbon group containing at least one carbon carbon triple bond and which may be straight or branched and comprising about 2 to about 15 carbon atoms in the chain. Preferred alkynyl groups have about 2 to about 12 carbon atoms in the chain and more preferably about 2 to about 4 carbon atoms in the chain. Branched means that one or more lower alkyl groups such as methyl ethyl or propyl are attached to a linear alkynyl chain. Lower alkynyl means about 2 to about 6 carbon atoms in the chain which may be straight or branched. Non limiting examples of suitable alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl 2 butynyl and 3 methylbutynyl. Alkynyl may be unsubstituted or optionally substituted by one or more substituents which may be the same or different each substituent being independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl.

 Aryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 6 to about 14 carbon atoms preferably about 6 to about 10 carbon atoms. The aryl group can be optionally substituted with one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined herein. Non limiting examples of suitable aryl groups include phenyl and naphthyl.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 5 to about 14 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the ring atoms is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination. Preferred heteroaryls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The heteroaryl can be optionally substituted by one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined herein. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heteroaryl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. A nitrogen atom of a heteroaryl can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide. Heteroaryl may also include a heteroaryl as defined above fused to an aryl as defined above. Non limiting examples of suitable heteroaryls include pyridyl pyrazinyl furanyl thienyl pyrimidinyl pyridone including N substituted pyridones isoxazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl pyrazolyl furazanyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl quinoxalinyl phthalazinyl oxindolyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl imidazo 2 1 b thiazolyl benzofurazanyl indolyl azaindolyl benzimidazolyl benzothienyl quinolinyl imidazolyl thienopyridyl quinazolinyl thienopyrimidyl pyrrolopyridyl imidazopyridyl isoquinolinyl benzoazaindolyl 1 2 4 triazinyl benzothiazolyl and the like. The term heteroaryl also refers to partially saturated heteroaryl moieties such as for example tetrahydroisoquinolyl tetrahydroquinolyl and the like.

 Aralkyl or arylalkyl means an aryl alkyl group in which the aryl and alkyl are as previously described. Preferred aralkyls comprise a lower alkyl group. Non limiting examples of suitable aralkyl groups include benzyl 2 phenethyl and naphthalenylmethyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkyl.

 Alkylaryl means an alkyl aryl group in which the alkyl and aryl are as previously described. Preferred alkylaryls comprise a lower alkyl group. Non limiting example of a suitable alkylaryl group is tolyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the aryl.

 Cycloalkyl means a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms. Preferred cycloalkyl rings contain about 5 to about 7 ring atoms. The cycloalkyl can be optionally substituted with one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined above. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic cycloalkyls include cyclopropyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Non limiting examples of suitable multicyclic cycloalkyls include 1 decalinyl norbornyl adamantyl and the like.

 Cycloalkylalkyl means a cycloalkyl moiety as defined above linked via an alkyl moiety defined above to a parent core. Non limiting examples of suitable cycloalkylalkyls include cyclohexylmethyl adamantylmethyl and the like.

 Cycloalkenyl means a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms which contains at least one carbon carbon double bond. Preferred cycloalkenyl rings contain about 5 to about 7 ring atoms. The cycloalkenyl can be optionally substituted with one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined above. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic cycloalkenyls include cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohepta 1 3 dienyl and the like. Non limiting example of a suitable multicyclic cycloalkenyl is norbornylenyl.

 Cycloalkenylalkyl means a cycloalkenyl moiety as defined above linked via an alkyl moiety defined above to a parent core. Non limiting examples of suitable cycloalkenylalkyls include cyclopentenylmethyl cyclohexenylmethyl and the like.

 Ring system substituent means a substituent attached to an aromatic or non aromatic ring system which for example replaces an available hydrogen on the ring system. Ring system substituents may be the same or different each being independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl alkenyl alkynyl aryl heteroaryl aralkyl alkylaryl heteroaralkyl heteroarylalkenyl heteroarylalkynyl alkylheteroaryl hydroxy hydroxyalkyl alkoxy aryloxy aralkoxy acyl aroyl halo nitro cyano carboxy alkoxycarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl aralkoxycarbonyl alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl heteroarylsulfonyl alkylthio arylthio heteroarylthio aralkylthio heteroaralkylthio cycloalkyl heterocyclyl C N CN NH C NH NH C NH NH alkyl YYN YYN alkyl YYNC O YYNSO and SONYY wherein Yand Ycan be the same or different and are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and aralkyl. Ring system substituent may also mean a single moiety which simultaneously replaces two available hydrogens on two adjacent carbon atoms one H on each carbon on a ring system. Examples of such moiety are methylene dioxy ethylenedioxy C CH and the like which form moieties such as for example 

 Heteroarylalkyl means a heteroaryl moiety as defined above linked via an alkyl moiety defined above to a parent core. Non limiting examples of suitable heteroaryls include 2 pyridinylmethyl quinolinylmethyl and the like.

 Heterocyclyl means a non aromatic saturated monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the atoms in the ring system is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur alone or in combination. There are no adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms present in the ring system. Preferred heterocyclyls contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heterocyclyl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. Any NH in a heterocyclyl ring may exist protected such as for example as an N Boc N CBz N Tos group and the like such protections are also considered part of this invention. The heterocyclyl can be optionally substituted by one or more ring system substituents which may be the same or different and are as defined herein. The nitrogen or sulfur atom of the heterocyclyl can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide S oxide or S S dioxide. Non limiting examples of suitable monocyclic heterocyclyl rings include piperidyl pyrrolidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thiazolidinyl 1 4 dioxanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl lactam lactone and the like. Heterocyclyl may also mean a single moiety e.g. carbonyl which simultaneously replaces two available hydrogens on the same carbon atom on a ring system. Example of such moiety is pyrrolidone 

 Heterocyclylalkyl means a heterocyclyl moiety as defined above linked via an alkyl moiety defined above to a parent core. Non limiting examples of suitable heterocyclylalkyls include piperidinylmethyl piperazinylmethyl and the like.

 Heterocyclenyl means a non aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic ring system comprising about 3 to about 10 ring atoms preferably about 5 to about 10 ring atoms in which one or more of the atoms in the ring system is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom alone or in combination and which contains at least one carbon carbon double bond or carbon nitrogen double bond. There are no adjacent oxygen and or sulfur atoms present in the ring system. Preferred heterocyclenyl rings contain about 5 to about 6 ring atoms. The prefix aza oxa or thia before the heterocyclenyl root name means that at least a nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom respectively is present as a ring atom. The heterocyclenyl can be optionally substituted by one or more ring system substituents wherein ring system substituent is as defined above. The nitrogen or sulfur atom of the heterocyclenyl can be optionally oxidized to the corresponding N oxide S oxide or S S dioxide. Non limiting examples of suitable heterocyclenyl groups include 1 2 3 4 tetrahydropyridinyl 1 2 dihydropyridinyl 1 4 dihydropyridinyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridinyl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydropyrimidinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl 2 imidazolinyl 2 pyrazolinyl dihydroimidazolyl dihydrooxazolyl dihydrooxadiazolyl dihydrothiazolyl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyranyl dihydrofuranyl fluorodihydrofuranyl 7 oxabicyclo 2.2.1 heptenyl dihydrothiophenyl dihydrothiopyranyl and the like. Heterocyclenyl may also mean a single moiety e.g. carbonyl which simultaneously replaces two available hydrogens on the same carbon atom on a ring system. Example of such moiety is pyrrolidinone 

 Heterocyclenylalkyl means a heterocyclenyl moiety as defined above linked via an alkyl moiety defined above to a parent core.

 Cycloalkylene means a difunctional group obtained by removal of a hydrogen atom from a cycloalkyl group that is defined above. Non limiting examples of cycloalkylene include

It should be noted that in hetero atom containing ring systems of this invention there are no hydroxyl groups on carbon atoms adjacent to a N O or S as well as there are no N or S groups on carbon adjacent to another heteroatom. Thus for example in the ring 

 Alkynylalkyl means an alkynyl alkyl group in which the alkynyl and alkyl are as previously described. Alkynylalkyls can contain a lower alkynyl and a lower alkyl group. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable alkynylalkyl groups include propargylmethyl.

 Heteroaralkyl means a heteroaryl alkyl group in which the heteroaryl and alkyl are as previously described. Preferred heteroaralkyls contain a lower alkyl group. Non limiting examples of suitable aralkyl groups include pyridylmethyl and quinolin 3 ylmethyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the alkyl.

 Hydroxyalkyl means a HO alkyl group in which alkyl is as previously defined. Preferred hydroxyalkyls contain lower alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable hydroxyalkyl groups include hydroxymethyl and 2 hydroxyethyl.

 Acyl means an H C O alkyl C O or cycloalkyl C O group in which the various groups are as previously described. The bond to the parent moiety is through the carbonyl. Preferred acyls contain a lower alkyl. Non limiting examples of suitable acyl groups include formyl acetyl and propanoyl.

 Aroyl means an aryl C O group in which the aryl group is as previously described. The bond to the parent moiety is through the carbonyl. Non limiting examples of suitable groups include benzoyl and 1 naphthoyl.

 Alkoxy means an alkyl O group in which the alkyl group is as previously described. Non limiting examples of suitable alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy and n butoxy. The bond to the parent moiety is through the ether oxygen.

 Aryloxy means an aryl O group in which the aryl group is as previously described. Non limiting examples of suitable aryloxy groups include phenoxy and naphthoxy. The bond to the parent moiety is through the ether oxygen.

 Aralkyloxy means an aralkyl O group in which the aralkyl group is as previously described. Non limiting examples of suitable aralkyloxy groups include benzyloxy and 1 or 2 naphthalenemethoxy. The bond to the parent moiety is through the ether oxygen.

 Alkylthio means an alkyl S group in which the alkyl group is as previously described. Non limiting examples of suitable alkylthio groups include methylthio and ethylthio. The bond to the parent moiety is through the sulfur.

 Arylthio means an aryl S group in which the aryl group is as previously described. Non limiting examples of suitable arylthio groups include phenylthio and naphthylthio. The bond to the parent moiety is through the sulfur.

 Aralkylthio means an aralkyl S group in which the aralkyl group is as previously described. Non limiting example of a suitable aralkylthio group is benzylthio. The bond to the parent moiety is through the sulfur.

 Alkoxycarbonyl means an alkyl O CO group. Non limiting examples of suitable alkoxycarbonyl groups include methoxycarbonyl and ethoxycarbonyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the carbonyl.

 Aryloxycarbonyl means an aryl O C O group. Non limiting examples of suitable aryloxycarbonyl groups include phenoxycarbonyl and naphthoxycarbonyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the carbonyl.

 Aralkoxycarbonyl means an aralkyl O C O group. Non limiting example of a suitable aralkoxycarbonyl group is benzyloxycarbonyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the carbonyl.

 Alkylsulfonyl means an alkyl S O group. Preferred groups are those in which the alkyl group is lower alkyl. The bond to the parent moiety is through the sulfonyl.

The term substituted means that one or more hydrogens on the designated atom is replaced with a selection from the indicated group provided that the designated atom s normal valency under the existing circumstances is not exceeded and that the substitution results in a stable compound. Combinations of substituents and or variables are permissible only if such combinations result in stable compounds. By stable compound or stable structure is meant a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

The term optionally substituted means optional substitution with the specified groups radicals or moieties.

The term purified in purified form or in isolated and purified form for a compound refers to the physical state of said compound after being isolated from a synthetic process e.g. from a reaction mixture or natural source or combination thereof. Thus the term purified in purified form or in isolated and purified form for a compound refers to the physical state of said compound after being obtained from a purification process or processes described herein or well known to the skilled artisan e.g. chromatography recrystallization and the like in sufficient purity to be characterizable by standard analytical techniques described herein or well known to the skilled artisan.

It should also be noted that any carbon as well as heteroatom with unsatisfied valences in the text schemes examples and Tables herein is assumed to have the sufficient number of hydrogen atom s to satisfy the valences.

When a functional group in a compound is termed protected this means that the group is in modified form to preclude undesired side reactions at the protected site when the compound is subjected to a reaction. Suitable protecting groups will be recognized by those with ordinary skill in the art as well as by reference to standard textbooks such as for example T. W. Greene et al 1991 Wiley New York.

When any variable e.g. aryl heterocycle R etc. occurs more than one time in any constituent or in Formula I its definition on each occurrence is independent of its definition at every other occurrence.

As used herein the term composition is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts.

Prodrugs and solvates of the compounds of the invention are also contemplated herein. A discussion of prodrugs is provided in T. Higuchi and V. Stella 1987 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in 1987 Edward B. Roche ed. American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press. The term prodrug means a compound e.g. a drug precursor that is transformed in vivo to yield a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or solvate of the compound. The transformation may occur by various mechanisms e.g. by metabolic or chemical processes such as for example through hydrolysis in blood. A discussion of the use of prodrugs is provided by T. Higuchi and W. Stella Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 of the A.C.S. Symposium Series and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987.

For example if a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or solvate of the compound contains a carboxylic acid functional group a prodrug can comprise an ester formed by the replacement of the hydrogen atom of the acid group with a group such as for example C C alkyl C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl having from 4 to 9 carbon atoms 1 methyl 1 alkanoyloxy ethyl having from 5 to 10 carbon atoms alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl having from 3 to 6 carbon atoms 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl having from 4 to 7 carbon atoms 1 methyl 1 alkoxycarbonyloxy ethyl having from 5 to 8 carbon atoms N alkoxycarbonyl aminomethyl having from 3 to 9 carbon atoms 1 N alkoxycarbonyl amino ethyl having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms 3 phthalidyl 4 crotonolactonyl gamma butyrolacton 4 yl di N N C C alkylamino C C alkyl such as dimethylaminoethyl carbamoyl C C alkyl N N di C C alkylcarbamoyl C C alkyl and piperidino pyrrolidino or morpholino C C alkyl and the like.

Similarly if a compound of Formula I contains an alcohol functional group a prodrug can be formed by the replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as for example C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl C C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl C C alkanoyl amino C C alkanyl arylacyl and aminoacyl or aminoacyl aminoacyl where each aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate and the like.

If a compound of Formula I incorporates an amine functional group a prodrug can be formed by the replacement of a hydrogen atom in the amine group with a group such as for example R carbonyl RO carbonyl NRR carbonyl where R and R are each independently C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl benzyl or R carbonyl is a natural aminoacyl or natural aminoacyl C OH C O OYwherein Yis H C C alkyl or benzyl C OY Ywherein Yis C C alkyl and Yis C C alkyl carboxy C C alkyl amino C C alkyl or mono N or di N N C C alkylaminoalkyl C Y Ywherein Yis H or methyl and Yis mono N or di N N C C alkylamino morpholino piperidin 1 yl or pyrrolidin 1 yl and the like.

One or more compounds of the invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms. Solvate means a physical association of a compound of this invention with one or more solvent molecules. This physical association involves varying degrees of ionic and covalent bonding including hydrogen bonding. In certain instances the solvate will be capable of isolation for example when one or more solvent molecules are incorporated in the crystal lattice of the crystalline solid. Solvate encompasses both solution phase and isolatable solvates. Non limiting examples of suitable solvates include ethanolates methanolates and the like. Hydrate is a solvate wherein the solvent molecule is HO.

One or more compounds of the invention may optionally be converted to a solvate. Preparation of solvates is generally known. Thus for example M. Caira et al 93 3 601 611 2004 describe the preparation of the solvates of the antifungal fluconazole in ethyl acetate as well as from water. Similar preparations of solvates hemisolvate hydrates and the like are described by E. C. van Tonder et al 5 1 article 12 2004 and A. L. Bingham et al 603 604 2001 . A typical non limiting process involves dissolving the inventive compound in desired amounts of the desired solvent organic or water or mixtures thereof at a higher than ambient temperature and cooling the solution at a rate sufficient to form crystals which are then isolated by standard methods. Analytical techniques such as for example I. R. spectroscopy show the presence of the solvent or water in the crystals as a solvate or hydrate .

 Effective amount or therapeutically effective amount is meant to describe an amount of compound or a composition of the present invention effective in inhibiting the above noted diseases and thus producing the desired therapeutic ameliorative inhibitory or preventative effect.

The compounds of Formula I can form salts which are also within the scope of this invention. Reference to a compound of Formula I herein is understood to include reference to salts thereof unless otherwise indicated. The term salt s as employed herein denotes acidic salts formed with inorganic and or organic acids as well as basic salts formed with inorganic and or organic bases. In addition when a compound of Formula I contains both a basic moiety such as but not limited to a pyridine or imidazole and an acidic moiety such as but not limited to a carboxylic acid zwitterions inner salts may be formed and are included within the term salt s as used herein. Pharmaceutically acceptable i.e. non toxic physiologically acceptable salts are preferred although other salts are also useful. Salts of the compounds of the Formula I may be formed for example by reacting a compound of Formula I with an amount of acid or base such as an equivalent amount in a medium such as one in which the salt precipitates or in an aqueous medium followed by lyophilization.

Exemplary acid addition salts include acetates ascorbates benzoates benzenesulfonates bisulfates borates butyrates citrates camphorates camphorsulfonates fumarates hydrochlorides hydrobromides hydroiodides lactates maleates methanesulfonates naphthalenesulfonates nitrates oxalates phosphates propionates salicylates succinates sulfates tartarates thiocyanates toluenesulfonates also known as tosylates and the like. Additionally acids which are generally considered suitable for the formation of pharmaceutically useful salts from basic pharmaceutical compounds are discussed for example by P. Stahl et al Camille G. eds. . 2002 Zurich Wiley VCH S. Berge et al 1977 66 1 1 19 P. Gould 1986 33 201 217 Anderson et al 1996 Academic Press New York and in Food Drug Administration Washington D.C. on their website . These disclosures are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Exemplary basic salts include ammonium salts alkali metal salts such as sodium lithium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium and magnesium salts salts with organic bases for example organic amines such as dicyclohexylamines t butyl amines and salts with amino acids such as arginine lysine and the like. Basic nitrogen containing groups may be quarternized with agents such as lower alkyl halides e.g. methyl ethyl and butyl chlorides bromides and iodides dialkyl sulfates e.g. dimethyl diethyl and dibutyl sulfates long chain halides e.g. decyl lauryl and stearyl chlorides bromides and iodides aralkyl halides e.g. benzyl and phenethyl bromides and others.

All such acid salts and base salts are intended to be pharmaceutically acceptable salts within the scope of the invention and all acid and base salts are considered equivalent to the free forms of the corresponding compounds for purposes of the invention.

Pharmaceutically acceptable esters of the present compounds include the following groups 1 carboxylic acid esters obtained by esterification of the hydroxy groups in which the non carbonyl moiety of the carboxylic acid portion of the ester grouping is selected from straight or branched chain alkyl for example acetyl n propyl t butyl or n butyl alkoxyalkyl for example methoxymethyl aralkyl for example benzyl aryloxyalkyl for example phenoxymethyl aryl for example phenyl optionally substituted with for example halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy or amino 2 sulfonate esters such as alkyl or aralkylsulfonyl for example methanesulfonyl 3 amino acid esters for example L valyl or L isoleucyl 4 phosphonate esters and 5 mono di or triphosphate esters. The phosphate esters may be further esterified by for example a Calcohol or reactive derivative thereof or by a 2 3 di C acyl glycerol.

Compounds of Formula I and salts solvates esters and prodrugs thereof may exist in their tautomeric form for example as an amide or imino ether . All such tautomeric forms are contemplated herein as part of the present invention.

The compounds of Formula I may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I as well as mixtures thereof including racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a compound of Formula I incorporates a double bond or a fused ring both the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures are embraced within the scope of the invention.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as for example by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of Formula I may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of chiral HPLC column.

It is also possible that the compounds of Formula I may exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. Also for example all keto enol and imine enamine forms of the compounds are included in the invention.

All stereoisomers for example geometric isomers optical isomers and the like of the present compounds including those of the salts solvates esters and prodrugs of the compounds as well as the salts solvates and esters of the prodrugs such as those which may exist due to asymmetric carbons on various substituents including enantiomeric forms which may exist even in the absence of asymmetric carbons rotameric forms atropisomers and diastereomeric forms are contemplated within the scope of this invention as are positional isomers such as for example 4 pyridyl and 3 pyridyl . For example if a compound of Formula I incorporates a double bond or a fused ring both the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures are embraced within the scope of the invention. Also for example all keto enol and imine enamine forms of the compounds are included in the invention. .

Individual stereoisomers of the compounds of the invention may for example be substantially free of other isomers or may be admixed for example as racemates or with all other or other selected stereoisomers. The chiral centers of the present invention can have the S or R configuration as defined by the 1974 Recommendations. The use of the terms salt solvate ester prodrug and the like is intended to equally apply to the salt solvate ester and prodrug of enantiomers stereoisomers rotamers tautomers positional isomers racemates or prodrugs of the inventive compounds.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labelled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C N O O P P S F and Cl respectively.

Certain isotopically labelled compounds of Formula I e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are particularly preferred for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Isotopically labelled compounds of Formula I can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples hereinbelow by substituting an appropriate isotopically labelled reagent for a non isotopically labelled reagent.

Polymorphic forms of the compounds of Formula I and of the salts solvates esters and prodrugs of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included in the present invention.

The term pharmaceutical composition is also intended to encompass both the bulk composition and individual dosage units comprised of more than one e.g. two pharmaceutically active agents such as for example a compound of the present invention and an additional agent selected from the lists of the additional agents described herein along with any pharmaceutically inactive excipients. The bulk composition and each individual dosage unit can contain fixed amounts of the afore said more than one pharmaceutically active agents . The bulk composition is material that has not yet been formed into individual dosage units. An illustrative dosage unit is an oral dosage unit such as tablets pills and the like. Similarly the herein described method of treating a patient by administering a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is also intended to encompass the administration of the afore said bulk composition and individual dosage units.

The compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof according to the invention have pharmacological properties in particular the compounds of Formula I can be nicotinic acid receptor agonists.

The compounds of Formula I of the present invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof are useful in treating diseases or conditions including dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome.

The compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can be administered in any suitable form e.g. alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent in a pharmaceutical composition according to standard pharmaceutical practice. The compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can be administered orally or parenterally including intravenous intramuscular interperitoneal subcutaneous rectal or topical routes of administration or if so selected by a combination of one or more of the above shown methods.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof can be in a form suitable for oral administration e.g. as tablets troches capsules lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions syrups or elixirs. Oral compositions may be prepared by any conventional pharmaceutical method and may also contain sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents.

The amount of compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof administered to a patient can be determined by a physician based on the age weight and response of the patient as well as by the severity of the condition treated. For example the amount of compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate ester or tautomer thereof administered to the patient can range from about 0.1 mg kg body weight per day to about 60 mg kg d preferably about 0.5 mg kg d to about 40 mg kg d.

The compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can also be administered in combination with other therapeutic agents. For example one or more compounds of Formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates or esters thereof can be administered with one or more additional active ingredients selected from the group consisting of hydroxy substituted azetidinone compounds substituted lactam compounds HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds HMG CoA synthetase inhibitors squalene synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors sterol biosynthesis inhibitors nicotinic acid derivatives bile acid sequestrants inorganic cholesterol sequestrants AcylCoA Cholesterol O acyltransferase inhibitors cholesteryl ester transfer protein inhibitors fish oils containing Omega 3 fatty acids natural water soluble fibers plant stanols and or fatty acid esters of plant stanols anti oxidants PPAR agonists PPAR agonists FXR receptor modulators LXR receptor agonists lipoprotein synthesis inhibitors renin angiotensin inhibitors microsomal triglyceride transport protein inhibitors bile acid reabsorption inhibitors PPAR agonists triglyceride synthesis inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors low density lipoprotein receptor inducers or activators platelet aggregation inhibitors 5 LO or FLAP inhibitors PPAR partial agonists niacin or niacin receptor agonists 5HT transporter inhibitors NE transporter inhibitors CBantagonists inverse agonists ghrelin antagonists Hantagonists inverse agonists MCH1R antagonists MCH2R agonists antagonists NPY1 antagonists NPY5 antagonists NPY2 agonists NPY4 agonists mGluR5 antagonists leptins leptin agonists modulators leptin derivatives opioid antagonists orexin receptor antagonists BRS3 agonists CCK A agonists CNTF CNTF derivatives CNTF agonists modulators 5HT2c agonists Mc4r agonists monoamine reuptake inhibitors serotonin reuptake inhibitors GLP 1 agonists phentermine topiramate phytopharm compound 57 ghrelin antibodies Mc3r agonists ACC inhibitors 3 agonists DGAT1 inhibitors DGAT2 inhibitors FAS inhibitors PDE inhibitors thyroid hormone agonists UCP 1 activators UCP 2 activators UCP 3 activators acyl estrogens glucocorticoid agonists antagonists 11 HSD 1 inhibitors SCD 1 inhibitors lipase inhibitors fatty acid transporter inhibitors dicarboxylate transporter inhibitors glucose transporter inhibitors phosphate transporter inhibitors anti diabetic agents anti hypertensive agents anti dyslipidemic agents DP receptor antagonists apolipoprotein B secretion microsomal triglyceride transfer protein apo B MTP inhibitors sympathomimetic agonists dopamine agonists melanocyte stimulating hormone receptor analogs melanin concentrating hormone antagonists leptons galanin receptor antagonists bombesin agonists neuropeptide Y antagonists thyromimetic agents dehydroepiandrosterone analogs of dehydroepiandrosterone urocortin binding protein antagonists glucagons like peptide 1 receptor agonists human agouti related proteins AGRP neuromedin U receptor agonists noradrenergic anorectic agents appetite suppressants hormone sensitive lipase antagonists MSH receptor analogs glucosidase inhibitors apo A1 milano reverse cholesterol transport inhibitors fatty acid binding protein inhibitors FABP and fatty acid transporter protein inhibitors FATP .

Non limiting examples of hydroxy substituted azetidinone compounds and substituted lactam compounds useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 767 115 5 624 920 5 668 990 5 656 624 and 5 688 787 5 756 470 U.S. Patent Application Nos. 2002 0137690 and 2002 0137689 and PCT Patent Application No. WO 2002 066464 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. A preferred azetidinone compound is ezetimibe for example ZETIA which is available from Schering Plough Corporation .

Non limiting examples of HMG CoA reductase inhibitor compounds useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are lovastatin for example MEVACOR which is available from Merck Co. simvastatin for example ZOCOR which is available from Merck Co. pravastatin for example PRAVACHOL which is available from Bristol Meyers Squibb atorvastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin CI 981 rivastatin sodium 7 4 fluorophenyl 2 6 diisopropyl 5 methoxymethylpyridin 3 yl 3 5 dihydroxy 6 heptanoate rosuvastatin calcium CRESTOR from AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals pitavastatin such as NK 104 of Negma Kowa of Japan .

A non limiting example of a HMG CoA synthetase inhibitor useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is for example L 659 699 E E 11 3 R hydroxy methyl 4 oxo 2 R oxetanyl 3 5 7R trimethyl 2 4 undecadienoic acid .

A non limiting example of a squalene synthesis inhibitor useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is for example squalestatin 1.

A non limiting example of a squalene epoxidase inhibitor useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is for example NB 598 E N ethyl N 6 6 dimethyl 2 hepten 4 ynyl 3 3 3 bithiophen 5 yl methoxy benzene methanamine hydrochloride .

A non limiting example of a sterol biosynthesis inhibitor useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is for example DMP 565.

Non limiting examples of nicotinic acid derivatives e.g. compounds comprising a pyridine 3 carboxylate structure or a pyrazine 2 carboxylate structure including acid forms salts esters zwitterions and tautomers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are niceritrol nicofuranose and acipimox 5 methylpyrazine 2 carboxylic acid 4 oxide .

Non limiting examples of bile acid sequestrants useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are cholestyramine a styrene divinylbenzene copolymer containing quaternary ammonium cationic groups capable of binding bile acids such as QUESTRAN or QUESTRAN LIGHT cholestyramine which are available from Bristol Myers Squibb colestipol a copolymer of diethylenetriamine and 1 chloro 2 3 epoxypropane such as COLESTID tablets which are available from Pharmacia colesevelam hydrochloride such as WelChol Tablets poly allylamine hydrochloride cross linked with epichlorohydrin and alkylated with 1 bromodecane and 6 bromohexyl trimethylammonium bromide which are available from Sankyo water soluble derivatives such as 3 3 ioene N cycloalkyl alkylamines and poliglusam insoluble quaternized polystyrenes saponins and mixtures thereof.

Non limiting examples of inorganic cholesterol sequestrants useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are bismuth salicylate plus montmorillonite clay aluminum hydroxide and calcium carbonate antacids.

Non limiting examples of AcylCoA Cholesterol O acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are avasimibe 2 4 6 tris 1 methylethyl phenyl acetyl sulfamic acid 2 6 bis 1 methylethyl phenyl ester formerly known as CI 1011 HL 004 lecimibide DuP 128 and CL 277082 N 2 4 difluorophenyl N 4 2 2 dimethylpropyl phenyl methyl N heptylurea and the compounds described in P. Chang et al. Current New and Future Treatments in Dyslipidaemia and Atherosclerosis 2000 July 60 1 55 93 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Non limiting examples of cholesteryl ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are those disclosed in PCT Patent Application No. WO 00 38721 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 147 090 6 958 346 6 924 313 6 906 082 6 861 561 6 803 388 6 794 396 6 787 570 6 753 346 6 723 752 6 723 753 6 710 089 6 699 898 6 696 472 6 696 435 6 683 113 5 519 001 5 512 548 6 410 022 6 426 365 6 448 295 6 387 929 6 683 099 6 677 382 6 677 380 6 677 379 6 677 375 6 677 353 6 677 341 6 605 624 6 586 433 6 451 830 6 451 823 6 462 092 6 458 849 6 458 803 6 455 519 6 583 183 6 562 976 6 555 113 6 544 974 6 521 607 6 489 366 6 482 862 6 479 552 6 476 075 6 476 057 and 6 897 317 each of which are incorporated herein by reference compounds described in Yan Xia et al. Substituted 1 3 5 Triazines As Cholesteral Ester Transfer Protein Inhibitors Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letters vol. 6 No. 7 1996 pp. 919 922 herein incorporated by reference natural products described in S. Coval et al. Wiedendiol A and B Cholesteryl Ester Transfer Protein Inhibitors From The Marine Sponge Xestosponga Wiedenmayeri Bioorganic Medicinal Chemistry Letter vol. 5 No. 6 pp. 605 610 1995 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Barrett et al. 188 7863 63 1996 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Kuo et al. 117 10629 34 1995 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Pietzonka et al. 6 1951 54 1996 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Lee et al. 49 693 96 1996 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described by Busch et al. 25 216 220 1990 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Morton and Zilversmit 35 836 47 1982 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Connolly et al. 223 42 47 1996 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in Bisgaier et al. Lipids 29 811 8 1994 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in EP 818448 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in JP 10287662 herein incorporated by reference the compounds described in PCT applications WO 98 35937 WO 9914174 WO 9839299 and WO 9914215 each of which is herein incorporated by reference the compounds of EP applications EP 796846 EP 801060 818448 and 818197 each of which is herein incorporated by reference probucol or derivatives thereof such as AGI 1067 and other derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 121 319 and 6 147 250 herein incorporated by reference low density lipoprotein LDL receptor activators such as HOE 402 an imidazolidinyl pyrimidine derivative that directly stimulates LDL receptor activity described in M. Huettinger et al. Hypolipidemic activity of HOE 402 is Mediated by Stimulation of the LDL Receptor Pathway Arterioscler. Thromb. 1993 13 1005 12 herein incorporated by reference 4 carboxyamino 2 substituted 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolines e.g. torcetrapib described in WO 00 017164 WO 00 017166 WO 00 140190 WO 00 213797 and WO 2005 033082 each of which is herein incorporated by reference . Torcetrapib can be combined with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin WO 00 213797 WO 2004 056358 WO 2004 056359 and WO2005 011634 .

A non limiting example of a fish oil containing Omega 3 fatty acids useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is 3 PUFA.

Non limiting examples of natural water soluble fibers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention are psyllium guar oat and pectin.

A non limiting example of a plant stanol and or fatty acid ester of plant stanols useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is the sitostanol ester used in BENECOL margarine.

A non limiting example of an anti oxidant useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention includes probucol.

Non limiting examples of PPAR agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include beclofibrate benzafibrate ciprofibrate clofibrate etofibrate fenofibrate and gemfibrozil.

Non limiting examples of lipoprotein synthesis inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include niacin or nicotinic acid.

Non limiting examples of 5HT serotonin transport inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include paroxetine fluoxetine fenfluramine fluvoxamine sertraline and imipramine.

Non limiting examples of NE norepinephrine transport inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include GW 320659 despiramine talsupram and nomifensine.

Non limiting examples of CBantagonists inverse agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include rimonabant SR 147778 Sanofi Aventis and the compounds described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 532 237 U.S. Pat. No. 4 973 587 U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 837 U.S. Pat. No. 5 081 122 U.S. Pat. No. 5 112 820 U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 736 U.S. Pat. No. 5 624 941 U.S. Pat. No. 6 028 084 WO 96 33159 WO 98 33765 WO 98 43636 WO 98 43635 WO 01 09120 WO 98 31227 WO 98 41519 WO 98 37061 WO 00 10967 WO 00 10968 WO 97 29079 WO 99 02499 WO 01 58869 WO 02 076949 and EP 658546 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of ghrelin antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in WO 01 87335 and WO 02 08250 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference . Ghrelin antagonists are also known as GHS growth hormone secretagogue receptor antagonists. The pharmaceutical combinations and methods of the present invention therefore comprehend the use GHS antagonists in place of ghrelin antagonists in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention .

Non limiting examples of Hantagonists inverse agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include thioperamide 3 1H imidazol 4 yl propyl N 4 pentenyl carbamate clobenpropit iodophenpropit imoproxifan and GT2394 Gliatech those described in WO 02 15905 herein incorporated by reference O 3 1H imidazol 4 yl propanol carbamates described in Kiec Kononowicz K. et al. Pharmazie 55 349 55 2000 herein incorporated by reference piperidine containing histamine H receptor antagonists described in Lazewska D. et al. Pharmazie 56 927 32 2001 herein incorporated by reference benzophenone derivatives and related compounds described in Sasse A. et al. Arch. Pharm. Weinheim 334 45 52 2001 herein incorporated by reference substituted N phenylcarbamates described in Reidemeister S. et al. Pharmazie 55 83 6 2000 herein incorporated by reference and proxifan derivatives described in Sasse A. et al. J. Med. Chem. 43 333543 2000 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of MCH1R melanin concentrating hormone 1 receptor antagonists and MCH2R melanin concentrating hormone 2 receptor agonists antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in WO 01 82925 WO 01 87834 WO 02 06245 WO 02 04433 WO 02 51809 and JP 13226269 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference and T 226296 Takeda .

Non limiting examples of NPY1 antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 001 836 WO 96 14307 WO 01 23387 WO 99 51600 WO 01 85690 WO 01 85098 WO 01 85173 and WO 01 89528 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference and BIBP3226 J 115814 BIBO 3304 LY 357897 CP 671906 and GI 264879A.

Non limiting examples of NPY5 antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 140 354 U.S. Pat. No. 6 191 160 U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 837 U.S. Pat. No. 6 313 298 U.S. Pat. No. 6 337 332 U.S. Pat. No. 6 329 395 U.S. Pat. No. 6 340 683 U.S. Pat. No. 6 326 375 U.S. Pat. No. 6 335 345 EP 01010691 EP 01044970 WO 97 19682 WO 97 20820 WO 97 20821 WO 97 20822 WO 97 20823 WO 98 27063 WO 00 64880 WO 00 68197 WO 00 69849 WO 01 09120 WO 01 85714 WO 01 85730 WO 01 07409 WO 01 02379 WO 01 02379 WO 01 23388 WO 01 23389 WO 01 44201 WO 01 62737 WO 01 62738 WO 01 09120 WO 02 22592 WO 0248152 WO 02 49648 WO 01 14376 WO 04 110375 WO 05 000217 and Norman et al. J. Med. Chem. 43 42884312 2000 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference and 152 804 GW 569180A GW 594884A GW 587081X GW 548118X FR226928 FR 240662 FR252384 1229U91 GI 264879A CGP71683A LY 377897 PD 160170 SR 120562A SR 120819A and JCF 104.

Non limiting examples of NPY2 agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include PYY3 36 as described in Batterham et al. Nature. 418 650 654 2003 NPY3 36 and other Y2 agonists such as N acetyl Leu 28 31 NPY 24 36 White Smith and Potter Neuropeptides 33 526 33 1999 TASP V Malis et al. Br. J. Pharmacol. 126 989 96 1999 cyclo 28 32 Ac Lys28 Glu32 25 36 pNPY Cabrele and Beck Sickinger J Pept Sci. 6 97 122 2000 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of NPY4 agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include pancreatic peptide PP as described in Batterham et al. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 88 3989 3992 2003 and other Y4 agonists such as 1229U91 Raposinho et al. Neuroendocrinology. 71 2 7 2000 both references are herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of mGluR5 Metabotropic glutamate subtype 5 receptor antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include 2 methyl 6 phenylethynyl pyridine MPEP and 3 2 methyl 1 3 thiazol 4 yl ethynyl pyridine MTEP and those compounds described in Anderson J. et al. J Eur J. Pharmacol. Jul. 18 2003 473 1 35 40 Cosford N. et al. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. Feb. 10 2003 13 3 351 4 and Anderson J. et al. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. December 2002 303 3 1044 51 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of leptins leptin derivatives and leptin agonists modulators useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include recombinant human leptin PEG OB Hoffman La Roche and recombinant methionyl human leptin Amgen . Leptin derivatives e.g. truncated forms of leptin useful in the present invention include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 524 U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 523 U.S. Pat. No. 5 552 522 U.S. Pat. No. 5 521 283 WO 96 23513 WO 96 23514 WO 96 23515 WO 96 23516 WO 96 23517 WO 96 23518 WO 96 23519 and WO 96 23520 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of opioid antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include nalmefene Revex 3 methoxynaltrexone naloxone and naltrexone as well as opioid antagonists described in WO 00 21509 herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of orexin receptor antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include SB 334867 A as well as those described in WO 01 96302 WO 01 68609 WO 02 51232 and WO 02 51838 each of the preceding references is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of CNTF specific ciliary neurotrophic factors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include GI 181771 Glaxo SmithKline SR146131 Sanofi Aventis butabindide PD170 292 PD 149164 Pfizer .

Non limiting examples of CNTF derivatives and CNTF agonists modulators useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include axokine Regeneron and those described in WO 94 09134 WO 98 22128 and WO 99 43813 each of which is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of 5HT2c agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include BVT933 DPCA37215 WAY161503 and R 1065 as well as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 914 250 WO 02 36596 WO 02 48124 WO 02 10169 WO 01 66548 WO 02 44152 WO 02 51844 WO 02 40456 and WO 02 40457 each of which is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of Mc4r agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include CHIR86036 Chiron ME 10142 and ME 10145 Melacure as well as those described in WO 01 991752 WO 01 74844 WO 02 12166 WO 02 11715 and WO 02 12178 each of which is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of monoamine reuptake inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include sibutramine Meridia Reductil as well as those described in WO 01 27068 WO 01 62341 U.S. Pat. No. 4 746 680 U.S. Pat. No. 4 806 570 U.S. Pat. No. 5 436 272 and US 2002 0006964 each of which is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of serotonin reuptake inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include dexfenfluramine fluoxetine and those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 365 633 WO 01 27060 and WO 01 162341 each of which is herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of GLP 1 agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include exendin 3 and exendin 4.

A non limiting example of an acyl estrogen useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention includes oleoyl estrone.

Non limiting examples of 11 HSD 1 inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in WO 03 065983 and WO 03 104207 both of which are herein incorporated by reference .

A non limiting example of a lipase inhibitor useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include orlistat.

Anti diabetic agents useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include sulfonylureas meglitinides amylase inhibitors glucoside hydrolase inhibitors PPAR agonists PPAR agonists biguanides PTP 1B inhibitors DP IV inhibitors insulin secreatagogues fatty acid oxidation inhibitors A2 antagonists c jun amino terminal kinase inhibitors insulin insulin mimetics glycogen phosphorylase inhibitors VPAC2 receptor agonists glucokinase activators and non thiazolidinedione PPAR ligands. Non limiting examples of sulfonylureas useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include acetohexamide chlorpropamide diabinese glibenclamide glipizide glyburide glimepiride gliclazide glipentide gliquidone glisolamide tolazamide and tolbutamide.

Non limiting examples of meglitinides useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include repaglinide and nateglinide.

Non limiting examples of amylase inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include tendamistat trestatin and AI 3688.

Non limiting examples of glucoside hydrolase inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include acarbose adipose camiglibose emiglitate miglitol voglibose pradimicin Q salbostatin CDK 711 MDL 25 637 MDL 73 945 and MOR 14.

Non limiting examples of PPAR agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include balaglitazone ciglitazone darglitazone englitazone isaglitazone MCC 555 pioglitazone rosiglitazone troglitazone tesaglitazar netoglitazone GW 409544 GW 501516 CLX 0921 5 BTZD GW 0207 LG 100641 LY 300512 LY 519818 R483 Roche and T131 Tularik .

Non limiting examples of PPAR agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include CLX 0940 GW 1536 GW 1929 GW 2433 KRP 297 L 796449 LR 90 MK 0767 and SB 219994.

Non limiting examples of biguanides useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include buformin metformin and phenformin.

Non limiting examples of PTP 1B inhibitors protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include A 401 674 KR 61639 OC 060062 OC 83839 OC 297962 MC52445 and MC52453.

Non limiting examples of DP IV inhibitors dipeptidyl peptidase IVi inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include isoleucine thiazolidide NVP DPP728 P32 98 LAF 237 TSL 225 valine pyrrolidide TMC 2A 2B 2C CD 26 inhibitors and SDZ 274 444.

Non limiting examples of insulin secreatagogues useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include linogliride and A 4166.

Non limiting examples of fatty acid oxidation inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include clomoxir and etomoxir.

Non limiting examples of A2 antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include midaglizole isaglidole deriglidole idazoxan earoxan and fluparoxan.

Non limiting examples of insulin mimetics useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include biota LP 100 novarapid insulin detemir insulin lispro insulin glargine insulin zinc suspension lente and ultralente Lys Pro insulin GLP 1 73 7 insulintropin and GLP 1 7 36 NH .

Non limiting examples of glycogen phosphorylase inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include CP 368 296 CP 316 819 and BAYR3401.

Non limiting examples of non thiazolidinedione PPAR ligands useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include JT 501 and farglitazar GW 2570 GI 262579 .

Anti hypertensive agents useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include diuretics adrendergic blockers adrenergic blockers aldosterone inhibitors alpha 1 blockers calcium channel blockers angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors neutral endopeptidase inhibitors angiotensin II receptor antagonists endothelin antagonists vasodilators alpha 2a agonists and adrenergic blockers.

Non limiting examples of diuretics useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include chlorthalidone chlorthiazide dichlorophenamide hydroflumethiazide indapamide hydrochlorothiazide bumetanide ethacrynic acid furosemide torsemide amiloride triamterene spironolactone and epirenone.

Non limiting examples of adrendergic blockers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bevantolol bisoprolol bopindolol carteolol carvedilol celiprolol esmolol indenolol metaprolol nadolol nebivolol penbutolol pindolol propanolol sotalol tertatolol tilisolol and timolol.

Non limiting examples of alpha 1 blockers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include terazosin urapidil prazosin bunazosin trimazosin doxazosin naftopidil indoramin WHIP 164 and XEN010.

Non limiting examples of calcium channel blockers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include amlodipine aranidipine azelnidipine barnidipine benidipine bepridil cinaldipine clevidipine diltiazem efonidipine felodipine gallopamil isradipine lacidipine lemildipine lercanidipine nicardipine nifedipine nilvadipine nimodepine nisoldipine nitrendipine manidipine pranidipine and verapamil.

Non limiting examples of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include alacepril benazepril ceronapril captopril cilazapril delapril enalapril fosinopril imidapril losinopril moveltopril moexipril quinapril quinaprilat ramipril perindopril peridropril quanipril spirapril temocapril trandolapril and zofenopril.

Non limiting examples of neutral endopeptidase inhibitors useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include omapatrilat cadoxatril ecadotril fosidotril sampatrilat AVE7688 and ER4030.

Non limiting examples of angiotensin II receptor antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include candesartan eprosartan irbesartan losartan pratosartan tasosartan telisartan valsartan EXP 3137 FI6828K RNH6270 losartan monopotassium and losartan potassium hydrochlorothiazide.

Non limiting examples of endothelin antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include tezosentan A308165 and YM62899.

Non limiting examples of vasodilators useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include hydralazine apresoline clonidine catapres minoxidil loniten and nicotinyl alcohol roniacol .

Non limiting examples of alpha 2a agonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include lofexidine tiamenidine moxonidine rilmenidine and guanobenz.

Non limiting examples of adrenergic blockers useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include nipradilol arotinolol and amosulalol.

DP receptor antagonists useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include those described in US 2004 0229844 herein incorporated by reference .

Non limiting examples of additional agents that can be combined with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include aspirin Niaspan Norvsac amlodipine NSAIDS agents e.g. Celecoxib Celebrex Diclofenac Cataflam Voltaren Arthrotec Diflunisal Dolobid Etodolac Lodine Fenoprofen Nalfon Flurbirofen Ansaid Ibuprofen Motrin ADVIL NUPRIN Tab Profen Vicoprofen Combunox Indornethacin Indocin Indo Lemmon Indornethagan Ketoprofen Oruvail Ketorolac Toradol Mefenamic acid Ponstel commercially available from First Horizon Pharmaceutical flufenamic acid N 3 trifluoromethylphenyl anthranilic acid Meloxicam Mobic Naburnetone Relafen Naproxen Naprosyn ALEVE Anaprox Naprelan Naprapac Oxaprozin Daypro Piroxicam Feldene Sulindac Clinoril and Tolmetin Tolectin antihypertensive agents Prazosin Propranolol nadolol timolol metoprolol pindolol labetalol guanethidine reserpine clonidine methyldopa guanabenz captopril enalapril lisinopril losartan verapamil diltiazem nifedipine hydrochlorothiazide chlorothalidone furosemide triamterene hydralazine minoxidil PGE2 receptor antagonists e.g. EP2 and EP4 .

Non limiting examples of additional agents that can be combined with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention include homocysteinase orphan GPCR modulator HRE based gene therapy gene therapy dual PPAR agonists recombinant FGF 1 VRI 1 CRx 150 VEGF 114 based therapy CT 500 regadenosan CK 1827452 JAK2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors adipose derived regenerative cells STARBURST dendrimer based MRI contrast agents TBC 11299 HEMOxygenation heparin GO EPO IDN 6734 ISIS 301012 HIF alpha gene therapy 2b adrenoceptor antagonists KI 0002 adenosine modulators Ki 23095 PR 5 Melacure L 364373 histone deacetylase inhibitors adenylate cyclase inhibitors E.g. HI 30435 from Millennium MITO 0139 from MitoKor NV 04 from Novogen M 118 Momenta hypoxia response element PI 99 from progen NEXVAS from Resverlogix CS 207 from Shenzhen Chipscreen Biosciences estrogen regulated gene therapy SLV 327 from SolvaY TNX 832 from Sunol Molecular Corp SLx 2101 from Surface Logix recombinant human annexin from SurroMed Chymase inhibitors e.g. from Toa Eiyo VM 202 from ViroMed liver x receptor modulators e.g. from Exelixis Bristol Myers Squibb Heberkinasa from Y. M. Biosciences atorvastatin amlodipine combination AGN 195795 Allergan angiotensisn 1 7 agonists e.g. from Arena Toprol XL hydrochlorothiazide from AstraZeneca Teczem Aventis sGC stimulators calcium channel blockers CYT 006 AngQb CytosBiotechnology renin inhibitors e.g. from Roche Speedel Coxagen from geneRx Inc MC 4262 from Medicure VNP 489 from Novartis felodipine from Pierre Fabre SA 2 methoxyestradiol from PR Pharmaceuticals 1 adrenoreceptor antagonists e.g. from Recordati SpA lercanidipine enalapril combination from Recordati SpA . NO donors 9 e.g. from Renopharm CR 3834 from Rottapharm Gr iloprost from Schering AG SPP 1100 from The Speedel Group angiotensinogen MC 4232 from Medicure ACE inhibitor from Servier LCP Feno Stat. from LifeCycle Pharma APA 01 statin combination from Phosphagenics Ltd KH 01502 from Kos KS 01019 from Kos niacin lovastatin combination from Kos Merck KGaA MK 0524 extended release niacin simvastatin combination from Merck MK 0524 extended release combination from Merck Pro NAD from Niadyne Inc beraprost perindopril erbumine barnidipine irbesartan valsartan valsartan HCTZ combination meclinertant TAK 536 SR 121463 irbesatran HCTZ combination darusentan PMD 2850 CR 2991 SLV 306 bisoprolol fumarate HCTZ combination NV 04 FG 3019 TRC 4149 AVE 7688 PV 903 diltiazem QC BT16 cardiotherpay from Cytopia treprostinil sodium enalapril diltiazem combination eprosartan mesylate HCTZ combination renin inhibitor from Vitae LG 105 inhibitors from Lexicon LG 844 inhibitors from Lexicon NO enhancing PDE inhibitors hyaluronidase propranolol hydrochloride BIO 236 RWJ 351647 metoprolol YM 222546 bLN 5 olmesartan azelnidipine combination from Sanyo moxonidine HCTZ combination NS 304 BIO 123 aldosterone antagonists clonidine BIO 003 and CR 3834.

In addition the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention can also be used in combination with two or more therapeutic agents. A non limiting example of two or more therapeutic agents useful in combination with the nicotinic acid receptor agonists of the present invention is the combination of a compound of the present invention with VYTORIN a combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe .

The invention disclosed herein is exemplified by the following preparations and examples which should not be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure. Alternative mechanistic pathways and analogous structures will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Methyl propionylacetate 12.5 g 96.1 mmol 1.23 eq. and barbituric acid 10 g 78.1 mmol 1 eq. were mixed together and without solvent the mixture was heated to 195 C. in air for 2 hr. at which time all of the liquids had evaporated. The solid was washed with boiling distilled water twice. The remaining solid was recrystallized with 2 methoxyethanol water to give 4 g of Example 1 as a yellow solid 20 yield .

Example 2 was prepared by a method analogous to the method used to prepare Example 1 except that methyl acetonylacetate was used instead of methyl propionylacetate.

Example 3 was prepared by a method analogous to the method used to prepare Example 1 except that methyl butanoylacetate was used instead of methyl propionylacetate.

Example 4 was prepared by a method analogous to the method used to prepare Example 1 except that ethyl isobutylacetate was used instead of methyl propionylacetate and Example 4 was purified by HPLC 5 acetonitrile in water to 95 acetonitrile in 10 min .

Example 1 5 g 24.04 mmol 1 eq POCl 36.86 g 240 mmol 10 eq. and pyridine 0.95 g 12 mmol 0.5 eq were mixed and heated to 115 C. for 8 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed and the brownish residue was purified using flash chromatography with 20 EtOAc hexane as the eluting solvent. The desired product 4 g was obtained in 68 yield.

Compound 1 0.15 g 0.61 mmol 1 eq. and aniline 0.06 g 0.64 mmol 1.05 eq were mixed in 3 mL of anhydrous THF and stirred for 12 hours. Solvent was removed and the residue was purified by prep TLC with 25 EtOAc hexane as the eluting solvent to give desired product as first fraction 7 mg 4 yield .

Example 7 was prepared using the method used to prepare Example 6 except that Example 7 was obtained as the second fraction by prep TLC 8 mg 4 yield .

Example 8 was prepared using a method analogous to the method used to prepare Example 1 except that diethyl 1 3 acetonedicarboxylate was used instead of methyl propionylacetate.

A mixture of 3 3 3 trifluoropropionic acid 16 g 125 mmol thionyl chloride 29.75 g 250 mmol and DMF 0.5 mL was heated to 70 C. for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was distilled under reduced pressure to give 3 3 3 trifluoropropionyl chloride 11.5 g 72 .

Into a solution of Meldrum s acid 2 2 dimethyl 4 6 dioxo 1 3 dioxane 9 g 62 mmol and pyridine 9.8 g 68 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 10 mL which cooled to 0 C. was added 3 3 3 trifluoropropionyl chloride 10 g 68 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred under Nat 0 C. for 1 hour then at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting paste was mixed with MeOH 20 mL and heated to 80 C. for 5 hours. The solvent was removed and the resulting mixture was distilled under reduced pressure to give Compound 9a 6.2 g 54 .

A mixture of Compound 9a 2.2 g 12 mmol and barbituric acid was heated to 180 C. for 1 hour to provide a black solid. After cooling to room temperature the black solid was dissolved into hot water 70 mL . The resulting mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 4 50 mL . The organic solution was dried NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC eluting with formic acid 0.1 acetonitrile to give Example 9 0.17 g 5 . Electrospray MS M 1 263.

A mixture of 4 6 dihydroxy 2 mercapto pyrimidine 20.0 g 138.7 mmol and methyl propionylacetate 21.8 mL 173.4 mmol was heated at 165 C. until the ester was completely reacted. The reaction mixture was cooled down and poured into water 75 mL and then filtered through a sintered funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 20 mL and dried under vacuum to yield Compound 10a 11.6 g 37 .

MeI 2.23 mL 35.72 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 4.0 g 17.86 mmol in DMF 40 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then poured into water 250 mL and filtered through a sintered funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 50 mL and dried under vacuum to give Compound 10b 4.1 g 96 .

m CPBA 3.1 g 70 12.6 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10b 2.0 g 8.4 mmol in CHCl 150 mL at room temperature. The solvent was removed from the suspension after 3 hours and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting first with hexane EtOAc v v 1 1 then CHCl MeOH v v 2 1 to give Example 10 2.0 g 94 . Electrospray MS M 1 255.1.

Example 10 0.35 g 1.37 mmol in MeOH 40 mL was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with CHCl MeOH v v 50 1 to give Example 11 0.23 g 76 . Electrospray MS M 1 223.1.

BnOH 2.46 mL 23.76 mmol was added to a solution of Example 10 0.404 g 1.58 mmol and NEt 0.22 mL 1.58 mmol in CHCN 12.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature HOAc 0.09 mL 1.58 mmol was added and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with CHCl MeOH v v 50 1 to give Example 12 0.20 g 42 . Electrospray MS M 1 299.1.

Cyclopropyl methyl bromide 1.30 mL 13.4 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 0.5 g 2.24 mmol in DMF 5.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 85 C. for two days. The reaction mixture was cooled down and poured into water 75 mL and then filtered through a sintered funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 20 mL and dried under vacuum to give Compound 13a 0.55 g 88 .

m CPBA 0.33 g 70 1.35 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 13a 0.25 g 0.9 mmol in CHCl 30 mL at room temperature. Solvent was removed after 3 hours and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with EtOAc CHCl MeOH v v 4 1 2 to give Example 13 0.15 g 57 . Electrospray MS M 1 295.1.

A mixture of Example 10 0.205 g 0.804 mmol and NHNHCOMe 0.145 g 1.608 mmol in MeCN 4.0 mL was heated at reflux for 3 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was washed with water 3 25 mL with filtration. The solid was dried under vacuum to give Example 14 0.2 g 89 . Electrospray MS M 1 281.1.

Allyl bromide 1.74 mL 20.1 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 1.5 g 6.7 mmol in DMF 15.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 45 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled down and poured into water 200 mL and then filtered through a sintered funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 40 mL and dried under vacuum to give Example 15 1.55 g 92 . Electrospray MS M 1 265.1.

Cyclopropyl carbinol 0.79 mL 9.8 mmol was added to a solution of Example 10 0.050 g 0.196 mmol in CHCN 0.8 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane EtOAc v v 1 1 to give Example 16 0.027 g 52 . Electrospray MS M 1 263.1.

A mixture of Example 10 0.10 g 0.392 mmol and t BuSH 0.66 mL 5.88 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2.0 mL was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane EtOAc v v 1 1 to give Compound 17a 0.045 g 41 .

m CPBA 0.049 g 70 0.20 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 17a 0.040 g 0.143 mmol in CHCl 2.5 mL at room temperature. Solvent was removed after 3 hours and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting first with hexane EtOAc v v 1 1 then with CHCl MeOH v v 5 1 to give Example 17 0.030 g 71 . Electrospray MS M 1 297.1.

Etl 2.1 g 13.4 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 1.5 g 6.7 mmol in DMF 20 mL . After stirring at room temperature overnight the reaction mixture was poured into water 50 mL and filtered through a Buchner funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 50 mL and dried under vacuum to give Compound 18a 1.3 g 76 .

m CPBA 74 mg 70 3 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 18a 0.5 g 2 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature 3 hours the solvent was removed and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with AcOH MeOH CHCl v v v 0.1 4.9 95 to give Example 18 0.4 g 74 . Electrospray MS M 1 269.

Benzyl bromide 1.54 g 9 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 1 g 4.5 mmol in DMF 20 mL . After stirring at room temperature overnight the reaction mixture was poured into water 50 mL and filtered through a Buchner funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 50 mL and dried under vacuum to give Compound 19a 1.3 g 92 .

m CPBA 72 mg 70 3 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 19a 0.5 g 2 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at room temperature. After stirring at room temperature 3 hours the solvent was removed and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with AcOH MeOH CHCl v v v 0.1 2.9 97 to give Example 19 0.5 g 76 . Electrospray MS M 1 331.

 1 Bromoethyl benzene 3.4 g 18 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 1 g 4.5 mmol in DMF 20.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for one day. The reaction mixture was cooled down and poured into water 50 mL and then filtered through a Buchner funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 20 mL and dried under vacuum to Compound 20a 1.3 g 87 . Electrospray MS M 1 329.

m CPBA 0.3 g 70 1.2 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 20a 0.33 g 1 mmol in CHCl 30 mL at room temperature. Solvent was removed after 3 hours and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with 5 EtOH in EtOAc hexanes v v 1 1 to give Example 20 0.1 g 50 . Electrospray MS M 1 345.

2 Iodopropane 1.53 g 9 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 10a 1 g 4.5 mmol in DMF 20 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. for one day. The reaction mixture was cooled down and poured into water 50 mL and then filtered through a Buchner funnel. The solid residue was washed with water 2 20 mL and dried under vacuum to give Compound 21a 1.05 g 88 .

m CPBA 0.74 g 70 3 mmol was added to a suspension of Compound 21a 0.53 g 2 mmol in CHCl 30 mL at room temperature. Solvent was removed after 3 hours the crude product was purified using a silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with 0.1 AcOH in MeOH CHCl v v 2 98 to give Example 21 0.45 g 80 . Electrospray MS M 1 283.

KCO 36.7 mg 0.266 mmol was added to a mixture of Example 11 29.6 mg 0.133 mmol and Etl 0.064 mL 0.8 mmol in DMF 1.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction was stirred over night before it was diluted with by the addition of EtOAc 50 mL and water 10 mL . The organic phase was washed with water 3 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried over MgSO. After filtration and concentration the crude product was purified using preparative TLC with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 7 3 1 as eluent to give Example 22 7.0 mg 21 and Example 23 20 mg 60 . Electrospray MS M 1 251.1.

Example 10 0.216 g 0.847 mmol in allyl alcohol 3.0 mL was heated at reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with EtOAc MeOH v v 5 1 to give Compound 24a 0.1 g 48 .

NBS 36 mg 0.202 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 24a 0.040 g 0.161 mmol in CHCl 2.0 mL at room temperature. Solvent was removed over 1 hour and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane EA v v 1 1 to give Example 24 0.025 g 48 . Electrospray MS M 1 327.1.

Example 1 0.5 g 2.4 mmol was taken up in CHCN 10 mL . Triethylamine 0.33 mL 2.4 mmol was added to the suspension followed by cyclopropyl methyl bromide 0.26 mL 2.64 mmol and NaI 0.36 g 2.4 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the solvent was evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by crystallization from EtOAc hexanes to give Example 25 0.25 g 40 .

Example 1 0.1 g 0.48 mmol was taken up in CHCN 3.0 mL . Triethylamine 0.067 mL 0.48 mmol was added to the suspension followed by methyl bromoacetate 0.046 mL 0.48 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir overnight at room temperature. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Example 26 0.06 g 45 .

Example 1 1.0 g 4.8 mmol was taken up in CHCN 20 mL . Triethylamine 0.67 mL 4.8 mmol was added to the suspension followed by bromomethyl methyl ether 0.44 mL 4.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 10 min after which it was concentrated. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 27a 0.6 g 50 .

Sodium hydride 0.058 g 1.46 mmol was added to a mixture of Compound 27a 0.335 g 1.33 mmol in 8 mL DMF at 0 C. followed by cyclopropyl methyl bromide 0.142 mL 1.46 mmol . The suspension was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight before being diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 27b 0.175 g 43 .

Boron tribromide 2.85 mL 2.85 mmol 1.0 M solution in DCM was added to a solution of Compound 27b 0.175 g 0.57 mmol in CHCl 8.0 mL at 78 C. The reaction was allowed to stir for 2 h before being quenched with water 5.0 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Example 27 0.1 g 67 .

Sodium hydride 0.016 g 0.396 mmol was added to a mixture of Compound 27a 0.100 g 0.396 mmol in 2 mL DMF at 0 C. followed by methyl bromoacetate 0.041 mL 0.44 mmol . The suspension was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight before being diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 28a 0.07 g 54 .

Boron tribromide 1.1 mL 1.1 mmol 1.0 M solution in DCM was added to a solution of Compound 28a 0.07 g 0.22 mmol in CHCl 3.0 mL at 78 C. The reaction was allowed to stir for 2 h before being quenched with water 5.0 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Example 28 0.02 g 33 .

Sodium hydride 0.080 g 1.98 mmol was added to a mixture of Compound 27a 0.500 g 1.98 mmol in 8 mL DMF at 0 C. followed by 2 bromoacetophenone 0.434 g 1.98 mmol . The suspension was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight before being diluted with EtOAc 5 mL and quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 29a 0.37 g 50 .

Boron tribromide 4.7 mL 4.7 mmol 1.0 M solution in DCM was added to a solution of Compound 29a 0.350 g 0.95 mmol in CHCl 10.0 mL at 78 C. The reaction was allowed to stir for 2 h before being quenched with water 5.0 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 15 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Example 29 0.175 g 56 .

To a CHClsolution of cyclopentylamine was added trimethylsilyl isocyanate. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight. To this was added 200 ml of CHOH and the mixture was stirred for another 2 hrs. The reaction mixture was concentrated and was titrated using diethyl ether to give an off white precipitate. The precipitate was filtered through a Buchner funnel to give cyclopentyl urea Compound 30a as a white crystalline solid compound 13.0 g 86 . To this urea Compound 30a 5.0 g 38.7 mmol in acetic acid 11 mL was added malonic acid 4.0 g 38.7 mmol followed by acetic anhydride 18 mL and the reaction was stirred at 70 C. for 12 hrs. The reaction mixture was concentrated cooled in an ice bath and titrated using 4 1 EtO EtOAc. A pale yellow crystalline solid precipitated out. The precipitate was filtered and washed 2 3 times using cold diethyl ether to obtain a pale yellow solid Compound 30b 2.5 g 33 .

Compound 30b 0.75 g 1.0 equiv. 3.82 mmol was condensed with methyl propionyl acetate 0.48 mL 3.82 mmol in the presence of sulfamic acid and heated to 140 C. for 6 hrs forming a dark brown solid. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc washed with HO dried using NaSOand concentrated to give a crude mixture. Prep TLC purification of the crude mixture in 95 5 CHCl CHOH yielded both the Nand Nisomers Example 30 LCMS M 1 277.1 and Example 31 LCMS M 1 . 277.1

To Example 1 0.456 g 2.2 mmol in MeOH HO 1 1 was added allyl bromide followed by LiOH and the reaction mixture was heated to 82 C. for 8 hours. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC which indicated presence of some starting material. The reaction mixture was then heated for another 6 hours. An orange red precipitate was produced which was filtered from the solution using diethyl ether. The filtrate was purified using prep TLC 95 5 CHCl CHOH to give Example 44 LCMS M 1 . 249.0

The following Examples 45 47 51 61 64 66 67 69 79 were prepared by a procedure similar to that used for the preparation of Example 12 using Example 10 and the appropriate corresponding alcohol.

DIAD 0.488 mL 2.52 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of Compound 10b 0.5 g 2.10 mmol BnOH 0.261 mL 2.52 mmol and PPh 0.661 g 2.52 mmol in THF 6.0 mL at room temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 5 hours before it was worked up by silica gel flash column chromatography using a solid sample loading method eluting with hexane EtOAc v v 5 1 to give Compound 48a 0.25 g 36 .

m CPBA 0.384 g 1.55 mmol 60 70 was added at room temperature to a solution of Compound 48a 0.17 g 0.518 mmol in CHCl 5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 hours before it was quenched with addition of MeS 76 uL 1.55 mmol . The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc and washed with NaHCOsolution. The organic phase was washed with water brine and dried NaSO . Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 7 3 2 to give Compound 48b 0.15 g 80 .

NaCN 14.0 mg 0.286 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 48b 85.8 mg 0.238 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours before it was worked up by dilution with EtOAc and water. The organic phase was washed with water 2 brine and dried MgSO . Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 5 1 1 to give Compound 48c 37 mg 50 .

A solution of Compound 48c 10 mg 0.0326 mmol in 4.0 M HCl in dioxane 0.7 mL and MeOH 0.7 mL in a sealed tube was heated at 70 C. for 7 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give crude product. The crude product was purified with preparative thin layer silica gel chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl MeOH v v v 6 4 1 to give Example 48 5 mg 61 . Electrospray MS M 1 251.1.

 R Phenethanol 0.24 mL 2.0 mmol was added dropwise to a suspension of NaH 87.4 mg 2.0 mmol 55 in mineral oil in THF 3.0 mL at room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 2 hours until the solution was clear. The alkoxide thus formed was then added dropwise to a solution of the Compound 10 0.27 g 1.0 mmol in DMF 3.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours before it was quenched by the addition of HOAc 0.11 mL 2.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was taken up in EtOAc CHCl 8 2 washed with diluted HCl 0.1 M water and brine then dried MgSO . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 7 3 2 to give Compound 49 0.25 g 80 . Electrospray MS M 1 313.1.

Example 50 was prepared by a procedure similar to that used to prepare Example 29 using Compound 27a and the appropriate corresponding bromide. Electrospray MS M 1 345.1.

Example 52 was prepared by a procedure similar to that used to prepare Example 49 using Example 10 and S phenethanol. Electrospray MS M 1 313.1.

Example 53 prepared by a procedure similar to that used in Step A of the preparation of Example 29 using Compound 27a and the appropriate corresponding bromide. Electrospray MS M 1 439.1.

Example 29 0.05 g 0.153 mmol was taken up in ethanol 3.0 mL . Methoxylamine hydrochloride 0.051 g 0.61 mmol was added to the mixture followed by sodium acetate 0.038 g 0.46 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. overnight. After being cooled to room temperature the solvent was removed under reduced pressure diluted with CHCl 5 mL and water 5 mL . The product was extracted from CHCl 2 5 mL dried over MgSO concentrated. The crude product was dissolved in minimum CHCl diluted with hexanes and filtered to give Example 54. Electrospray MS M 1 356.1.

Di t butyl diazodicarboxylate 2.32 g 10.08 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 10b 2.0 g 8.4 mmol 4 methoxybenzyl alcohol 1.39 g 10.08 mmol and PPh 2.64 g 10.08 mmol in THF 20.0 mL at room temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 4 hours before it was worked up by direct silica gel flash column chromatography using a solid sample loading method eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 9 1 1 to give Compound 55a 1.6 g 53 .

M CPBA 0.47 g 1.92 mmol 60 70 was added at room temperature to a solution of Compound 55a 0.287 g 0.80 mmol in CHCl 8 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 hours before it was quenched by the addition of MeS 124 L 1.92 mmol . The mixture was then diluted with EtOAc and washed with NaHCOsolution. The organic phase was washed with water brine and dried NaSO . Solvent was removed under reduced pressure crude product was purified with silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 7 3 2 to give Example 55 0.15 g 80 . Electrospray MS M 1 391.1.

Cyclobutylamine 0.14 g 2 mmol was added to a suspension of Example 10 0.25 g 1 mmol in CHCN 15 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hours. Solvent was removed and the crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with 10 NHOH in MeOH CHCl v v 3 97 to give Example 56 0.045 g 17 . Electrospray MS M 1 262.1

A mixture of Compound 27a 2 g 7.9 mmol in DMF 100 mL t butyl bromoacetate 1.7 g 8.7 mmol and diisopropyl ethyl amine 1.1 g 8.7 mmol was stirred at 40 C. for 4 hours then at room temperature for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was mixed with water 200 mL and then extracted with ethyl acetate 100 mL 3 . The organic solution was dried NaSO and concentrated. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with MeOH CHCl v v 2 98 to give Compound 57a 1.8 g 62 . Electrospray MS M 1 367.2.

A mixture of Compound 57a 0.95 g 2.6 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 1.5 g 13 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. Removal of solvent and excess trifluoroacetic acid gave Example 57 0.8 g 100 . Electrospray MS M 1 311.2

To a mixture of mono cyclobutylbarbituric acid 300 mg 1.6 mmol and 2 Methyl 3 oxo pentanoic acid ethyl ester 1.041 g 6.59 mmol was added sulfamic acid 77 mg 0.8 mmol . The mixture was heated at 140 145 C. for 48 h. The residue was loaded onto preparative silica gel plates and eluted with 5 MeOH CHClto afford Example 58 42 mg 9 . LCMS M 1 277.1

EXAMPLE 59 was prepared using a two step procedure similar to that used for the preparation of Example 29 using Compound 27a and the appropriate corresponding bromide. Electrospray MS M 1 252.1.

Sodium hydride 0.035 g 0.869 mmol was added to a mixture of Compound 27a 0.200 g 0.79 mmol in 3 mL DMF at 0 C. followed by 2 methoxyphenacyl bromide 0.2 g 0.87 mmol . The suspension was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight before being diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and quenched by the addition of water 5 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 60a.

Boron tribromide 1.3 mL 1.31 mmol 1.0 M solution in DCM was added to a solution of Compound 60a 0.105 g 0.262 mmol in CHCl 5.0 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 2 h before being quenched with water 5.0 mL . The reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 5 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over MgSO and concentrated to give the crude product. The crude mixture was purified by column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes 2 3 v v to yield Compound 60. Electrospray MS M 1 343.1.

KCO 64.7 mg 0.47 mmol was added to a mixture of Example 12 70 mg 0.235 mmol and cyclopropyl methyl bromide 0.068 mL 0.705 mmol in DMF 2.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight before it was diluted by the addition of EtOAc 50 mL and water 10 mL . The organic phase was washed with water 3 15 mL brine 15 mL and dried over MgSO. After filtration and concentration the crude product was purified using preparative TLC with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 7 3 1 as eluent to give Compound 65a 26 mg 31 .

Compound 65a 26 mg 0.074 mmol in EtOH 5.0 mL was treated at room temperature with Pd C 7.8 mg 10 wt and was hydrogenated with a Hballoon for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was filtered through a short pad of Celite and the residue was washed with EtOH 15 mL . Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified using preparative TLC with hexane CHCl MeOH v v v 3 7 1 as eluent to give Example 65 6 mg 30 . Electrospray MS M 1 263.1.

The mixture of Example 57 0.1 g 0.32 mmol in CHCl 5 mL piperidine 0.027 g 0.32 mmol HATU 0.24 g 0.64 mmol and triethylamine 0 098 g 0.96 mmol was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was mixed with water 20 mL and then extracted with CHCl 10 mL 2 . The organic solution was dried NaSO and concentrated. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with EtOAc hexanes v v 1 1 to give Compound 68a 0.065 g 54 . Electrospray MS M 1 378.2.

1M BBrsolution in CHCl 0.75 mL 0.75 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 68a 0.056 g 0.15 mmol at 78 C. After the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 2 hours water 5 mL was added. The organic solution was dried NaSO and concentrated. The crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with 10 NHOH in MeOH CHCl v v 3 97 to give Example 68 0.01 g 20 . Electrospray MS M 1 334.2.

Compound 27a 0.1 g 0.33 mmol was taken up in CHClat room temperature. NBS was then added and the reaction was stirred for 4 hours. After no progress in the reaction was observed a mixture of NBS 0.061 g 0.34 mmol in chloroform 4 mL was added. The reaction mixture was heated for 12 hrs at 70 C. Both the TLC 30 70 EtOAc Hexane and mass spectrogram indicated that the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with CHCland washed with HO. The organic phase was dried with NaSOand solvent was removed to give the crude product. Preparative silica gel chromatography purification in EtOAc Hexane v v 30 70 yielded Compound 80a 0.075 g 60 .

Compound 80a 0.070 g 0.18 mmol was taken up in CHCland the mixture was cooled to 78 C. 1M BBr 0.909 mL 0.9 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 4 hours. Upon completion of the reaction the mixture was diluted with CHCl washed with HO dried with NaSO and then solvent was removed to give crude product. The crude product was purified by preparative silica gel chromatography using 30 70 EtOAc Hexane to give Example 80. Electrospray MS M 1 341.2.

To a mixture of Example 5 84 mg 0.34 mmol and acetone oxime 27.5 mg 0.37 mmol was added DIEA 0.09 ml 0.52 mmol and the mixture was stirred for 3 days. The mixture was concentrated and was subjected to silica gel column chromatography to give Example 81 30 mg 31 . LCMS M 1 282.1

Isopropenyl magnesium bromide 0.95 mL 0.475 mmol 0.5 M in THF was added dropwise to a solution of Example 55 0.133 g 0.341 mmol in THF 4.0 mL at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours before it was quenched with HCl 0.2 M . The mixture was taken up in EtOAc and washed with water and brine. The organic phase was dried over MgSO. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified with silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 4 1 1 to give Compound 92a 59 mg 49 .

NalO 70.1 mg 0.328 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 92a 46.2 mg 0.131 mmol and OsO 22.2 L 4 wt in water in THF 5.0 mL and water 5.0 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight before it was quenched by the addition of MeS 20 L 0.328 mmol . The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with HCl 0.5 M water and brine. The organic phase was dried over MgSO. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with hexane CHCl EtOAc v v v 2 1 1 to give Compound 92b 39 mg 84 .

Ceric ammonium nitrate 70.9 mg 0.129 mmol was added to a solution of Compound 92b 20.8 mg 0.059 mmol in MeCN 3.0 mL and water 0.3 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hours before it was diluted with EtOAc. The organic phase was washed with HCl 0.5 M water brine and dried over MgSO. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and crude product was purified using preparative TLC with hexane CHCl MeOH v v v 2 8 1 as eluent to give Example 92 8 mg 58 . Electrospray MS M 1 235.1.

Examples 82 91 were prepared by procedures similar to those used for the preparation of Example 49 using Example 10 and the appropriate corresponding alcohols.

Example 2 0.71 g 3.66 mmol 1 eq and SeO 0.46 g 1.1 eq were mixed together in 1 4 dioxane 10.5 mL and THF 1.5 mL and the mixture was heated to 90 C. in air for 24 hr. 5 of the resulting crude product was purified by directly loading it onto a reverse phase HPLC column to afford the desired product Example 92 7.4 mg as a white solid.

Compound 93a was prepared by a procedure similar to that used to prepare alcohol Example 92 except that the alcohol was allowed to oxidize further to the corresponding aldehyde. After purification several times using reverse phase HPLC Compound 93a 90 mg was obtained.

Compound 93b 90 mg 0.43 mmol 1 eq was mixed with 3 methoxyaniline 109 mg 2 equiv. and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 185 mg 2 equiv. in 2 mL of THF. After stirring overnight the reaction mixture was quenched with methanol. Preparative TLC afforded 15.3 mg of the desired product Example 93.

Example 94 was prepared by a procedure similar to that used to prepare Example 92 except that Example 1 was oxidized instead of Example 2.

2 butyn 1 ol 140 mg 2 mmol 2 equiv. in 4 mL of THF was treated with 1.6 M n BuLi 1.2 mL 2 equiv. at 0 C. for 5 min to provide an alkoxide solution. Example 10 0.25 g 1 mmol 1 equiv. was then added to the alkoxide solution. After stirring 1.5 hr 0.12 g of acetic acid 2 equiv. was added to the solution. The solvent was removed and extraction with diethyl ether and water provided a white solid. The solid was washed with cold diethyl ether and dried under vacuum. 80 mg of the desired product Example 95 was obtained.

Barbituric acid 1.0 g 7.81 mmol was taken up in excess acetone. Triethylamine 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was refluxed overnight after which it was cooled and filtered. The crude solid was purified by preparative TLC 8 1 1 EtOAc DCM MeOH to yield the desired product Example 96.

Examples 97 and 98 were prepared by methods analogous to the method used to prepare Example 1 except that 2 oxo cyclohexanecarboxylic acid methyl ester and 2 oxo cyclopentanecarboxylic acid methyl ester respectively were used instead of methylpropionylacetate. Electrospray MS M 1 for 96 and 97 are 235.1.

Commercially available Aldrich Compound 99a 75 g 383 mmol was stirred with cold aqueous NaCO 15 450 mL for 2 h. Extraction with EtOAc and drying over NaCOprovided Compound 99b as a colorless oil which was immediately treated with NHCl 19.5 g 364 mmol in 200 mL of dry EtOH at 50 C. for 60 h. The crude product mixture was cooled and the solvent was removed. The resulting light yellow solid was treated with cold KCO 30 300 mL HO for 0.5 h. Extraction with EtOAc gave Compound 99c as a light yellow solid 37.92 g . This solid was reacted with methyl propionylacetate 38.0 g 292 mmol 2 mL pyridine in 400 mL of dry EtOH at 100 C. for 24 h. After cooling and filtration the solid was washed with EtOH and 18 g of Compound 99d as a white solid was obtained 22 yield from Compound 99a .

Compound 99d 3.0 g 14.28 mmol was treated with BnBr 2.44 g 1 eq and KCO 3.94 g 2 eq in 100 mL acetone at 70 C. for 17 h. The solvent was removed and chromatographic purification 5 EtOAc in hexane provided 2.53 g pure Compound 99e in 58 yield.

Compound 99e 0.3 g 1 mmol was treated with EtN 0.22 g 2.2 eq COCl 1.9 M in toluene 0.53 mL 1 equiv in 5 mL DCM at 78 C. for 45 min. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature in 1 h. NH 0.5 M in 1 4 dioxane 2 mL 1 eq was added and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. The solvent was then removed 3 mL anhydrous THF was added along with t BuOK 1 M in THF 1 mL 1 equiv and the mixture was stirred overnight. The solvent was removed hexane and a small amount of MeOH were added and the resulting white solid was collected. The solid was further washed with anhydrous diethyl ether to give 3.8 mg of Example 99 as a white solid.

Example 100 was prepared following procedures similar to those used to prepare Example 99 except that methyl iodide was used instead of BnBr and cyclopropylmethylamine was used instead of ammonia.

Intermediate Compound 101a was prepared using procedures similar to those used to prepare Example 99 except that cyclobutylamine was used instead of ammonia.

Compound 101a 70 mg was treated with 3 Pd C 50 mg 10 mL MeOH under a hydrogen atmosphere hydrogen balloon overnight. After filtration prep HPLC purification provided 1.2 mg of Example 101.

In a 25 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and a nitrogen balloon was placed 1.0 g of barbituric acid 7.8 mmol and 1.52 mL of 3 oxoheptanoic acid methyl ester 9.6 mmol 1.23 equiv. . 8 mL of acetic acid was added to the reaction mixture and was refluxed for 16 h after which the reaction was cooled to room temperature. The excess acetic acid was concentrated and dried in vacuo to give crude product Example 102 along with unreacted starting materials. The crude product was stirred with 20 mL of boiling water for a few minutes and filtered. The precipitate was washed with boiling water 2 10 mL and dried to yield 0.65 g 35 yield of Example 102.

Examples 103 135 where prepared using procedures similar to those used to prepare Example 102 except that an appropriately substituted keto ester was used instead of 3 oxoheptanoic acid methyl ester.

The examples 200 210 241 242 245 246 252 260 274 278 280 281 282 284 285 291 were prepared by a procedure similar to that used for the preparation of Example 30 and 31.

The examples 201 202 204 209 211 218 224 240 243 244 247 251 261 273 279 283 286 290 293 294 297 were prepared by a procedure similar to that used for the preparation of example 102 using barbituric acid and the corresponding keto ester.

4 Methylhexanoic acid 3.0 g 23.08 mmol was taken in 40 mL THF. 1 1 Carbonyldiimidazole 4.49 g 27.69 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 h after which MgCl 2.2 g 23.08 mmol and ethyl potassium malonate 5.89 g 34.62 mmol was added. The reaction was allowed to run at room temperature overnight. The crude reaction mixture was filtered through a short pad of silica gel and eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 3 to yield compound 247a.

Step 1 A solution of triethyl phosphonate 44.8 g 200 mmol in THF 30 ml at 0 C. was treated with a 1M solution 200 ml of sodium bis trimethylsilylamide in THF. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 0.5 hour and then cooled to 0 C. A solution of 1 4 cyclohexanedione mono ethylene ketal 15.6 g 200 mmol in THF 50 ml was added dropwise and the resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 C. treated with cold aqueous citric acid and the mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The extract was washed with satd. aqueous NaHCO brine dried over NaSO filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel eluting with a gradient of CHCl EtOAc to afford 223b 21 g 91 .

Step 2 The compound 223b 20 g was dissolved in EtOH 150 ml and treated with 10 Pd C under 1 atm of hydrogen for 3 days. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated to 223c 20.3 g 100 .

Step 3 The compound 223c 7 g was dissolved in formic acid 50 ml and heated at 70 C. for 1 h. The solution was concentrated and the residue was taken up in EtOAc and washed with satd. aqueous NaHCO brine dried over NaSOand concentrated. The residue was chromatographed on silica gel to afford 223d 5 g .

Step 4 The compound 223d 4.6 g was dissolved in CHCl 10 ml and treated with diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DAST 5 ml at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water 30 ml and extracted with CHCl. The extract was washed with satd. aqueous NaHCO brine dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 223e as brown oil 3.2 g 62 .

Step 5 The compound 223e 3.2 g 15.5 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 5 ml and treated with LiOH 559 mg 23.3 mmol overnight. The reaction mixture was acidified by 3 N HCl to pH 4 and extracted with CHCl. The extract was dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford 223f as brown oil 3 g 100 .

Step 6 The compound 223f 900 mg 5.0 mmol was dissolved in THF 15 ml added with CDI 972 mg 6.0 mmol and stirred for 45 min. Then methyl malonate potassium salt 1.02 g 6.0 mmol and MgCl 570 mg 6.0 mmol were added into the above solution. The resulting mixture was stirred overnight and filtered through a short pad of silica gel and washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel to afford 223a as colorless oil 400 mg 34 .

Sodium hydride 1.42 g 35.56 mmol was taken in THF 20 mL in a round bottomed flask equipped with a stirring bar and nitrogen balloon. It was cooled to 0 C. and methyl acetoacetate 3.84 mL 35.56 mmol dissolved in 10 mL THF was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min after which n BuLi 2.5 M solution in hexanes 14.2 mL 35.56 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction was allowed to run for 30 min at 0 C. and then cooled to 25 C. Bromomethylcyclobutane 4.82 g 32.32 mmol dissolved in 20 mL THF was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred at 25 C. for 4 h followed by room temperature overnight. It was quenched with the addition of sat. NHCl extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL dried over MgSO concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by biotage 5 EtOAc hexanes to yield compound 266a.

Trifluoroacetic acid 7.84 mL 105.48 mmol and diiodomethane 8.5 mL 105.48 mmol in 50 mL DCM was cooled to 0 C. Diethylzinc 1.0 M solution in hexanes 105.5 mL 105.48 mmol was added dropwise. The reaction was allowed to stir at 0 C. for 20 min after which 5 Methyl 5 hexenoic acid methyl ester 5.0 g 35.16 mmol in 20 mL DCM was added dropwise. The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched by the addition of sat. NHCl extracted with DCM 2 30 mL dried over MgSO concentrated in vacuo to yield compound 268b which was carried over to the next step without further purification.

Ester 268b 5.0 g 32 mmol was taken in MeOH 50 mL and NaOH 3.2 g 80 mmol was added to it. The reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The reaction was diluted with water 50 mL and acidified with conc HCl. It was extracted with EtO 2 30 mL washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude product 268c was used as such without any further purification.

5 5 Dimethyl dihydro furan 2 one 5.0 g 43.8 mmol trimethyl orthoformate 11.5 mL 105.12 mmol and sulfuric acid 0.43 g 4.38 mmol were taken in MeOH 50 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. overnight. After cooling the solvent was removed in vacuo quenched with sat. NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc 2 30 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield compound 279b which was used without any further purification.

Lithium diisopropylamide 2.0 M solution in THF heptane ethyl benzene 43.4 mL 86.82 mmol was taken in THF 30 mL and cooled to 78 C. Isobutyronitrile 6 g 86.82 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h and 0 C. for 2 h. Benzyl 4 bromobutyl ether 21.1 g 86.82 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated NHCl and extracted with EtO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude compound obtained was purified by biotage 5 EtOAc hexanes to yield compound 288b.

Compound 288b was taken up in CHCl 25 mL in a 100 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a stirring bar and nitrogen balloon and cooled to 78 C. Boron trichloride 1.0 M solution in hexanes 43.2 mL 43.2 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction was allowed to gradually warm to 0 C. After 1 h the reaction was quenched by the addition of sat. NaHCO extracted with CHCl. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield the crude compound which was purified by filtering through a short pad of silica gel eluting with 50 EtOAc hexanes to yield compound 288c.

Compound 288c 3.0 g 21.2 mmol was taken in acetone 20 mL and cooled to 0 C. Jones reagent was added dropwise until there was no change in color to green upon addition of the reagent. The excess reagent was quenched by the addition of i PrOH and water 20 mL extracted with EtO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to yield compound 288d which was used without further purification.

Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.0 M solution in THF 108.9 mL 108.9 mmol was taken up in 100 mL THF in a 500 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a stirring bar and nitrogen balloon. The solution was cooled to 0 C. and methoxymethyl triphenylphosphonium chloride 37.3 g 108.9 mmol was added portionwise and the dark red solution was stirred at 0 C. for 45 min. Dicyclopropyl ketone 10 g 90.78 mmol in THF 10 mL was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 3 h after which the reaction mixture was poured into hexane. The mixture was filtered through silica gel eluting with hexane. Solvent removal gave the crude enol ether. The crude enol ether was taken up in THF 100 mL and 10 HCl 100 mL was added. The reaction was refluxed overnight. Upon cooling diluted with water and extracted with EtO 2 50 mL washed with brine dried over MgSO concentrated in vacuo. The crude mixture 293b was used as such without further purification.

Sodium hydride 6.44 g 161 mmol was taken in THF 30 mL in a 250 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and nitrogen balloon. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. Triethylphosphonoacetate 36.1 g 161 mmol in 20 mL THF was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h after which it was cooled back to 0 C. and compound 293b 10 g 80.5 mmol in 20 mL THF was added dropwise and the reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched by the addition of water and was extracted with EtO. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude was purified by biotage 2 EtOAc hexanes to yield compound 293c.

Compound 293c was taken up in 100 mL EtOH in a 200 mL round bottomed flask. To the solution was added Pd C 10 wt 7.0 g 5.7 mmol and the mixture was hydrogenated using a hydrogen balloon under ambient temperature for 12 h. The mixture was filtered through celite and eluted with EtOH which upon solvent removal gave crude compound 293d.

Into the solution of iodobenzene 10.2 g 50 mmol in anhydrous DMSO 150 mL and 3 oxoenanthic acid methyl ester 15.8 g 100 mmol was added copper I iodide 1.9 g 10 mmol L proline 2.3 g 20 mmol and cesium carbonate 65.2 g 200 mmol . After stirred under Nat 40 C. for 18 hours the reaction mixture was dissolved into ethyl acetate 250 mL washed with water 4 150 ml . The organic solution was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes v v 5 95 to give compound 292a 4.5 g 38 .

To a solution of 2 cyclopentyl ethanol 11.4 g 100 mmol anhydrous CHCl 80 mL and triethyl amine 12 g 120 mmol which cooled to 0 C. was added via syringe MsCl 13.7 g 120 mmol . After stirring under Nat 0 C. for 1 hour then at room temperature for 18 hours the reaction mixture was washed with water 2 100 mL dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a clear oil 19 g 100 . The oil was dissolved into anhydrous CHCl 250 mL and mixed with NaI 20 g 200 mmol . After stirring at room temperature for 18 hours the reaction mixture was filtered from solid. The resulting filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to give a brown paste. The paste was dissolved into diethyl ether 300 mL washed with water 2 150 mL dried with sodium sulfate concentrated under reduced pressure to give compound 297b 20 g 89 .

To a solution of methyl acetoacetate 5.8 g 50 mmol and anhydrous THF 100 mL which cooled to 0 C. was added NaH 60 2.4 g 60 mmol . After stirring under Nat 0 C. for 0.5 hour n BuLi 2.5 M in hexanes 20 mL was added via syringe. After stirring at 0 C. for 0.5 hour the reaction mixtures was cooled to 25 C. the compound 297b was added via syringe. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 0.5 hour then room temperature for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated ammonium chloride 200 mL and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL washed with water 2 100 mL . The organic solution was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give a brown oil which purified using silica gel flash column chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate hexanes v v 7 93 to give compound 297a 3.2 g 32 .

Compound 214a 10 g 48.04 mmol was taken in DMF 50 mL in a round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar. N Iodosuccinimide 22 g 97.79 mmol was added portionwise and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. overnight. After cooling to ambient temperature HO 100 mL was added. The product was filtered washed with water followed by ether to give a white powdery mixture 95 yield . The product 214b was used as such for the next step without any further purification.

Compound 214b 0.1 g 0.3 mmol was taken in CH 1 mL in a 10 mL round bottomed flask. Pd OAc 0.004 g 0.018 mmol PPh 0.014 g 0.054 mmol and NaCO 0.5 mL 2M solution was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 30 min. trans 1 Hexen 1 ylboronic acid 0.042 g 0.33 mmol in EtOH 0.5 mL was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to reflux 80 C. overnight. After cooling the mixture was diluted with HO 2 mL extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL dried over MgSO concentrated and dried to yield the crude compound 214. Purification by preparative TLC 10 MeOH DCM to yield compound 214.

Compound 214b 0.1 g 0.3 mmol was taken in DMF 3.0 mL in a 10 mL round bottomed flask. PdCl PPh 0.011 g 0.015 mmol phenylacetylene 0.061 g 0.6 mmol CuI 0.006 g 0.03 mmol and triethylamine 0.091 g 0.9 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 5 mL neutralized with 1N HCl and extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL dried over MgSO concentrated and dried to yield crude 219. The crude product was taken in ether and filtered to yield pure compound 219.

Barbituric acid 220a 1.0 g 7.81 mmol and keto ester 220b 1.45 g 9.4 mmol was taken in glacial acetic acid 8 mL and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the acetic acid was removed in vacuo and hot water was added to remove excess barbituric acid. The procedure was repeated a few times until no starting material was left. It was followed by washing with ether. The product 220c was dried and needed no further purification.

Compound 220c 0.1 g 0.431 mmol was taken in DMF 1 mL in a 10 mL round bottomed flask. Iodobenzene 0.053 g 0.258 mmol PdCl PPh 0.003 g 0.0043 mmol CuI 0.002 g 0.0086 mmol and EtNH 0.157 g 2.15 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 2 mL neutralized with 1N HCl and extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL . It was dried over MgSO concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by preparative TLC 20 MeOH DCM to yield compound 220.

Barbituric acid 1.0 g 7.81 mmol and Diethyl ketoadipate 216a 2.03 g 9.4 mmol was taken in glacial acetic acid 8 mL and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux overnight. After cooling to room temperature the acetic acid was removed in vacuo and hot water was added to remove excess barbituric acid. The procedure was repeated a few times until no starting material was left. It was followed by washing with ether. The product 216 was dried and needed no further purification.

To a solution of ethylphenylacetate 8.2 g 0.05 mol in THF at 78 C. was added LHMDS 1M in THF 100 ml 0.10 mol and stirred for 20 min. Propionic anhydride 6.5 ml 0.05 mol was added rapidly. The mixture was allowed to warm up to 0 C. and stirred for 30 min. It was quenched with NHCl aq. and extracted with EtOAc. Usual work up afforded the crude material which was chromatographed on silica gel to obtain product.

Starting material 209a 9.9 g 75 mmol was dissolved in THF 100 mL and water 25 mL . LiOH 3.4 g 80.9 mmol the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. 1 N HCl 100 mL was added and extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO to give compound 209b 8.8 g 93 .

Compound 209c 1.9 g 16.1 mmol was dissolved in THF 50 mL CDI 12.3 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. MgCl 1.5 g 16.1 mmol and KOCOCHCOMe 3.8 g 24.2 mmol were added the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. EtOAc 100 mL water 50 mL were added. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was separated by silica gel chromatography with Biotage 40S column eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 10 to give 2.1 g 74 yellow liquid as Compound 209d.

Compound 209c 1.13 g 6.49 mmol and barbituric acid 0.5 g 3.90 mmol was mixed with HOAc 2 mL in a sealed tube and heated in an oil bath at 125 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature HOAc was removed and the residue was taken up in MeOH and filtered. The volume of the mother liquid was reduced until solid started to come out the beige solid was collected to give Compound 209 153 mg 10 . Electrospray MS M 1 253.1.

Compound 208 was prepared in a similar fashion as in Compound 209 from the commercially available Compound 208a.

Starting lactone 10 g 116 mmol was mixed with allylbromide 30 mL 346 mmol toluene 75 mL and KOH 19.5 g 348 mmol . The mixture was heated 110 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature water 100 mL was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give a yellow liquid as the desired Compound 270a 11.8 g 55.2 .

Compound 270a 3.0 g 16.3 mmol was dissolve in EtOH 20 mL 10 Pd C 300 mg was added. The slurry was stirred under Hovernight. The mixture was filtered through Celite and the filtrate was concentrated to give a yellow liquid as the desired Compound 270b 2.5 g 81 .

Compound 270b 3.0 g 16.3 mmol was dissolve in THF 20 mL HO 7 mL LiOH 1.66 g 39.5 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. 1 N HCl 75 mL was added and extracted with EtO. The organic extracts were combined dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in THF 50 mL CDI 12.3 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. MgCl 1.3 g 13.6 mmol and KOCOCHCOMe 2.9 g 18.5 mmol were added the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. EtOAc 100 mL water 50 mL were added. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was separated by silica gel chromatography with Biotage 40S column eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 10 to give 1.5 g 46 yellow liquid as Compound 270d.

Compound 270d 448 mg 2.22 mmol and barbituric acid 340 mg 2.65 mmol was mixed with HOAc 2 mL in a sealed tube and heated in an oil bath at 125 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature HOAc was removed and the residue was taken up in MeOH and filtered. The mother liquid was concentrated and separated by preparative TLC eluted with 1 10 10 HOAc DCM EtOAc to give desired Compound 270 72 mg 11.4 as a white solid. Electrospray MS M 1 281.2.

Starting alcohol 5.2 g 28.0 mmol was dissolved in DCM 100 mL triethylamine 6 mL 42.7 mmol and MsCl 2.6 mL 33.6 mmol was added. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed with 1 N HCl 50 mL 2 . The aqueous layers were combined extracted with EtOAc. The organic layers were combined washed with brine dried MgSO4 filtered and concentrated to give Compound 271a 7.26 g 100 .

Cyclopentanol 3.8 mL 42 mmol was dissolved in THF 50 mL under nitrogen. NaH 0.85 g 95 oil dispersion 33.7 mmol was added. The resulting slurry was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. A solution of mesylate 271a 7.26 g 28 mmol in DMF 30 mL was added via syringe. The resulting mixture was heated at 85 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with EtOAc and washed with water 50 mL 3 . The aqueous layers were combined and extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified over silica gel column eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 10 to give 4.95 g 71 of Compound 271 b as an amber liquid.

Compound 271b 4.95 g 20 mmol was dissolved in EtOH 100 mL 10 Pd C 0.55 g was added and stirred under 1 atm of hydrogen balloon overnight. Filtered through Celite the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified over silica gel column eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 3 to give 3.1 g 98 of Compound 271c as a colorless liquid.

CrOwas mixed with 4.7 mL of conc. HSO. The mixture was diluted with water to 36 mL. Compound 271c was dissolved in acetone 30 mL and Jones reagent was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h diluted with water and extracted with DCM. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to give 1.99 g 71 .

Compound 271d 2.40 g 14.0 mmol dissolved in THF 50 mL CDI 2.48 g 15.3 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. MgCl 1.5 g 15.3 mmol and KOCOCHCOMe 3.3 g 20.9 mmol were added the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. EtOAc 100 mL water 50 mL were added. The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The organic extracts were combined washed with brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was filtered through a pad of silica gel eluted with EtOAc hexanes 1 3 to give 2.2 g 69 yellow liquid as Compound 270e.

Compound 271e 448 mg 2.22 mmol and barbituric acid 340 mg 2.65 mmol was mixed with HOAc 2 mL in a sealed tube and heated in an oil bath at 125 C. overnight. The mixture was cooled to room temperature HOAc was removed and the residue was taken up in MeOH and filtered. The mother liquid was concentrated and separated by preparative TLC eluted with 1 10 10 HOAc DCM EtOAc to give desired Compound 271 55 mg 4 as a white solid. Electrospray MS M 1 307.2.

Compound 273 Compound 287 and Compound 290 are prepared in a similar fashion as Compound 271 from the corresponding alcohols.

Compound 205a 50 mg 0.14 mmol was dissolved in DMF 2 mL and HO 2 mL Pd dppf Cland KCOwere added. The resulting mixture was heated at 85 C. under nitrogen for 5 h. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and filtered through Celite. The filtrated was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and DCM was added until precipitation persisted. The solid was collected as the desired Compound 205 21 mg 40 . Electrospray MS M 1 481.5.

Several compounds of the invention are shown in the Table below as well as in the Tables presented later in this specification. The LCMS data is also shown wherever available. The activity EC50 data is also shown wherever measured and available and is designated A B or C where A 0.001 nM to 100 nM B is 1001000 nM.

Compound 699a 0.925 g 3.53 mmol was taken in DMF 10 mL in a round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar. N Iodosuccinimide 1.59 g 7.05 mmol was added portionwise and the reaction mixture was heated to 50 C. overnight. After cooling to ambient temperature HO 25 mL was added. The product was filtered washed with water followed by ether to give a white powdery mixture 95 yield . The product 699b was used as such for the next step without any further purification.

Compound 699b 0.1 g 0.258 mmol was taken in 5 mL DME HO 4 1 in a 10 mL round bottomed flask. PdCl PPh 0.018 g 0.0258 mmol NaCO 0.082 g 0.774 mmol and phenylboronic acid 0.057 g 0.464 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to reflux 80 C. for 6 h. After cooling the mixture was concentrated and purified by flash chromatography CHClto 5 MeOH CHCl to yield compound 699.

The nicotinic acid receptor agonist activity of the inventive compounds was determined by following the inhibition of forskolin stimulated cAMP accumulation in cells using the MesoScale Discovery cAMP detection kit following the manufacturer s protocol. Briefly Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells expressing recombinant human nicotinic acid receptor NAR were harvested enzymatically washed 1 in phosphate buffered saline PBS and resuspended in PBS containing 0.5 mM IBMX at 3 10cells mL. Ten L of cell suspension was added to each well of a 384 well plate which contained 10 L of test compounds. Test compounds were diluted with PBS containing 6 M of forskolin. Plates were incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature after the addition of cells. Lysis buffer containing cAMP Tag was added to each well 10 L well as per the manufacturer s protocol. Plates were then incubated from 45 minutes to overnight. Prior to reading 10 L of read buffer was added to each well and the plate was read in a Sector 6000 plate imager. The signal was converted to cAMP concentration using a standard curve run on each plate. Compound ECvalues were determined from concentration gradients of test compounds.

Compounds of Formula I of the present invention and salts solvates or esters thereof have cAMP ECvalues of less than about 10 000 nM preferably about 1000 nM or less more preferably about 500 nM or less even more preferably about 100 nM or less.

The activity of a non limiting list of illustrative inventive compounds as measured by the above described assay is shown in the following Table 

The activity of several other compounds of the present invention is shown earlier in this specification as A B or C. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the herein described inventive compounds exhibit excellent nicotinic acid receptor agonist activity. While the present invention has been described with in conjunction with the specific embodiments set forth above many alternatives modifications and other variations thereof will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. All such alternatives modifications and variations are intended to fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

