---

title: Ultra-fast laser system
abstract: A laser system is provided which selectively excites Raman active vibrations in molecules. In another aspect of the present invention, the system includes a laser, pulse shaper and detection device. A further aspect of the present invention employs a femtosecond laser and binary pulse shaping (BPS). Still another aspect of the present invention uses a laser beam pulse, a pulse shaper and remote sensing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08633437&OS=08633437&RS=08633437
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08633437
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 652 772 filed on Feb. 14 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under DE FG02 01ER15143 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally relates to a laser system and more particularly to an ultra fast laser system using a pulse shaper.

Conventionally lasers used for chemical analysis through spectroscopy or mass spectrometry have used a laser beam pulse where the pulse duration and wavelength are fixed and computers are employed for simple chemical analysis processes. The laser beam pulse shape and in particular the phase of the frequencies within its bandwidth was not considered an important parameter and was not modified whatever fixed shape was set by the manufacturer for the laser was used in the tests. The general concept of typically laser selective ion formation from molecules in a molecular beam is disclosed in the following publication Assion et al. Control of Chemical Reactions by Feedback Optimized Phase Shaped Femtosecond Laser Pulses Science Vol. 282 page 919 Oct. 30 1998 . The pulse shaping process with a learning algorithm is disclosed in Judson et al. Teaching Lasers to Control Molecules Physical Review Letters Vol. 68 No. 10 page 1500 Mar. 9 1992 . It is noteworthy however that the Assion article discloses use of an 80 femtosecond laser pulse and requires molecules to be isolated in a molecular beam while the Judson article discloses use of a one nanosecond laser pulse and is purely conceptual as it does not include experimental results. Similarly the findings by Assion et al. had great scientific interest but the results were not sufficiently reproducible to be considered useful for analytical purposes.

There have been recent experimental attempts to purposely shape the phase of ultrashort pulses since shaped pulses have been shown to increase the yield of certain chemical reactions and multiphoton excitation although the mechanism for the observed changes remains unknown in most cases. As usually practiced the output waveform is determined by the Fourier transform hereinafter FT of a spatial pattern transferred by a mask or a modulator array onto the dispersed optical spectrum. The introduction of liquid crystal modulator arrays and acousto optic hereinafter A O modulators into FT pulse shapers led to computer programmable pulse shaping with millisecond and microsecond reprogramming times respectively and widespread adoption of this technique. These shaped pulses require a very large data set and in many cases complex learning calculations for determining the pulse shaping characteristics for a particular application. The optimal pulse for the particular application is not known in advance. Since the variation shape of the possible pulse shapes is huge scanning the entire parameter space is impossible and as such the optimized pulse shape could not have been predicted by theory. For a pulse shaper with N pixels one can generate P A shaped pulses where P and A are the number of different phases and amplitudes a pixel can take. If it is assumed 100 pixels each taking 10 different amplitude values and 100 different phase values the number of different pulses is of order of magnitude 10. This dataset is extremely large therefore while in principle the field exists to achieve the desired photonic transformation or excitation finding it is a great challenge. Some researchers have attempted to avoid such complexity by binning together every 8 pixels on the pulse shaper thereby converting a 128 pixel shaper into one with 16 active pixel groups but with the inherent loss of accuracy. Therefore it would be desirable for an ultra fast laser system to control ultrashort pulses with a smaller dataset operable to generate very complex pulse shapes that are optimal for the particular application and are highly reproducible. The following U.S. patent publications have overcome these traditional concerns and have led to reproducible results 2004 0233944 entitled Laser System Using Ultra Short Laser Pulses published on Nov. 25 2004 2004 0089804 entitled Control System and Apparatus for Use with Laser Excitation or Ionization published on May 13 2004 and 2003 0099264 entitled Laser System Using Ultrashort Laser Pulses published on May 29 2003 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0145735 entitled Coherently Controlled Nonlinear Raman Spectroscopy and Microscopy to Silberberg et al. teaches use of a unitary pulse carrying a pump Stokes and probe photon. This patent is incorporated by reference herein.

Additionally monitoring the environment for chemical and biological agents including explosives from terrorist threats or from industrial contamination has become a necessity for reasons of national security and the well being of humans. Conventional devices are only designed for use to detect a single known agent or are inaccurate. Accordingly to avoid a costly false positive or false negative identification it would be desirable to employ an ultra fast laser to environmental monitoring in order to quickly and accurately identify and or act upon select molecules.

In accordance with the present invention a laser system is provided which selectively excites Raman active vibrations in molecules. In another aspect of the present invention the system includes a laser pulse shaper and detection device. A further aspect of the present invention employs a femtosecond laser and binary pulse shaping. Still another aspect of the present invention uses a laser beam pulse a pulse shaper and remote sensing. In yet another aspect of the present invention a multiphoton intrapulse interference method is used to characterize the spectral phase of laser pulses and to compensate any distortions. A further aspect of the system of the present invention is employed to remotely monitor environmental chemical and biological agents or specimens including toxins explosives and diseases among others.

The laser system of the present invention is advantageous over conventional constructions since the present invention allows for remote automated analysis and identification of molecules in complex mixtures. It is envisioned that the present invention is capable of fast for example one second accurate for example even in a chemically complex environment robust for example stand alone closed loop and portable and reproducible sensing. Raman active vibration sensing by the present invention provides extremely accurate and redundant identification of specimens. Operationally the system employs a computer controlled pulse shaping module which interfaces with a commercially available femtosecond pulsed laser a spectrometer or a mass spectrometry module thereby using cost effective instruments. The present invention system is ideally suited for remote sensing from large distances. Furthermore the laser system of the present invention advantageously detects and or destroys impurities in blood and assists in photodynamic therapy. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

An ultra fast laser system is provided to detect chemical and biological agents in the desired environmental specimen or target area. The approach of the present invention system is based on nonlinear laser molecule interactions that will yield uniquely selective radiant emissive signatures. The specificity of the method is built on the quantum mechanical interaction between a shaped laser field and the electronic and molecular structure of the target. Multiphoton intrapulse interference is used to achieve high laser molecule specificity through controlled reactivity and intramolecular energy flow. In general three basic steps are employed. First implementation includes a shaped femtosecond laser source coupled collinearly to a synchronized narrow bandwidth IR pulse. The shaped laser pulse will induce specific vibrational responses on the target molecule while the narrow bandwidth IR pulse will stimulate the emission and carry a Raman signature back to the detector. Second an arms length identification of molecular targets is provided. Third this technology is applied to remote molecular identification.

Referring to the preferred embodiment system of the present invention includes a laser and detection apparatus inside a remote location such as an aerospace craft including an artificial satellite airplane or helicopter stationary tower or the like. A remote command center such as a public safety or fire department is also provided. Laser and detection apparatus includes a femtosecond laser pulse shaping optics a spectrometer and a remote computer controller as will be discussed in greater detail hereinafter. Computer controller communicates with an emergency computer controller in command center . Alternately the remote facility containing a laser and detection apparatus of system of the present invention may be a subway station see airport building or the like.

The system is initially set up at its manufacturing facility with a library of pre stored data of acceptable background data unacceptable chemical and biological agent data and the corresponding pulse shaping control data. The self contained system is subsequently installed at the remote location. System is acting as an artificial nose in that it receives and or analyzes air from inside the target environmental area. Upon installation and set up and optionally at regular intervals of known safe conditions remote computer controller senses or monitors acceptable background chemicals in the air such as oxygen carbon dioxide chlorine if adjacent a swimming pool benzene if adjacent a bus station or high volume street or hexachlorobenzene adjacent a hospital or the like. These acceptable background chemicals are automatically stored in the memory of computer controller and matched with pulse shapes and mass spectrums previously stored in the library of data. Active baseline subtraction is thereafter employed during regular environmental monitoring so these benign chemicals and their fragments are not mistakenly considered part of a dangerous compound thereby reducing the risk of creating a false detection and warning.

Subsequently the system automatically samples air from each environmental target area at a repetition rate of approximately one per minute a rate which is then increased to approximately one thousand times per second if an unusual background chemical or undesirable agent is detected. The background and regularly monitored chemical analyses are stored in the computer memory for later automatic and or manual comparisons in the event of agent detection. The varying sample rate minimizes the memory and historical trend information from becoming overwhelmed with unnecessary results and the variable repetition rate saves laser power costs and prolongs the life of laser components and detection equipment.

If an undesirably harmful chemical or biological agent is sensed then remote computer controller will automatically transmit warning and other calculated information to emergency controller at command center . Examples of such undesirable agents include and are not limited to methane propane mustard gas nerve agents phosgene vinyl chloride cyanide anthrax and other pathogens and diseases. The present invention is advantageously expected to work on solids liquids and gases using spectroscopy and or mass spectrometry. System will also recalibrate itself and use multiple shaped pulses to reduce the likelihood of error and to insure that there is no mass spec overlap of results between undesired agents and acceptable chemicals. The unit will further calculate a confidence percentage of the test results compared to an unacceptable agent believed to have been identified based on previously stored library data. If a low confidence level is determined then the unit will rapidly conduct one or more further tests on the environment within seconds of the initial noteworthy reading.

If the confidence level calculated of an undesirable agent is statistically significant then remote computer controller will send the appropriate warnings and information to the command center including currently calculated values and historical trends. This will allow for evacuation and or countermeasures to be employed. Furthermore the system will continue sensing all adjacent environmental areas so as to track movement and cross contamination between environmental areas for use by emergency personnel.

On a more detailed level within the system using wisdom based evolutionary learning calculation search methods a series of binary phase shaped hereinafter BPS laser fields is chosen to cause selective excitation of the sample through impulsive Raman scattering hereinafter ISRS . The shaped pulse induces selective ISRS. This involves multiple pump Stokes transitions but it does not involve the probe photons. This method also takes into account spontaneous emissions that will take place as a result of the intense shaped laser pulse. The BPS phase functions are based on quasi random number sequences that achieve much higher selectivity than periodic functions. The wisdom based evolutionary searches are used to combine knowledge of the chemical agent and map the resulting signals as a function of binary phase functions to determine the optimum excitation. The radiant emissions resulting from BPS ISRS mainly in the infrared will be registered through coherent anti Stokes Raman scattering and will be used to identify each chemical or biological agent of interest. The selectivity of BPS ISRS is based on reproducible control of chemical reactivity and energy flow using BPS and mass spectrometry. Detection will also be improved by using an IR pulse to carry the anti Stokes emission instead of using a UV laser for resonance Raman detection. Significantly BPS ISRS produces distinctly different radiant signatures for the identification of chemical or biological samples. The system uses Raman active vibration detection and identification of scattered electromagnetic radiation and scattering of light wavelengths when the molecular specimen is struck by the shaped laser beam pulse s . The multidimensional analytical tool will thus be used for remote identification. This BPS ISRS system of the present invention is then incorporated into a field ready module such as apparatus or capable of detection of contaminants even in the presence of a chemically complex environment.

The shaped laser pulse will induce a number of nonlinear optical excitations in the sample molecule. These lead to spontaneous and coherent emission. The spontaneous emission identified as fluorescence and phosphorescence from excited electronic states as well as spontaneous Raman emission. Under strong field excitation plasma is formed and atomic emissions are observed as well. The coherent emission is mainly identified as the coherent anti Stokes Raman signal. Both spontaneous and coherent emissions will be recorded and used for identification purposes. This is employed for laser induced breakdown spectroscopy as well as BPS ISRS.

Furthermore operational parameters such as ultimate sensitivity are initially obtained once a number of pre determined shaped laser pulses as more fully described hereinafter for the library are found for a given molecule together with the TL pulse also as more fully described hereinafter for the library the system is ready to make a positive identification of that particular chemical. In fact every time the measurement is performed with a different pulse shape the accuracy is improved exponentially with the number of independent measurements. This multidimensional analysis of the present invention is believed to make it a million times more accurate than presently used mass spectrometry units. The goal is to build a library of multidimensional spectra that result from shaped laser pulses that have been optimized for maximum contrast for each given chemical or biological threat agent and their analogs . It is important to optimize the pulses for each molecule because each molecule has a distinct electronic and nuclear structure that determines its susceptibility for ionization and fragmentation. It is noteworthy again that the evolutionary learning program searches and database building will only be used in a laboratory setting and not in the field with the preferred embodiment system.

The present invention pulse shaper monitoring of the environment will be carried out as follows. Every second the system will obtain a mass spectrum using TL pulses. Under these conditions the system is at its highest sensitivity. If a mass spectrum indicates that a possible chemical agent is present the system immediately narrows the list of possibilities based on the available TL mass spectrum and performs tests with the first three fields defined in the library for the suspected chemical agents. These subsequent tests are run at the maximum repetition rate. Within seconds the unit should have confirmation of the suspected chemical agent s present. At this point the system runs a calibration test to make sure that the laser shaper and mass spectrometer are operating within specifications. The system performs three additional measurements with the final three shaped laser pulses for a final and definitive determination. If the identification is positive for a known threat the system contacts a command center and uplinks the experimental data used to make the determination. The command center has the required information to make the best strategic decision based on solid information within a minute of detection. Additional rounds of tests can be requested from the command center with each full cycle taking less than one minute to complete. The speed and efficiency of the method is achieved by having previously determined the six best shaped laser pulses for each molecule. The pulse shapes in the library are determined using the automated evolutionary learning program in a laboratory setting. Updated pulse shape libraries are periodically uploaded to the remote computer controller of the field system.

Remote sensing will require the sensitive detection of specific nonlinear excitation of the target molecules induced by BPS ISRS. In essence the laser controls the excitation and energy flow in the target molecule to yield specific excitation. The molecular emissions coherent and incoherent will be recorded for identification. If the incoherent emissions are too weak and lost in the background then detection of the coherent emissions will be accomplished using a narrow bandwidth IR laser synchronized with the excitation pulse to stimulate the emission and carry the anti Stokes signal back to the detector. The spectroscopic information in other words a signature can then be used to identify the target molecule based on a database of elicited responses. This is represented in where a narrow bandwidth laser is used to probe the excitation of the vibrational bands. The result of selective BPS ISRS is more clearly observed in the anti Stokes spectrum as shown schematically in the upper right corner.

The design and construction of the radiant emission detection system is as follows. For initial testing a system based on a 0.5 m focal length design is shown schematically in . Two laser pulses are used as shown in or . The laser system is an amplified Ti Sapphire source which generates sub 45 fs pulses at a 1 kHz repetition rate with 0.7 mJ of energy per pulse. The laser is shaped by a 128 pixel phase amplitude SLM based pulse shaper . Furthermore the pulse shaper is self calibrating using the MIIPS method. The second laser pulse is derived using a beam splitter and using a portion of the laser pulse to pump a non collinear optical parametric amplifier that will generate the local field from the same laser . The wavelength of the local field will be chosen to be near 1064 nm with 0.5 picosecond duration and a narrow bandwidth. Moreover two dichroic mirrors D and D and a focusing mirror are provided. Mirror D has maximum reflection from 700 to 900 nm and is AR coated in the back. Mirror D has a very sharp high reflectance window from 1050 to 1075 nm and is AR coated in the back. Thus mirror D reflects the femtosecond laser pulse but transmits the reference pulse. Both mirrors transmit the backwards propagating signal and the use of a concave gold coated mirror for both the femtosecond laser and the reference beam provides wavelength independent focusing.

Referring to an amplified Ti Sapphire ultra fast laser has an output of 1 milli Joule but greater than 1 micro Joule centered at 800 nm. With this embodiment laser emits 50 femtosecond or less pulses and more preferably pulses around 20 femtoseconds. A pulse shaper can be like those discussed hereinafter and a non collinear optical parametric amplifier are employed. Amplifier generates a synchronized pulse at a different wavelength than the incoming pulse for example to generate a synchronized and narrow bandwidth pulse that is at least 2000 wave numbers detuned from the amplified laser system. A spectrometer detector records a spectrum and is preferably a compact unit with an array detector. A telescope or microscope is used for both excitation and detection paths or alternately two telescopes can be used. Furthermore a beam splitter and dichroic mirrors and are in the optical paths. A CPU computer controller is used to build a database and or uses a pre stored database library for sample identification.

The alternate system of is similar to that of but with some differences. In this exemplary embodiment a Ytterbium based amplified laser produces 10 500 femtosecond pulses which is more compact and less expensive. The output is centered near 1050 nm and has an output of at least 1 mJ. A Chromium Forsterite laser can also be used. A bandwidth expander is provided which expands the coherent bandwidth of the laser pulse in combination with a non collinear optical parametric amplifier or a micro structured optical fiber.

The stimulated Raman scattering step by the femtosecond laser is optimized in the present invention. As illustrated in impulsive stimulated Raman scattering requires a double interaction with the field and defines the Raman shift following the principle of MII. This is in accordance with the equation 

The search for optimal ISRS phase functions using genetic algorithms is highly inefficient. Nevertheless by restricting the shaper to binary phase only and not to amplitude the best solutions have not been lost. Furthermore the search space is highly symmetric. It is believed that the best solutions are given by pseudorandom number series that is series that have little or no repetition. In particular Galois series are used to construct phases with up to 128 pixels that optimize very narrow ISRS processes at a desired detuning frequency.

This new method employs spectral phase functions of pseudorandom binary sequences with translation symmetry. A pseudorandom binary number is chosen from a list of sequences with minimal correlation. Such lists can be found in M. R. Schroeder 1997 p. 362 and J. Knauer http www.cecm.sfu.ca jknauer labs records.html Oct. 8 2004 . The symmetrized functions can then be obtained as follows First a pseudorandom binary number from a list of sequences with minimal correlation for N 8 for example it is 10110000 is selected. Second the number is symmetrized or antisymmetrized depending on the nonlinear process using reflection for two photon excitation 1011000000001101 and translation for stimulated Raman scattering 1011000010110000 producing a phase function that will cause the desired selective nonlinear optical excitation excitation.

It is estimated that the target to background ratio selectively gained by pulse shaping is at least one order of magnitude greater for the present approach compared to conventional attempts. The selectivity and tuning range of the present invention are ideal for discriminating between different molecular species. The highly nonlinear interaction between the laser and the sample allows excitation of much higher vibrational levels with much longer pulses. Thus it is believed that the present invention will achieve selective excitation within the first 500 cmand perhaps well beyond that range.

Another advantage of the present invention is the preferred use of IR as the local field to carry the signal instead of UV. First scattering and spontaneous emission rates increase roughly as the cube of the frequency of the incident light for a conventional proposal with UV and a third harmonic of the YAG laser for the local field resulting in almost an order of magnitude greater background compared to infrared probing. Second the transmission of IR is much greater that that of IR light in the atmosphere therefore providing a greater range for remote sensing. Another advantage is the confocal excitation probing arrangement of the present invention setup shown in . Given that the two lasers are in the near infrared both can be focused with the same gold mirror and the signal can be collected with the same mirror therefore minimizing losses due to misalignment or chromatic distortions. Detection can be achieved using a fiber optic line coupled to a miniature spectrometer such as an intensified Ocean Optics device.

A computer program interfacing between the pulse shaper and the detector sub systems is used to achieve BPS ISRS. The most efficient data acquisition and the number of averages that are required to extract the desired signal to noise ratio are determined. Finally a protocol that collects spectra from a pre selected number of binary phase pulse shapes is also determined.

A multidimensional database for remote molecule identification using BPS ISRS including pulse shapes and expected signatures is used for unequivocal and fast sample identification. This database has selective excitation data at particular vibrational modes which translates into enhanced peak intensity in the recorded Raman line. The database also includes excitation data that does not cause enhancement which is used by the remote controller to automatically discriminate from other compounds that may have similar Raman spectra. With each spectra recorded and used for identification an exponential increase in the confidence value is gained. For example if the method of the present invention has a 10 uncertainty per measured spectra N differently stimulated spectra will result in a reduced uncertainty of 0.1 provided that each spectra is distinguishably different based on the ISRS process induced by the shaped pulse.

Identification of biological agents has traditionally been very difficult because of great similarities between these species. Essentially all living material is composed of organic compounds with C H C O and C N bonds. Living materials form domains where a large concentration of a particular type of bond is prevalent for example membranes have a high concentration of C H bonds due to the saturated hydrocarbon chains. One of the greatest challenges for biological sample identification is to identify different types of spores and in particular anthrax spores. belongs to the group of six species e.g. anthracis cereus thuringiensis mycoides pseudomycoides and weihenstephanensis . Despite such close affinities to no other members of the group are so deadly to humans. shows the close similarity in the Raman spectrum of the spores which are usually identified by their sharp calcium dipicolinate CaDPA band. Due to their similarity positive identification of anthrax spores requires PCR amplification followed by identification of chromosomal markers. The incubation time is typically 18 hours.

A method capable of identifying anthrax within minutes such as that expected with the present invention would be ideal and could save lives. It is believed that the method disclosed herein would be able to take advantage of the multi dimensional selective ISRS excitation afforded by the shaped laser pulse and the resulting coherent and incoherent emissions to distinguish among the different spores. The rationale would be that the nonlinear interactions between the shaped pulses and the spores may amplify the differences. To find the differences the acquisition of spectra for 10 000 differently shaped pulses is used with each spectrum having the average of 100 laser shots for a total of 20 minutes of data acquisition. A key parameter such as the height of the CaDPA peak 1013 cm divided by the height of the amide III band 1245 cm could be identified. A data set for each of the variants allows comparison. It is important to find the greatest differences and then to reduce the experimental space to 1024 shaped pulses responsible for the greatest orthogonality. The resulting 32 32 space would be a multidimensional analysis that can be acquired in 2 minutes and provide a pattern that can be used to identify the different spores within minutes.

The system of the present invention lends itself to be used for remote detection. The main modification required is the use of a telescope for example a 5 inch Meade ETX 125 Maksutov Cassegrain telescope having a 127 mm clear aperture and 1.9 m focal length to expand the two laser beams and have them focus at the specimen target. The same telescope also collects the signal using the confocal arrangement previously disclosed hereinabove. This setup will permit scaling to longer distances although a system where the signal is acquired by a separate telescope could be alternately employed. The situation where both the shaped pulse and the reference pulse have similar wavelength will further prevent chromatic aberration in the setup and as the lasers and signals propagate through turbulent air. The reference or probe beam can act as a local oscillator and be used for heterodyne detection and amplification of the signal. Alternately show a similar system but without the use of a confocal telescope one telescope is in the excitation path and a second one is in a detection path.

Beyond the selective excitation of a single Raman active vibration it will be possible to excite a number of bands simultaneously. While TL pulses will excite all Raman active vibrations as well as all multiphoton processes pulses which excite two or three of the strongest Raman active vibrations for a particular compound are preferred. It is believed that these types of shaped pulses will provide much greater molecular discrimination than pulses that selectively excite a single Raman band. Experimental phase functions are optimized on a computer at 3 GHz and then transported to the laboratory or field with success. The close correlation between experiments and theory comes from the accuracy of the MII approach. It is believed that as long as the specimen molecule does not undergo fragmentation the off resonance laser molecule interaction will be most strongly influenced through the more intense Raman active modes. Selective excitation using MII and BPS ISRS should also work satisfactorily for intermediately strong excitation. Under intense field excitation the laser molecule interactions are highly nonlinear and it is possible to excite Raman active modes that are clearly outside the bandwidth of the excitation pulse. The selective excitation depended on the intensity and the phase amplitude shaping.

Again one of the advantages of the system and method of the present invention is that it is robust enough to operate in the presence of a complex chemical environment. For example if the environment being monitored is next to many automotive vehicles or a bus stop the unit will detect diesel gasoline and exhaust fumes. Under these conditions it will be imperative to take advantage of the multidimensional properties of the present invention. TL pulses will yield mass spectra with a number of suspect ion masses. However upon further analysis the system will determine that no unacceptable dangerous chemicals are present. If these conditions persist the remote computer will automatically define a background level of contaminants and actively subtract it. The power of multidimensional analysis is extremely valuable if a mixture of chemical agents is present. The present invention system would have no problems determining which chemicals are present even under these adverse conditions. Finally if a new chemical threat is developed by a terrorist group the command center can update all the systems in the field with a new library that contains the spectrometric signature that is obtained by multidimensional laser interrogation of that compound. The addition to the library would take less than a day to generate in the laboratory and would be available for immediate use by the monitoring systems upon upload.

One laser and detector system creates the library. That unit is in a laboratory and is capable of handling nasty chemicals. The other field system is compact and automated and uses the libraries prepared by the first system. The second system can be compact and is field transportable. Both systems have fs laser shaper miips binary shaping computer controller. The only difference is that one is used to generate the library in a laboratory setting. The other one is fully automated and field deployable. The field system is made to be a closed box that requires minimum maintenance.

The preferred embodiment hardware of an apparatus for use with the laser system is generally shown in . This hardware setup is ideally suited for use in an initial laboratory situation to first correlate the desired pulse shapes to best differentiate and identify target molecules in a specimen. Apparatus includes a femtosecond laser an upstream grating an upstream convex mirror a spatial light modulator a downstream concave mirror a downstream grating a detection device and a personal computer . The pulse shaper is the entire optical setup from grating to grating. As will be discussed later the gratings can be replaced by a prism and the spatial light modulator can be a deformable mirror a liquid crystal spatial light modulator or a microelectronic micromechanical system MEMS. The pulse shaper can also be reflective instead of transmissive. Finally the pulse shaper can also be an accousto optic shaper.

Personal computer has a microprocessor based electrical control system memory an output screen a data storage device an input keyboard and a storage disk. More specifically the detection device is a mass spectrometer. Alternatively the detection device is a compact spectrometer with an array detector. Bursts or pulses of a laser beam are emitted from laser through the optics and as well as through the spatial light modulator for detection and sensing by the spectrometer detector device for further evaluation analysis comparison and subsequent control by personal computer .

The laser is preferably an ultra fast femtosecond laser capable of high peak intensity with a typical peak greater than 10watts cm which preferably emits laser beam pulses of less than 100 femtosecond duration and more preferably at or less than 25 femtoseconds and for the environmental monitoring and or Raman active vibrational excitation applications even more preferably as short as 10 femtosecond duration for each pulse burst or shot. The intense optical pulses are formed in a Kerr Lens mode locked titanium sapphire oscillator. Such lasers are capable of producing hundreds of nanometers of coherent bandwidth although only about 50 nm are typically used. The output is amplified in a 1 kHz regenerative chirped pulsed amplifier. The output pulse is typically 100 fs long with a central wavelength of 800 nm and total pulse energy of 0.1 to 1 mJ. Preferred lasers include the Kapteyn and Murnane femtosecond laser oscillator which can produce less than 15 fs pulses at 100 MHz and the Hurricane model from Spectra Physics Inc. which is diode pumped and gives 0.8 mJ per pulse with sub 50 fs pulses at 1 kHz. More compact and less expensive lasers provide another excellent alternative. Among these are the CPA 2001 model from Clark MXR Inc. which gives 1.3 mJ per pulse with sub 150 fs pulses at 1 kHz and the diode pumped Ytterbium laser producing intense 300 fs pulses at 1 kHz. These less expensive and more compact units produce pulses that have narrow bandwidths therefore it is important to use the alternative setup depicted in that pumps a Clark MXR Inc. non collinear parametric amplifier hereinafter NOPA which produces 0.2 mJ per pulse and is capable of generating sub 20 fs pulses. A time of flight mass spectrometer TOF MS or a compact Ocean Optics spectrometer are preferred for detection purposes.

A Fourier plane pulse shaper is preferably used with the present invention for the transmissive construction illustrated with this embodiment. Ultra short laser pulses contain from one to fifty optical cycles and last only a few femtoseconds. This is much faster than most current electronics and therefore shaping with fast time gates is very difficult. On the other hand because of the uncertainty principle the optical spectrum spans tens to hundreds of nanometers. Such a large bandwidth is relatively easy to measure and to filter and there are several techniques to shape the spectrum in the frequency domain and thereby shape the temporal pulse upon recompression.

In order to access the frequency domain and the individual frequency components that comprise the pulse a geometric arrangement is employed using two back to back spectrometers. The spectrometers are especially designed to introduce no net temporal dispersion that is all colors pass through the spectrometers within the same amount of time. The first spectrometer including grating and mirror spreads the unshaped pulse spectrum along a line according to its dispersion function y . The light intercepts spatial amplitude and phase mask spatial light modulator at this point. The mask output then forms the entrance to a second spectrometer including grating and mirror which recombines the colors into a single shaped pulse.

The heart of the pulse shaper is the programmable 256 pixel liquid crystal mask consisting of two overlapping 128 pixel liquid crystal arrays that is placed at the Fourier plane . For the applications envisioned herein the mask must be capable of shifting the phase of individual frequencies. For alternate embodiment pulse shapers a different electronically programmable mask that is capable of controlling phase has been demonstrated a liquid crystal display hereinafter LCD an acousto optic modulator hereinafter AOM a deformable mirror and a permanently deformed mirror. A LCD pulse shaper can be obtained from CRI Co. and has a modulator electronic driver.

The AOM consists of an anti reflection coated Tellurium Dioxide TeO crystal with a piezo electric transducer glued onto one end. The central frequency of the acoustic wave is c 2 200 MHz. The acoustic velocity vs in the crystal is 4.2 km s and the light pulse spends less than 10 ps in the crystal so the acoustic wave moves less than 0.002 acoustic during the transit of the light field through the crystal. Since the acoustic wave is essentially frozen as the optical pulse travels through the crystal the complex amplitude of the acoustic wave traveling through the crystal in the y direction A t cos ct A y vs cos ct is mapped onto the optical field E as it passes through the AOM. If some of the dispersed optical field encounters a weak acoustic wave that frequency is attenuated if the acoustic wave carrier is shifted by phase angle that phase shift is imposed on the optical field. This pulse shaper has a total efficiency of about 20 including the diffraction efficiency of the AOM and the diffraction efficiency of the gratings. The diffracted light is used and the undiffracted zero order beam is blocked to allow full modulation of both amplitude and phase in the shaped beam. The shaped beam then has the form where is the frequency and e is a constant. Fixed pulse shaping optics such as chirped mirrors or permanently etched reflective masks can also be employed. The laser pulses are fed into the pulse shaper where the grating causes dispersion. Curved mirror focuses the spectrum onto Fourier plane . Changes in the phase of the spectral components indicated by the computer are used to tailor the laser pulse before reconstruction with second curved mirror and grating . Once shaped a small portion of the pulse is directed to spectrometer for evaluation and calibration using MIIPS. The greater percentage of the laser for example 95 is sent towards the mass spectrometer for monitoring purposes.

In this embodiment the phase and amplitude masks of the pulse shaper are controlled by the computer wherein the laser pulse shape takes a dynamic role. The microprocessor within personal computer will then control laser receive an essentially real time feedback input signal from the spectrometer and then perform calculations comparisons and evaluations and possibly automatic variation of subsequent pulse shapes. These automated steps can be substituted with manual user calculations and decisions if desired based on personal computer outputs.

As applied to the environmental monitoring applications herein selective control of multiphoton processes in large molecules including proteins is possible using a simple pulse shaping method that is based on taking maximum advantage of the multiphoton intrapulse interference caused in short pulses with large bandwidths and the resulting fluctuations in the electromagnetic pulse. An extraordinary level of control can be achieved that is robust and sample independent with contrast ratios near two orders of magnitude. Such large contrast ratios allow for more precise cancellation control of undesired photons and other laser beam characteristics such that nonlinear transitions induced by each pulse are controlled. Moreover a fs pulse shaper arrangement can be used to achieve selective fragmentation of the sample molecules and this property can be exploited for identification. The details of the underlying technology will be described in greater detail hereinafter. Alternately instead of an LCD SLM to introduce phase functions prestored in the memory unit of the controller phase functions can be incorporated into a passive optical component such as a turret with different static phase masks manufactured on a transparent substrate. The turret can toggle the static phase masks in front of the mirror. A system with such a turret would reduce the complexity and expense of computer controlled LCD SLM. Nevertheless the ability to run a MIIPS test is valuable to make sure that the laser is operating properly thus a computer controller pulse shaper will be preferred for this application.

A multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan hereinafter MIIPS system and method are preferably employed with the present invention system to characterize the spectral phase of the femtosecond laser pulses. The phase across the spectrum of an ultrafast pulse can affect the multiphoton process in a number of ways. Phase can increase the pulse length and hence reduce the peak intensity of the pulse thereby preventing saturation a common result under high intensity excitation. Phase can also be used to synchronize changes in the electric field with intramolecular wave packet dynamics. Finally phase can be used to cause interference in the way multiple frequencies combine to achieve multiphoton excitation. This process is known as multiphoton intrapulse interference hereinafter MII .

The technique of MII and its application to control multiphoton processes is based on rationally designing an electric field required to achieve a particular target with a minimum number of parameters. The method is based on calculating the amplitude of the nth order electric field and comparing it to the absorption spectrum of the molecules being controlled. This provides a strong physical understanding of the control process which can be very useful in the interpretation of experiments where the field is optimized by computer programs based on evolutionary learning or similar methods. For strong field photofragmentation and ionization required for environmental monitoring less is known about the pulse shapes to be used. The preferred method will be to address the molecules through their Raman active vibrations taking advantage of selective ISRS. Determination of the optimum pulse shapes to identify each molecule will be obtained experimentally using a wisdom based learning method that will combine known molecular parameters and maps of the resulting spectra as a function of the binary shaped functions.

Multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan is capable of both pulse characterization and compensation of subsequent pulses. Within minutes the pulses are characterized and compensated to yield transform limited hereinafter TL or user specified shaped pulses at the sample. This capability is important for the reproducibility of the present invention. This will ensure that the pulse shaper and laser are operating within specifications.

MIIPS is a single beam method that does not require an interferometer. To make a precise and accurate measurement of the spectral phase using MIIPS a known phase delay is imposed on the frequencies that make up the pulse using a calibrated pulse shaper. The pulse shaper essentially behaves as two back to back spectrometers. In one variation the pulse emitted by the laser is dispersed with a grating and collimated with a 200 mm cylindrical lens. At the Fourier plane where all the frequencies are isolated their phases are manipulated by a computer controlled. LCD spatial light modulator hereinafter SLM . The SLM applies the reference phase function to the input pulse. The resulting pulse is then retro reflected and reconstituted to the time domain and the output is picked by the mirror. The SLM can be updated every pulse presently limited to 1 kHz . The LCD has a 250 ms response time so in principle it can be updated at 4 kHz. A small percent of the output beam is reflected by a partially reflective mirror and is analyzed by focusing with a lens onto a 0.10 mm thick beta barium borate crystal for second harmonic generation hereinafter SHG in its path usually at the place where optimum pulses are required. The use of the second harmonic is important to the method. The average SHG output is collimated by the second lens and directed to a dispersive spectrometer and detected by a detector array. For each reference phase function that is introduced by the computer controlled SLM a different spectrum is recorded and stored in the computer controller. In a sense the pulse autocorrelates itself at the SHG crystal.

Pulse characterization involves the introduction of a reference phase modulation function of the form cos where is the magnitude of the phase delay is the periodicity is the frequency detuning from the carrier frequency of the pulse and is the position in the spectrum at which the cosine function is equal to one. The reference phase function with typical values 2 and pulse duration is programmed into the SLM and scanned for different values of ranging from 0 to 2 . For each value of the spectrum of the frequency doubled pulse changes achieving a maximum in the spectral region over which the SLM compensates for the phase distortions.

Qualitatively the distance between the diagonal features determines linear chirp while the angle between the features determines the quadratic chirp. The full quantitative determination of the spectral phase by integration can be obtained. Once the MIIPS system has characterized the pulse and retrieved the phase distortions inherent to the pulses it can use that information to drive the SLM such that it compensates for the distortions. The first step in compensation is to take the phase determined from the first scan and program it into the SLM with a negative sign so that it subtracts the distortions. The system carries out a new phase scan to determine the remaining spectral phase modulation usually about 10 of the original . Typically three such iterations will yield transform limited pulses. Because the laser is not focused in the pulse shaper the method can be used with pulses that are relatively high in energy. Pulses ranging from about 10 pJ to about 30 mJ and pulse durations from less than 5 to about 500 fs can be used. Once the pulses are compensated transform limited the laser can be focused to produce peak intensities from about 10to about 10W cm depending on the input energy.

This single beam method is capable of retrieving the magnitude and sign of second and third order phase modulation in other words linear and quadratic chirp directly without iteration or inversion procedures. MIIPS achieves accurate phase retrieval from chirped ultrashort pulses. For MIIPS no synchronous autocorrelation beam splitting or time delays are required because the second harmonic spectrum depends on the relative phases of all frequencies within the pulse. The amplitude of the pulse is obtained directly from a spectrometer in a communications receiver. In order to precisely determine of the phase of all frequency components in a pulse from a femtosecond laser a pulse shaper such as the one described in A. M. Weiner Femtosecond pulse shaping using spatial light modulators Rev. Sci. Instrum. 71 pp. 1929 1960 2000 is employed to introduce a reference phase function designed to yield this information directly as further described hereinafter. The shaped pulses are frequency doubled by a thin SHG crystal and the output is directed to the spectrometer.

The MIIPS method is based on the principle that second harmonic generation as well as other nonlinear optical processes depend on the phase function across the spectrum of the laser pulse. Higher order phase distortions such as self phase modulation and quadratic phase components can be obtained from the curvature of the line defined by the maximum SHG response. The MIIPS can be programmed to find the phase distortions on the laser pulses directly by integration and to introduce a compensation phase function that eliminates the distortions. This mode of operation can be used to find arbitrary phase deformations and yield transform limited pulses which in a MIIPS scan look like straight parallel lines separated by .

The present invention provides a system and method to characterize and compensate for the spectral phase distortion of femtosecond pulses. This single beam method is capable of retrieving the magnitude and sign of linear and quadratic chirp with high resolution. Pulse retrieval is based on analytical expressions that yield the phase distortion without iteration or inversion procedures. Linear and quadratic chirp values and to some extent cubic chirp values are important because there are knobs on the laser that can be used to correct for this distortion by mechanically adjusting the grating spacing in the laser beam amplifier compressor. The method can be used with very short pulses. This adjustment can be automatically controlled with the computer controlled software. The method is very versatile and can be used with high or very low intensity pulses for any wavelength for which low cost off the shelf SHG crystals exist. MIIPS can also be used by obtaining third or higher order harmonics in gases. The maximum signal makes the method useful for the characterization of pulses in wavelength regions for which SHG crystals are not available.

Laser control is dominated by interference between different nonlinear optical pathways connecting the initial and final states. The challenge is finding the proper phase for each frequency within the pulse to achieve constructive interference at the desired pathway and destructive interference elsewhere. To a very good approximation it is sufficient to set the phase of different frequency components of femtosecond pulse to two values separated by . To obtain a very good approximation it is sufficient to set the phase of different frequency components of a femtosecond pulse to two values separated by . The phase between photons of different frequencies takes only two values preferably 0 or to maximize or minimize a given pathway. Any two values whose difference is work equivalently well. This method is defined as binary phase shaping. BPS is preferably used to solve the problem of selective multiphoton excitation with ultrashort laser pulses. The use of a small number of phase values between 3 and 10 is regarded as a trivial extension of our binary approach.

In order to control the behavior of molecules under the intense radiation of a femtosecond laser it is important to modulate the phase of the frequencies within the bandwidth of the pulse. For the invention being described this implies finding the best binary value for each of the spectral components that traverses a discrete region in the shaper corresponding to a pixel. In some shapers the pixel may be discrete as in a liquid crystal or a moving MEMS component. In other cases the pixel may be continuous as a region in an AO crystal or a deformable mirror. The appropriate phases that generate a specific desired outcome that is useful in the identification of a chemical is found using an evolutionary learning calculation and program.

In another variation of the present invention specific phase functions designed to produce a specific time domain fluctuation of the electric field in the time domain will be programmed in the analyzer and the behavior of all chemical agents of interest evaluated for their behavior when interrogated by these specific phase functions. These functions could be introduced as fixed optics produced by etching or other micromachining methods or programmed on 128 pixel SLM or a SLM with greater than 256 pixels.

A titanium sapphire regeneratively amplified laser is preferably employed which can be obtained from Coherent Lasers and it is capable of generating pulses as short as 30 fs. Alternately multipass amplification may be used. The spectral phase of the pulse is tailored using a computer controlled pulse shaper. Preferably the pulses are centered near 800 nm. A Ytterbium laser centered at 1040 nm may alternately be used. The spectral phase of each pulse is corrected using the MII phase scan MIIPS method which compensates phase distortions to obtain transform limited TL pulses. The binary phase is introduced as an addition to the compensation phase. About 1 of the shaped laser pulse intensity with energy 0.003 mJ per pulse and 1 kHz repetition rate is focused to a spot size of 20 microns in diameter on a 100 micron thin beta barium borate BBO type I SHG crystal. The frequency doubled light is collected with an optical fiber and dispersed on a compact spectrometer preferably obtainable from Ocean Optics. This setup is used at regular intervals to ascertain that the laser system and pulse shaper are operating properly. Most of the intensity of the laser beam with energy 0.3 mJ is directed towards the target where it interacts with the sampled air causing photofragmentation and ionization.

The advantage of BPS is that computational redundancies are greatly reduced. For BPS and 128 active pixels the search space is reduced by hundreds of orders of magnitude compared to arbitrary phase and amplitude pulse shaping as discussed above. The resulting space is small enough that a greater percentage of the search space can be evaluated experimentally. A learning feedback method or simple evolutionary learning computer program can quickly converge towards significantly improved solutions. BPS has significant technological advantages. A retardation equivalent to is easy and fast to obtain and calibrate. Permanently etched masks can be made in advance and used for specific applications.

Initially the pulse shaper is programmed for monitoring the environment based on requirements of a library of data stored in memory of the computer. Fast accurate and reproducible monitoring of the environment for chemical and biological agents will not usually permit the pulse shaper to run in an evolutionary learning mode in the field although such field use still falls within the scope of the present invention. Instead a much more efficient mode of operation is used whereby the unit is continuously monitoring the environment with transform limited pulses. Under these circumstances the unit takes a fraction of a second to make preliminary but highly sensitive measurements. In the event that a suspected molecular ion fragment is detected then the unit activates a library search for the pre stored suspected agents and employs a series of pre programmed shaped pulses to make an absolute identification. While in the search mode the unit can speed by three to six orders of magnitude in repetition rate to provide the fastest analysis possible. Because it is using a pre programmed series of shaped pulses the whole identification process can be completed in under a minute.

The wisdom based evolutionary learning program is used in a laboratory setting to define a library of pulses and begins by evaluation of a set of 512 binary phases that are chosen to represent all functions that are possible with 10 groups of pixels. Each pulse shape is tested for its fitness ability to generate the result that most resembles a target selected in advance . The map of fitness as a function of binary phase function reveals important information regarding symmetry and complexity of the search space. New sets of pulse parameters are created by enhancing the resolution near the regions found to have the best fitness parameters. Finally in some cases the best phases can be modified through mutating and recombining via crossover elements of the best of the previous pulse shapes to create new ones survival of the fittest . This basic series of processes is iterated and the fitness converges toward a best value.

In simple terms the role of the pulse shaper is to advance or retard individual frequencies within a laser pulse by a factor of . For example in a TL pulse all the frequencies are locked and have net zero retardation. In this case the spectral phase is flat. The pulse shaper can be used on a TL pulse to make some frequencies arrive before others. In these general terms a pulse shaper can be defined by a number of parameters input bandwidth frequency resolution and maximum retardance. The spectral resolution of a pulse shaper setup is determined at the Fourier plane where the pulse is resolved in the frequency domain. The phase retardation must be calibrated and checked for accuracy and reproducibility. This step will be done by MIIPS as described earlier.

Once the shaping unit is calibrated it is imperative that the pulse shaper compensates the phase deformations in the femtosecond laser system. Even under ideal conditions a commercial femtosecond laser produces pulses with phase deformations that are primarily quadratic or cubic in the frequency domain. Multiphoton Intrapulse interference phase scan automatically determines the spectral phase deformations and compensates for them. Within a minute the phase distortions are eliminated and TL pulses are obtained. The MIIPS method is believed to be at least one order of magnitude more accurate than alternative methods commercially available. The shaper calibration described above together with accurate phase characterization and compensation provided by MIIPS are important steps that are believed to ensure the robustness and reproducibility sought by the system of the present invention.

The present invention system depends on the identification of certain shaped laser fields that will produce different uniquely identifiable fingerprints from each chemical or biological compound. The search for these shaped laser fields requires the search of a large parameter space using the evolutionary learning program. BPS reduces the search space and drastically increases the reproducibility. Each chemical will be interrogated by the focused shaped laser field. The spectrum resulting from the nonlinear laser molecule interaction will be recorded and compared to others. The wisdom based evolutionary learning program will have a search target and will determine the shape that best approaches the target. The ability of strong shaped laser fields to influence the nonlinear laser molecule interaction is utilized in order to find uniquely identifying pulses shapes for each molecule. Because laser molecule control depends on the electronic and nuclear structure of the molecule no two compounds would yield the same results.

The adaptive laser source may be part of a learning feedback method that modifies the laser pulse shape based on its success at optimizing the yield of charged agents which may include chemicals or proteins. In the present application the laser pulse shape takes a dynamic role. The physical process runs itself by an intelligent feedback method by means of an intelligent loop. The learning method tries various pulse shapes assesses their success in achieving the desired target excitation and uses the knowledge gained in this way to improve the pulse shapes on subsequent laser shots all with only minimal intervention of the researcher or system user. Changing conditions are automatically corrected within the learning method or feedback loop. The details of the software used in the evolutionary learning program are discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 884 798 entitled Laser System Using Ultra Short Laser Pulses filed on Jul. 2 2004 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Another embodiment of the present invention uses a system shown as in for laser excitation or ionization with photodynamic therapy hereinafter PDT including selective Raman active vibrational excitation of target molecules. PDT is a treatment that involves the combination of visible light and a photosensitizer. Each factor is harmless by itself but when combined with oxygen can produce lethal cytotoxic agents that can inactivate tumor cells. This enables greater selectivity towards diseased tissue as only those cells that are simultaneously exposed to the photosensitizer light and oxygen are exposed to the cytotoxic effect. The dual selectivity of PDT is produced by both a preferential uptake of the photosensitizer by the diseased tissue and the ability to confine activation of the photosensitizer to this diseased tissue by restricting the illumination to that specific region. Therefore PDT allows for the selective destruction of tumors while leaving normal tissue intact.

PDT is based on the concept that 1 certain photosensitizers can be localized somewhat preferentially in neoplastic tissue and 2 subsequently these photosensitizers can be activated with the appropriate wavelength energy of light to generate active molecular species such as free radicals and singlet oxygen O that are toxic to cells and tissues. PDT is a binary therapy and a potential advantage of PDT is its inherent dual selectivity. First selectivity is achieved by an increased concentration of the photosensitizer in target tissue and second the irradiation can be limited to a specified volume. Provided that the photosensitizer is nontoxic only the irradiated areas will be affected even if the photosensitizer does bind to normal tissues. Selectivity can be further enhanced by binding photosensitizers to molecular delivery systems that have high affinity for target tissue. Traditionally the wavelength of light is matched to the electronic absorption spectrum of the photosensitizer so that photons are absorbed by the photosensitizer and the desired photochemistry can occur. This poses a number of problems because the laser causes activation outside the focal region. This limitation can be overcome by nonlinear excitation. Except in special situations where the lesions being treated are very superficial the range of activating light is typically between 600 and 900 nm. This is because endogenous molecules in particular hemoglobin strongly absorb light below 600 nm and therefore capture most of the incoming photons. The net effect would be the impairment of penetration of the activating light through the tissue. The reason for the 900 nm upper limit is that energetics beyond this wavelength are insufficient to produce O the activated state of oxygen perhaps critical for successful PDT.

Upon illumination the photosensitizer is excited from the ground state S to the first excited single state S followed by conversion to the triplet state T via intersystem crossing. The longer lifetime of the triplet state enables the interaction of the excited photosensitizer with the surrounding molecules and it is generally accepted that the generation of the cytotoxic species produced during PDT occurs whilst in this state.

The excited triplet state can react in two ways defined as Type I and Type II mechanisms. A Type I mechanism involves hydrogen atom abstraction or electron transfer reactions between the excited state of the sensitizer and a substrate that is either biological a solvent or another sensitizer to yield free radicals and radical ions. These free radical species are generally highly reactive and can readily interact with molecular oxygen to either generate reactive oxygen species such as superoxide anions or hydroxyl radicals or can cause irreparable biological damage. These reactions produce oxidative damage that is eventually expressed as biological lesions. By contrast a Type II mechanism results from an energy transfer between the excited triplet state of the sensitizer and the ground state molecular oxygen generating the first excited state of oxygen singlet oxygen. This zwitterionic species is extremely reactive and can interact with a large number of biological substrates inducing oxidative damage and ultimately cell death. While it is generally accepted that Type II processes predominate during PDT and that singlet oxygen is the primary cytotoxic agent responsible for the biological effects displayed Type I reactions become more important at low oxygen concentrations or in more polar environments. However the initial reaction is of lesser importance as both Type I and Type II reactions lead to similar oxidative damage and comparable free radical chain reactions in the presence of oxygen. The overall effect of either a Type I or Type II reaction pathway is the production of oxidative damage within the target cell that will ultimately lead to tumor destruction. Under special circumstances short pulse high intensities of irradiation the upper excited states may be populated and complex photophysical and photochemical processes may originate from these states resulting in increased or decreased phototoxicity which may include oxygen independent mechanisms such as DNA mutation.

Photosensitizers are compounds that are capable of absorbing light of a specific wavelength and transforming it into useful energy. In the case of PDT this would involve the production of lethal cytotoxic agents. There are hundreds of natural and synthetic dyes that can function as photosensitizers for PDT ranging from plant abstracts to complex synthetic macrocycles. The key characteristic of any photosensitizer is its ability to preferentially accumulate in diseased tissue and to then generate cytotoxic agents to induce the desired biological effect. Examples of such photosensitizers can be found in W. M. Sharman et al. Photodynamic therapy basic principles and clinical applications Drug Discovery Today 4 11 508 517 1999 T. Hasan et al. Photodynamic Therapy Of Cancer Chapter 40 in Holland Frei Cancer Medicine BC Dekker Inc. 2003 W. M. Sharman et al. Targeted photodynamic therapy via receptor mediated delivery systems Adv. Drug Delivery Rev. 56 1 53 76 January 2004 and Roy I. et al. Ceramic based nanoparticles entrapping water soluble photosensitizing drugs A novel drug carrier system for photodynamic therapy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 7860 7865 2003 .

The hardware of system employs a femtosecond laser which emits multiple laser beam pulses a computer and a binary pulse shaper which allows two photon excitations but essentially prevents three photon excitation. Laser emits a laser beam pulse shorter than 1 picosecond. Shaper is made of two dispersive elements which sandwich a phase mask element. Excitation of the PDT therapy agent takes place through two photon excitation. The nonlinear excitation process prevents the laser from damaging tissue outside the focal region. Two photon transitions are optimally controlled using MII and binary phase shaped pulses as described earlier. The shaped pulses from the pulse shaper enhance the laser induced activity of a therapeutic agent at a cancerous area but which prevents damage of healthy tissue . Use of laser beam pulse shaping of the present invention should provide superior control and results for PDT applications as compared to those practically possible with conventional methods as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 042 603 entitled Method for Improved Selectivity in Photo Activation of Molecular Agents which issued to Fisher et al. on Mar. 28 2000 which is incorporated by reference herein. Alternately the pulse shaper can be tuned to target cancerous cells for multiphoton gene therapy or destruction with or without the presence of a therapeutic agent without damaging healthy tissue. The MII BPS and ISRS processes that are possible on femtosecond systems that are compensated by MIIPS discussed hereinafter can be advantageously used to activate only certain pharmaceuticals or chemicals or used to allow the laser pulse to enter human or animal tissue to a known depth based on the phase tuning and associated nonlinear spectrum tuning of the laser beam pulse. The pulse shaper is used to prevent three photon and higher order nonlinear optical processes such as continuum generation. Higher order processes usually lead to sample degradation and in the case of living samples to DNA damage. Suppression of three photon transitions of four orders of magnitude has been achieved using the MII and BPS methods and this suppression can be coupled with optimization of two photon signal from living specimens.

Finally reference should be made to . The alternate embodiment system shown includes a laser pulse shaper and computer controller like the prior PDT embodiment. The shaped laser beam pulse however targets blood so the computer controller can automatically identify impurities therein. Such impure molecules may include hepatitis HIV or other undesired contaminants. The system may then be used to destroy or sterilize the blood by ionizing such contaminants with one or a series of shaped fs laser beam pulses.

While various embodiments have been disclosed herein it should be appreciated that other modifications may be made that are covered by the system and methods of the present invention. For example alternate lasers chemicals optics computer controllers and remote devices can be employed as long as they function as described. The description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and thus variations that do not depart from the gist of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention.

