---

title: Capacitive chemical sensor
abstract: A microfabricated capacitive chemical sensor can be used as an autonomous chemical sensor or as an analyte-sensitive chemical preconcentrator in a larger microanalytical system. The capacitive chemical sensor detects changes in sensing film dielectric properties, such as the dielectric constant, conductivity, or dimensionality. These changes result from the interaction of a target analyte with the sensing film. This capability provides a low-power, self-heating chemical sensor suitable for remote and unattended sensing applications. The capacitive chemical sensor also enables a smart, analyte-sensitive chemical preconcentrator. After sorption of the sample by the sensing film, the film can be rapidly heated to release the sample for further analysis. Therefore, the capacitive chemical sensor can optimize the sample collection time prior to release to enable the rapid and accurate analysis of analytes by a microanalytical system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08736000&OS=08736000&RS=08736000
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08736000
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061019
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to chemical sensing and in particular to a microfabricated capacitive chemical sensor that can use parallel plate or fringing field electrodes to measure the concentration of a chemical species in a gaseous or liquid environment by detecting the change in the dielectric properties of a chemically sensitive dielectric material film.

Chemical sensors are routinely used for the detection of various gases chemicals moisture organic impurities etc. in an ambient environment. Chemical sensors combine a chemically sensitive interface which sorbs chemical species i.e. analytes from the environment with a physical transducer that provides an electrical output proportional to the amount of sorbed species. Typical microfabricated chemical sensors comprise a thin layer of a material that is sensitive to the concentration of a target chemical species present in the ambient atmosphere. For example the interaction of a chemical species with the sensitive material layer can change the materials conductivity dielectric constant or effective thickness which can be transduced into an electrical output signal that is related to the concentration of the chemical in the ambient environment. Although many microfabricated chemical sensors exist for this purpose a need remains for an autonomous selective and sensitive microfabricated chemical sensor that can be used in remote locations.

Portable handheld microanalytical systems are also being developed to enable the rapid and sensitive detection of particular chemicals including pollutants high explosives and chemical and biological warfare agents. Current gas phase microanalytical systems typically comprise a gas chromatography column to separate the chemical species or analytes in a gas sample and a detector to identify the separated species. Such microanalytical systems can also include a chemical preconcentrator for sample collection. The chemical preconcentrator serves the important function of collecting and concentrating the chemical analytes on a sorptive material at the inlet of the microanalytical system. The chemical preconcentrator can deliver an extremely sharp sample plug to the downstream gas chromatograph by taking advantage of the rapid efficient heating of the sorbed analytes with a low heat capacity low loss microhotplate. The very narrow temporal plug improves separations and therefore the signal to noise ratio and sensitivity to the particular chemical species of interest.

Previous microfabricated chemical preconcentrators have typically used a heated planar membrane suspended from a substrate as the microhotplate wherein the sorptive material is disposed as a layer on a surface of the membrane to sorb the chemical species from a gas stream. The sorptive material thereby collects and concentrates the sample and then the heated membrane thermally desorbs the sample in a short pulse for subsequent separation. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378 to Manginell et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically samples are collected by the preconcentrator for a fixed period of time e.g. 2 minutes before they are released for analyte separation and identification. Collecting for a fixed time period is a fundamental shortcoming of the chemical analysis process. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 903 329 to Manginell et al. filed Jul. 29 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference. When concentrations of potential toxins are high precious time is wasted collecting excess sample material. Furthermore this excess material will often saturate the preconcentrator and overwhelm a detector necessitating cleaning before further analysis can resume. Conversely when target analyte concentrations in the sample stream are low insufficient analyte may be collected for detection or proper identification. To avoid these problems a smart analyte sensitive chemical preconcentrator that actively measures the change in the sorptive material s conductivity dielectric constant or effective thickness during the collection process is needed.

The present invention provides a microfabricated capacitive chemical sensor that can be used as an autonomous chemical sensor or as an analyte sensitive chemical preconcentrator in a larger microanalytical system. The capacitive chemical sensor detects changes in the sensing film dielectric properties such as the dielectric constant conductivity and dimensionality. These changes result from the interaction of a target analyte with the sensing dielectric film. This capability provides a low power self heating chemical sensor suitable for remote and unattended sensing applications. The capacitive chemical sensor also enables a smart analyte sensitive chemical preconcentrator. After sorption of the sample by the sensing dielectric film the film can be rapidly heated to release the sample for further analysis. Therefore the capacitive chemical sensor can optimize the sample collection time prior to release to enable the rapid and accurate analysis of analytes by a microanalytical system.

The present invention is directed to a parallel plate capacitive chemical sensor for detecting a chemical in a gas or liquid environment comprising a substrate having an electrically insulating suspended membrane formed thereon a lower electrode disposed on a surface of the suspended membrane a chemically sensitive dielectric film formed on the lower electrode an upper electrode formed on the dielectric film and means for detecting the mutual capacitance between the upper and lower electrodes wherein the mutual capacitance detected is changed when the dielectric film absorbs the chemical from the environment. Access holes can be provided in the upper electrode to facilitate the absorption of the chemical from the environment by the dielectric film.

The present invention is further directed to a fringing field capacitive chemical sensor for detecting a chemical in a gas or liquid environment comprising a substrate having an electrically insulating suspended membrane formed thereon interdigitated electrodes comprising a periodic pattern of one or more sets of opposing in plane microelectrodes disposed on a surface of the suspended membrane a chemically sensitive dielectric film formed on the interdigitated electrodes and means for detecting the mutual capacitance between the opposing parallel in plane electrode fingers wherein the mutual capacitance detected is changed when the dielectric film absorbs the chemical from the environment.

Either chemical sensor can further comprise a resistive heating element disposed on a side of the suspended membrane to control the temperature of the membrane. Typically the substrate can be silicon and the suspended membrane can be silicon nitride. The chemically sensitive dielectric film can be for example a sol gel oxide polymer nanoporous carbon or ensemble of nanoparticles.

The chemical sensors can provide autonomous selective and sensitive chemical sensing for remote or unattended operation. Dielectric films can be chosen that chemically react with target analytes to produce changes in the capacitance of the sensor. Reactions can vary from simple compound formation to etching to selective cleaving of functional groups. Such reactions would produce similar or greater film impedance shifts when compared to simple adsorption. Further sensor heating allows control of thermally sensitive reaction and adsorption mechanisms. By maintaining a preselected set point temperature preferential adsorption or reaction can be enhanced to provide for additional analyte selectivity and signal control. Additionally heating enables the sensor to be cleaned by thermally desorbing unwanted species. This periodic cleaning may extend the sensor s operational lifetime. The analyte chemical film reaction adsorption mechanism can occur independent of the system s power status or in the case of a reaction requiring membrane heating with extremely low power output. For more remote or power limited applications the sensor could power on to perform a full impedance measurement only if interrogated by the user. In this way the sensor would act as an integrator to monitor long term analyte concentrations while managing its energy supply.

When used as an analyte sensitive chemical preconcentrator the sensor can adsorb target analytes similar to a conventional chemical preconcentrator but the electrodes enable interrogation of the dielectric film to determine the relative amount of adsorbed species as well as their type. The advantages of this capability include optimized or reduced total system analysis time assurance that analyte concentrations are within the system detector s linear regime and protection of the system detector from analyte overloading. Therefore such a preconcentrator can cue the microanalytical system when the film s capacitance shift reaches desired levels and the analytes can be desorbed from the film by a rapid high temperature thermal pulse. In this way the microanalytical system can be optimized for performance or for rapid analysis time.

In is shown a conceptual illustration of a parallel plate capacitive sensor comprising a dielectric material sandwiched between opposing parallel plate electrodes and disposed on an electrically insulating substrate . A voltage source not shown is connected to the driving electrode and the sensing electrode is connected to the input of an impedance measuring circuit not shown . Field lines go from the positive electrode to the negative electrode . Oscillating signals from an alternating current voltage source can be input to the driving electrode to establish an alternating electric field between the driving and sensing electrodes and . The sensing electrode detects the mutual capacitance between the two electrodes and . The mutual capacitance C of a parallel plate capacitor is given by where A is the area of the plates d is the distance between the plates is the permittivity constant and is the dielectric constant of the material between the plates. When used as a sensor changes in the mutual capacitance can be related to changes in the dielectric constant of the dielectric material . In turn changes to the dielectric constant can be induced by changes in the physical chemical or structural properties of the dielectric material .

In is shown a top view schematic illustration of a millimeter sized parallel plate capacitive chemical sensor that can be fabricated using techniques known to the semiconductor integrated circuit IC and microelectromechanical systems MEMS industries. In is shown a side view schematic illustration of the chemical sensor . The chemical sensor comprises a biologically or chemically sensitive dielectric material sandwiched between opposing parallel plate electrodes and disposed on an electrically insulating thin membrane . The membrane is suspended from a substrate . The lower electrode can be an electrically conducting thin film deposited on the membrane . The dielectric material can be a thin film deposited or otherwise coated on the lower electrode . The upper electrode can be an electrically conducting thin film deposited on the dielectric thin film . An alternating current voltage source can be connected between the upper electrode and the lower electrode . The electrodes and can be connected to an impedance measuring circuit not shown to detect the mutual capacitance between the two electrodes and . In particular chemically induced changes in the dielectric properties of the thin film material and therefore changes in the mutual capacitance can be detected. The upper electrode can further comprise a plurality of access holes to facilitate the interaction of the dielectric material with gas liquid or chemicals from the environment to be sensed. The chemical sensor can further comprise a resistive heating element disposed on a side of the membrane . As shown the resistive heating element can comprise a circuitous metal trace disposed on the side of the membrane opposite the dielectric thin film . The resistive heating element can maintain the membrane at a constant temperature when current is provided by an electrical power source. The thin membrane thermally and physically isolates the resistive heating element and parallel plate electrodes and from the substrate and the electrical power and voltage sources. Electrical contact to the resistive heating element and the electrodes and can be established with perimeter bond pads not shown .

In is shown a conceptual illustration of a fringing field capacitive sensor comprising a dielectric film disposed on coplanar electrodes and disposed on an electrically insulating substrate . A voltage source not shown is connected to the driving electrode and the sensing electrode is connected to the input of an impedance measuring circuit not shown . A fringing electric field penetrates into the dielectric film . Curved field lines go from the positive electrode to the negative electrode . The penetration depth is proportional to the distance between the driving and sensing electrodes and . In particular changes in the dielectric constant of the film closest to the surface of the electrodes has the greatest effect on the field distribution. Oscillating signals from an alternating current voltage source can be input to the driving electrode to establish an alternating fringing electric field between the electrodes and .

An advantage of the fringing field sensor is that only single sided access to the film is required leaving the other side exposed to the environment to be sensed. Changing the dielectric properties of the material changes the mutual capacitance between the electrodes and . The change in dielectric properties can result from a change in the geometry or structure of the film and or a change in the dielectric constant of the film material itself. These changes can include changes in the thickness density structure temperature chemical composition or moisture content of the film. For example the thinning of a high dielectric constant film reduces the effective dielectric constant of the material above the electrodes and thereby decreasing the mutual capacitance between the electrodes and . The output electrode detects the mutual capacitance between the two electrodes and . A signal which represents the change in the mutual capacitance is input to the impedance measuring circuit which can provide an output voltage that is related to the change in the dielectric properties of the film .

In is shown a top view schematic illustration of a millimeter sized fringing field capacitive chemical sensor . In is shown a side view schematic illustration of the chemical sensor . The fringing field capacitive chemical sensor comprises a dielectric film disposed on interdigitated electrodes and disposed on an electrically insulating membrane . The membrane is suspended from a substrate . The interdigitated electrodes and comprise a periodic pattern of one or more sets of opposing parallel in plane electrode fingers. Multiple opposing fingers increase the effective length and therefore build up the capacitance associated with the electric fields that penetrate into the dielectric film . Other electrode geometries that comprise coplanar microelectrodes and can generate fringing electric fields can also be used. For example the interdigitated electrodes can comprise opposing concentric in plane ring electrodes. The dielectric material can be a thin film deposited or coated on the interdigitated electrodes and . An alternating current voltage source can be connected between the electrode and the opposing interdigitated electrode . The electrodes and can be connected to an impedance measuring circuit not shown to detect the mutual capacitance between the two electrodes and . In particular chemically induced changes in the dielectric properties of the material can be detected as changes in the mutual capacitance between the electrodes and . The single sided access of the fringing field chemical sensor facilitates the interaction of gas liquid or chemicals from the environment with the exposed side of the film . The sensor can further comprise a resistive heating element disposed on a side on the membrane . The thin membrane thermally and physically isolates the resistive heating element and the interdigitated electrodes and from the substrate . As shown the resistive heating element can comprise a circular metal trace disposed around the periphery of a circular dielectric film . The resistive heating element can maintain the dielectric film at a constant temperature. The circular heater geometry confines the high thermal gradients to the outer edges of the membrane and creates a fairly uniform temperature across the interdigitated electrodes and . The power requirements for temperature control using this heater geometry are very low.

A capacitive chemical sensor can be formed by a fabrication method similar to that for the chemical preconcentrator disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378. The processing steps include material deposition photolithography masking etching mask stripping and cleaning and are generally well known in the IC and MEMS industries. The fabrication of the parallel plate capacitive chemical sensor comprises the steps of forming a suspended membrane on a substrate forming a lower electrode on the membrane forming a chemically sensitive dielectric thin film on the lower electrode and forming an upper electrode on the dielectric thin film . Access holes can further be formed in the upper electrode . The fabrication of the fringing field capacitive chemical sensor comprises the steps of forming a suspended membrane on a substrate forming interdigitated electrodes and on the suspended membrane and forming a chemically sensitive dielectric film on the interdigitated electrodes and . For either sensor or a resistive heating element or can further be formed on either side of the suspended membrane or .

The substrate generally comprises a semiconductor e.g. silicon or gallium arsenide or a dielectric e.g. a glass quartz fused silica a plastic or a ceramic with a thickness generally about 400 500 m. The step of forming the suspended membrane comprises depositing a film on the surface of the substrate and removing material from the substrate underneath a portion of the deposited film. This removal can be done using either anisotropic wet etching e.g. with potassium hydroxide or by reactive ion etching or by a combination of both types of etching. The suspended membrane is typically formed as a rectangle or polygon with lateral dimensions from about one to a few millimeters on a side e.g. a square of 1 3 mm on a side or alternatively as a circle or ellipse with a size from one to a few millimeters. The suspended membrane is supported at its edges by attachment to the substrate. The membrane can be sufficiently thick generally about 0.5 1 m total thickness for robustness as required for handling and to support the electrodes dielectric material and resistive heating element. Additionally the membrane can be sufficiently robust to withstand any stress induced by a mismatch in thermal expansion coefficients of the membrane and the supporting substrate upon heating to a constant temperature. Low pressure chemically vapor deposited silicon nitride is a preferred membrane material due to its low stress low thermal conductivity low heat capacity and compatibility with IC processing steps. The low thermal conductivity minimizes heat loss to the substrate. Other materials such as polycrystalline silicon silicon oxynitride and silicon carbide can also be used to form the membrane.

Prior to release thin film parallel plate or interdigitated electrodes can be patterned on the suspended membrane using e beam evaporation. Various metals or doped semiconductors can be used for the electrodes. The interdigitated electrodes can be made relatively thick to allow easy charge migration along the electrodes and to increase the effective capacitance. For example the finger thickness and electrode spacing of the interdigitated electrodes can range from a few to tens of microns. For example the electrodes can typically comprise about 5000 of Au with a 100 Cr adhesion layer patterned on the membrane.

By applying a chemically sensitive dielectric film over the membrane analytes of interest can be selectively adsorbed from gasses flowing over the device. The types of sensing dielectric films and their characteristics can vary based on the intended application. Sensing films are preferably thermally stable electrically insulating and low stress. While electrically conducting films can be used such films would require insulation layers between the electrodes and the film to prevent electrical shorting. The stress state of the film is preferably sufficiently low during application and use that the structural integrity of the suspended membrane is not compromised. The thickness of such dielectric films is generally on the scale of several thousand angstroms. Extremely thin films will not be adequately sampled by the electrical fringing field while thicker films may isolate the chemical dielectric material interface from interrogation by the electrical fringing field.

Films can be deposited through a variety of techniques such as sputtering vapor deposition spray coating drop coating or self assembling chemistries. Appropriate dielectric films for deposition comprise polymers porous sol gels oxides nanoporous carbon NPC and nanoparticles. The use of polymers sol gels or oxides for selective coatings is well known to those having skill in the art. NPC coatings can be deposited using a pulsed laser deposition process. These films are nanocrystalline to amorphous forms of graphite and have extremely high surface area and an affinity for a wide variety of chemical compounds. NPC is chemically inert has no to low stress and is thermally stable to over 600 C. See M. P. Siegal et al. 80 3940 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Nanoparticle films are another suitable film material. First a small ensemble of nanoparticles can be assembled between microelectrodes. Once the particles are in place the ensemble of nanoparticles can be stabilized using surfactant capping agent replacement and crosslinking methodology. With this methodology the capping agents on a nanoparticle are completely or partially substituted with other tighter binding ligands. Once the ensemble is crosslinked the sensor can be used in both liquid and gas sensing applications. To increase the sensitivity of the ensemble the crosslinking ligands can be conjugated molecules with an analyte specific binding group or chemistry. By employing conjugated molecules to bridge the nanoparticles the interparticle conduction mechanism can be dominated by the bridging ligand provided the remaining capping agent molecules are nonconductive and the orbitals of the bridging ligand are energetically favorable for influencing electron transfer. Binding of an analyte molecule to one of the bridging ligands will change its charge transport properties. This change in charge transport can be measured electrically and an analyte concentration can be determined. The mechanism of impedance change is based on changes in the organic bridging molecules this is fundamentally different than currently employed swelling mechanisms. Additionally if there is a specific electrical response perhaps a specific impedance change at a characteristic frequency or a distinctive current voltage or IV curve then there exists a built in verification or analyte identity check. The sensitivity of the sensor can be tuned by controlling the extent of the percolation path generated during the crosslinking step. A limited number of percolation paths would increase the sensitivity of the sensor while an ensemble of particles with a large number of paths would respond a wider range of analyte concentrations before saturating. Employing multiple identically functionalized sensors but with different numbers of nanoparticles or nanoparticles crosslinking units can improve the analyte discrimination and concentration determination and redundancy. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 157 011 to Wheeler et al. filed Jun. 20 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The resistive heating element generally can comprise one or more circular or circuitous metal traces formed from one or more layers of deposited metals including platinum molybdenum titanium chromium palladium gold and tungsten that can be patterned on either side of the membrane. An optional temperature sensor can be located on the membrane proximate to the resistive heating element to aid in controlling and measuring the temperature of the dielectric thin film.

The chemical sensor can further comprise low power signal processing and signal amplifying CMOS. Integrating CMOS on a silicon substrate increases sensor sensitivity and provides an extremely low level impedance measurement of analytes.

An example that illustrates the chemical sensor s versatility and the utility of active temperature control is as a hydrogen fluoride HF detector. Current technology for the detection of HF vapor is inappropriate for unattended and especially remote deployment. In particular current HF detectors lack the low power requirements and small footprint necessary for unattended operation.

A fringing field capacitive chemical sensor of the type shown in was used to detect elevated levels of HF in various environments. The fringing field capacitive HF sensor comprised a set of interdigitated electrodes a chemically selective dielectric film deposited over the interdigitated electrodes and a circular resistive heating element with a temperature control circuit to control humidity on the film. Silicon nitride was used as the sensor membrane material due to its low thermal conductivity robustness and resistance to HF attack. A KOH etching step was used to dissolve the silicon on the underside of the membrane which released the SiN. The membrane measured approximately 2.2 mm on a side when completely released. The selective dielectric film was comprised of silicon dioxide SiO . HF has a strong reactivity with SiO which is the primary component of the dielectric film and results in the removal of the SiO. The removal of this film occurs regardless of the sensor s power status and can be measured as a shift in capacitance. The HF SiOreaction mechanism however is highly dependent on ambient humidity and so humidity regulation by active temperature control may be required to maintain optimized sensor response. Failure to regulate humidity produces a variable reaction rate which may make it difficult to determine the correct HF concentration in an ambient environment. However the membrane temperature needs to be regulated by only about 5 10 C. The power requirements were typically only a few tens of mW. This enables the sensor to operate in an extremely low power integrator mode to establish the presence of HF over a long time duration. The reduced power requirement and system size enables the chemical sensor to perform in remote environments.

A variety of different techniques were used to deposit the sensing dielectric SiOfilm. These techniques included a nebulizer an ultrasonic nozzle a micropipette and plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD . The first three techniques were used to deposit a sol gel which is a suspension of SiOparticles in a solvent. As the solvent evaporates it creates a highly porous structure not unlike glass foam. By controlling solvent concentration and evaporation the porosity of the solid film can be controlled. The final technique PECVD can deposit a pure solid oxide on the sensor surface. This oxide is much denser than a sol gel and does not feature a high porosity. The primary advantage of the PECVD technique is the better control of oxide thickness across the wafer and between wafers.

The nebulizer sprays the film by entraining the sol gel liquid in a pressurized stream of nitrogen or air and a shadow mask can be used to define the film coverage over the interdigitated electrodes. The nebulizer creates a wide variation in droplet size which results in a very rough irregular surface and a large run to run variation in the film thickness. The advantage of such a film is that it provides an ample supply of nucleation sites for water condensation. The high porosity of sol gels as well as the oxide s affinity for moisture causes humidity to adsorb into the film and line the pore walls. This results in moisture being trapped into the film which can facilitate the HF etching reaction even in low humidity environments.

The micropipette produces a film by using pressurized nitrogen or air to force a tightly controlled droplet of sol gel through a pipette onto the sensor surface. This technique enables good volume control but the placement of the droplet can be difficult.

Ultrasonic nozzle deposition uses ultrasonic agitation of a liquid reservoir to create precise repeatable droplets. These droplets leave the nozzle tip with an extremely low velocity. The low velocity droplet greatly reduces overspray which is the tendency for a droplet to splash when it hits a surface. This allows for well defined films with more exact definition. Due to the repeatability of droplet formation and non clogging nature of this nozzle the film morphology and thickness appear to be more repeatable than those deposited via nebulizer.

The PECVD oxide is deposited by using a vapor which condenses across the wafer surface. The deposition takes place between 250 350 C. the higher the temperature the denser and less porous the film. The film thickness is primarily a function of deposition time. This enables repeatable and controllable film thickness across the interdigitated electrode surface. After the film is deposited a photolithography step defines the oxide and a liquid HF dip is used to precisely pattern the oxide over the interdigitated electrode. The oxide is much denser than the sol gel which provides an order of magnitude larger capacitance increase of the sensor. While the capacitance of sol gel films are measured in the hundreds of femtofarads oxide films are measured in the picofarads. The disadvantage of depositing the sensing film in this manner is the relatively low porosity when compared to a sol gel. This lower porosity reduces the surface area available for HF to react with and the amount of ambient moisture that can be resident in the film.

HF is a long lasting compound that is one of the most stable forms of fluorine in the atmosphere. HF is a caustic gas that is known to have deleterious health affects on humans. HF tends to form a fog and sink to ground level due to its higher density than air. It also readily mixes with atmospheric water vapor to form hydrofluoric acid. HF detection using the fringing field capacitive chemical sensor depends on the chemical transduction of gaseous HF to a change in capacitance of the sensor. Therefore an understanding of the HF SiOreaction mechanism is important to understanding the sensor s operation. Fortunately the basic reaction mechanism is well documented due to use of HF in the semiconductor industry to remove SiOduring microelectronic processing. See Nobuhiro Miki et al. Gas phase selective etching of native oxide 37 1 107 1990 and C. R. Helms et al. Mechanisms of the HF HO vapor phase etching of SiO10 4 806 1992 .

Atmospheric HF reacts with the SiOon the sensor s surface to remove the oxide and hence produce a capacitive shift. This shift results because the dielectric constant of SiOis approximately a factor of four larger than that of the surrounding air. There are three primary chemical reactions that govern this HF SiOreaction SiO 4HF SiF 2HO 1 SiO 6HF HSiF 2HO 2 HSiF 2HF SiF 3 Reactions 1 and 3 are reversible. These reversibilities have important consequences for high humidity etching and HF recycling at the SiOsurface respectively.

A fixture of inert plastic was machined to hold the sensor while it was being exposed to HF. O rings were used to seal the gas flow within the fixture so that only the membrane area of the device was exposed to the gas. Outside the O ring electrical connections for the heater and interdigitated electrodes were made using pogo pins. A gas handling system was constructed to meter HF to the test fixture. The HF for testing came from a gas cylinder that was a custom mix of 110 ppm anhydrous HF in nitrogen. The flow of this mix was controlled via pressure regulators and needle valves. A separate gas line flowing house air was also installed as part of the system. The air was pushed through a bubbler tube to controllably humidify the air and was metered using a mass flow controller into a T junction with the HF mixture. The combined gas flow then went through the test fixture. Test points were included throughout the system to calibrate gas flow and test the gas mixture s humidity. A temperature control circuit was used to regulate the membrane s temperature thereby to control the water layer on the oxide coating. The circuit operated in a feedback mode that maintained the resistance and therefore the temperature of the sensor s heater at a user defined set point. To make sensor measurements a laptop computer was coupled with an impedance analyzer. Analyzer readings were performed at an AC frequency of between 300 500 kHz and the decoupled resistance and capacitance measurements were recorded into a database along with a time stamp of when the reading was taken. Data points were averaged 256 times and were taken in 30 sec. to 2 min. intervals.

Initial experiments were performed with a sensor that had interdigitated electrodes coated with nebulizer deposited sol gel. These initial sensor experiments did not use temperature control. Typical HF concentrations in these initial experiments were on the order of 10 50 ppm while typical total gas flows ranged from 20 30 ccm. Humidity ranges were varied widely from almost dry air to an excess of 80 relative humidity RH . A standard operational procedure was developed that required the sensor to sit in the gas flow for at least 24 hours before and after HF exposure to make certain the RH and gas flow stabilized so as not to attribute a signal shift to changes in flow or humidity. Signal variation during this steady state operation without HF was extremely low.

In is shown a graph of the capacitance versus time for this sensor after exposure to HF. The sensor under test had a 5 micron gap between interdigitated electrode fingers. The sensor was exposed to a 26 sccm gas flow with a RH of nearly 77 and 55 ppm HF. The ppm concentration represents the amount of HF in the gas phase. A capacitive shift of approximately 120 femtofarads occurred which corresponded to complete removal of approximately 5000 of sol gel film after a 3.5 hour exposure to the gas flow. This shift corresponded to an average of 24 attofarads capacitance per A of sol gel. Approximately 1 of sol gel was removed for every 8 seconds of HF exposure. The capacitance generally decreased as expected indicating the gradual removal of a higher dielectric constant material SiO and replacement with a lower one air . However there was a notable increase in capacitance at etching onset. This increase was likely due to water creation during initial etching. Pure water has a relatively high dielectric constant on the order of 78.5 due to its polar nature. Water creation during the etching process contributes to the effective dielectric constant of the sensing material. Much of the created water evaporates into the gas phase however some of it stays resident on the sol gel film. As the etching progresses the removal of the sol gel begins to reduce available locations for the water film to nucleate and the overall capacitance begins to decrease due to the loss of dielectric material. These factors eventually overwhelm water s contribution to the effective dielectric constant and the capacitive signal decreases. At about 1.10 10seconds into the testing there was a decrease in signal after several hours of apparent baseline. The HSiFreaction product stays resident primarily in the liquid phase and usually needs to be rinsed or allowed to evaporate before the surface can be considered clean. The signal decrease may mark the evaporation of this thin water and HSiFlayer as illustrated in .

A second set of experiments was preformed with a heated fringing field capacitive chemical sensor. Heating of the chemically sensitive dielectric film can drive off adsorbed water and other contaminants which might otherwise affect the capacitance measurement. Literature indicates that the HF etch rate peaks at 25 C. but decreases with increasing temperature until it becomes very slow at over 40 C. See P. A. M. van der Heide et al. Etching of thin SiOlayers using wet HF gas 7 3 1719 1989 . This etching rate reversal is due to the elevated temperature driving off the water film on the oxide surface and decreasing the available water for HF condensation.

To demonstrate the ability of a heated membrane to drive off adsorbed water the capacitance of a device was monitored at a typical indoor RH of 45 . In is shown a graph of capacitance versus time for the heated chemical sensor following step changes in temperature. The temperature was stepped from 23 C. to 37 C. then to 50 C. and then back to 23 C. The initial capacitance decrease resulting from the temperature step from 23 C. to 37 C. was over 3 picofarads. The capacitance then asymptotically drifted upward from this value. An increase to 50 C. caused little signal change since the majority of the water had been driven from the film. When the active heating was discontinued the capacitance once more asymptotically climbed back to its room temperature value.

In are shown graphs of capacitance versus time for fringing field capacitive chemical sensors each with a PECVD oxide thickness of 4200 after exposure to an environment having an HF concentration of 4 ppm. The results shown in are for a sensor with a 5 micron interdigitated electrode gap and a membrane heated to 36 C. The results shown in are for a sensor with a 10 micron interdigitated electrode gap and a membrane held at ambient room temperature. The differences in baseline capacitance between the two sensors primarily stem from the variation in interdigitated electrode geometry. The testing conditions were a RH of 41 45 and a total gas flow of 40 sccm. The dielectric constant of the denser PECVD oxide was much higher than the sol gel. The total capacitance shift on the 5 micron gap interdigitated electrode was nearly 30 picofarads which equates to 7 femtofarads per angstrom of oxide film.

Comparing the delay between the introduction of HF and the first indication of the etching reaction in indicates that the heated sensor responded to etching 57 faster than the unheated sensor. Once the etching reaction had been initiated the heated sensor experienced a largely continuous though slow etching reaction which resulted in the total removal of the oxide film. The unheated sensor experienced a partial etching reaction which partially removed the oxide very quickly but then the reaction ceased and no change was seen for another 50 hours. Thereafter the reaction once more initiated and quickly removed the majority of the sensing PECVD oxide film. Comparing the time necessary for complete removal of the film indicates the heated sensor etched over 400 faster.

The present invention has been described as a capacitive chemical sensor. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

