---

title: Complex pendulum biomass sensor
abstract: A complex pendulum system biomass sensor having a plurality of pendulums. The plurality of pendulums allow the system to detect a biomass height and density. Each pendulum has an angular deflection sensor and a deflector at a unique height. The pendulums are passed through the biomass and readings from the angular deflection sensors are fed into a control system. The control system determines whether adjustment of machine settings is appropriate and either displays an output to the operator, or adjusts automatically adjusts the machine settings, such as the speed, at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass. In an alternate embodiment, an entanglement sensor is also passed through the biomass to determine the amount of biomass entanglement. This measure of entanglement is also fed into the control system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07311013&OS=07311013&RS=07311013
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 07311013
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 99ID13727 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Bechtel BWXT Idaho LLC.

The present invention relates to agricultural harvesting equipment. More particularly the present invention relates to increasing the efficiency of biomass harvesters by the determination of height density and entanglement of biomass entering a combine harvester. The present invention allows for the real time detection of biomass height density and entanglement of a various biomass including grain corn forage crops and switch grass.

Combine harvesters have been used to efficiently harvest biomass for many years. Originally developed to eliminate the need for manual cutting and threshing harvesters have evolved into large self powered machines able to simultaneously perform many steps at once. A modern combine harvester can now cut thresh and clean crop in one continuous operation.

Combine harvesters today provide the operator with a means to vary machine settings so that different crop conditions may be accommodated. In order to achieve the highest capacity and efficiency of the harvesting machine the harvester ground speed must be controlled according to the varying conditions of crop height density and entanglement. This control is normally achieved by an operator who depending on his or her experience visually judges the crop condition and adjusts the ground speed accordingly. However crop conditions can vary widely in the same field requiring the operator to make constant adjustments to ground speed in order to attempt to maintain the optimum machine capacity and efficiency. This constant adjustment by the operator is not only a burden on the operator but makes it very difficult to maintain an optimal speed for a given crop condition. Furthermore constant adjustments may pose a safety risk by drawing the operators attention away from the safe operation of the combine harvester.

One method of measuring the efficiency of a combine harvester harvesting grain is to measure the amount of grain lost over the back of the sieve component and over the straw walker assembly such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 036 065 herein fully incorporated by reference. U.S. Pat. No. 4 036 065 describes the use of sensors at locations across the rear of the sieve of a combine and the sound of grain kernels striking the sensor being picked up by a microphone amplified filtered and fed to a ratio computing device which calculates the total grain loss from the sampling. The calculated grain loss is then displayed to the operator who can then make the necessary adjustments. Similarly U.S. Pat. No. 5 015 997 herein fully incorporated by reference describes a method of measuring grain loss over the back of the sieve using a pulse pick up or vibration pick up type sensor. Other systems utilize piezoelectric transducers to detect grain loss over the back of the sieve component.

These prior art systems can account in some degree for the various factors of affecting the harvesting of the crop. Such devices however insufficient for determining the optimum ground speed for two reasons. First while grain loss is to some degree a function of ground speed it is more closely related to other machine settings such concave setting rotor cylinder speed fan speed and sieves opening. Only after changes to these setting fail to reduce grain loss should the ground speed be adjusted in response to grain loss. Second response to grain loss is reactive with a 10 15 second delay between the time the crop is cut to the time the loss of that crop is detected. Other prior art system besides grain loss exist but they too are reactive. The present invention is positioned in front of the harvester and the crop conditions are detected 1 2 seconds prior to being cut and therefore the control is proactive rather than reactive.

Single pendulum systems have been used at the front of the combine harvester or forage harvester to measure biomass height. The system usually consists of a simple frame having a hinge a potentiometer a hanging rod and a deflector. The hinge securely holds the hanging rod to the frame while allowing the rod to rotate. The potentiometer is connected to detect the angle of rotation between the frame and the rod. Finally the deflector is attached to the end of the rod and deflects off biomass allowing the height of the biomass to be determined given the angle of deflection read by the potentiometer. Although a single pendulum system can be applied to biomass other than grain it can only determine biomass height and not other factors such biomass density and entanglement.

There are many factors affecting the harvesting of the biomass such as moisture content varying density of biomass the height of the biomass the general quality of the biomass and biomass entanglement. None of the prior art systems are able to detect and properly account for all of these factors while being applicable to a broad range of biomass such as grain corn or switchgrass. A method for the real time determination of biomass height density and entanglement is needed to determine the most efficient harvester speed.

The invention relates to a complex pendulum system biomass sensor comprising a plurality of pendulums one or more frames and a control system. The plurality of pendulums are connected to the one or more frames and passed through a biomass. As the pendulums are passed through the biomass each pendulum is deflected at a unique height by the biomass. The amount of deflection of each pendulum is detected and passed to the control system which calculates the height and density of the biomass. Additionally an entanglement sensor may also be passed through the biomass to detect biomass entanglement.

The invention relates to a complex pendulum system biomass sensor comprising a plurality of pendulums one or more frames and a control system. The plurality of pendulums are connected to the one or more frames and passed through a biomass. As the pendulums are passed through the biomass each pendulum is deflected at a unique height by the biomass. The amount of deflection of each pendulum is detected and passed to the control system which calculates the height and density of the biomass. Additionally an entanglement sensor may also be passed through the biomass to detect biomass entanglement.

Each pendulum as shown in comprises a hinge a rod a deflector and an angular deflection sensor . The rod is attached to one or more frames by the hinge whereby the hinge allows the rod to freely rotate along a free axis which is perpendicular to the length of the rod . The deflector is attached to the rod . The deflector is passed through a biomass in a direction along the free axis. The angle of deflection of the rod by the biomass is detected by the angular deflection sensor and fed into a control system preferably by one or more wires . The angle of deflection is the amount the pendulum rotates about the free axis when passed through the biomass. The deflector of each pendulum is at a unique height in relation to the ground preferably by the use of different rod lengths different frame heights or shapes by mounting the deflector at different points along the rod or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the deflector is mounted at the end of the rod of each pendulum and the rod of each pendulum has a unique length. Preferably a long pendulum has a height whereby the pendulum is as low to the ground as possible without being obstructed by deviations along the ground a short pendulum has a height whereby the pendulum generally brushes about the top of the biomass and the remaining pendulums equally occupy the area between the long and short pendulums. As an example in the case of a two foot grain biomass the short pendulum hangs about two feet from the ground. A medium pendulum hangs about one foot from the ground. The long pendulum hangs about two to four inches from the ground preferably three inches.

The one or more frames are each made out of any rigid material including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. Each pendulum may share a common frame have separate frames use an existing rigid body or a combination thereof. The one or more frames each have a shape whereby the rod and the deflector are allowed to freely rotate along the free axis. The pendulums preferably share a common frame made of inc. steel stock rod. In a preferred embodiment the one or more frames are welded or more preferably bolted to the head of a combine harvester swather or forage harvester.

The hinge may be made of any rigid materials including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. preferably a metal. The hinge allows the rod to freely rotate along the free axis. The hinge is preferably bolted screwed welded soldered or glued to the rod and a frame from the one or more frames .

In a preferred embodiment the hinge comprises a steel pin and a Teflon sleeve. The steel pin is welded to the one or more frames and covered by the Teflon sleeve. The end of the rod has a small aperture whereby the steel pin is allowed to perpendicularly pass through the Teflon sleeve and the rod . A steel cap is preferably welded or screwed onto the end of the steel pin such that the Teflon sleeve and the rod are prevented from sliding off the steel pin.

The rod is made of any rigid materials including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. preferably a metal. The rod has a shape whereby the rod will not restrict rotation along the free axis. In a preferred embodiment the rod is a inc. hollow copper pipe.

The deflector is connected to the rod and made of any rigid materials including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. preferably a metal. The deflector has a shape such that the deflector will rotate along the free axis when the deflector is passed through biomass in a direction along the free axis. The deflector is preferably bolted screwed welded soldered or glued to the rod . In a preferred embodiment the deflector is a hollow 1 inc. copper pipe mounted perpendicular to the rod and free axis and soldered to the rod .

The deflector is preferably weighted to increase its mass so that the deflector will pass somewhat into the biomass and not simply atop the biomass. The preferable weight depends upon the biomass and other dampening factors of the pendulum such as resistance from the hinge or the angular deflection sensor . In a preferred embodiment various lengths of steel rod are added to the inside of the deflector a hollow copper pipe. In the alternative the pendulum is designed with other types of dampening methods such as a spring integrated into the hinge . Preferably the amount of dampening is adjustable by the user such as a tension adjustment or the ability to add and remove weights to the deflector . In a preferred embodiment a 1.3 lb 6 inc. long 1 inc. diameter steel bar is placed inside the deflector of the short pendulum and the medium pendulum while a 2.7 lb 12 inc. long 1 inc. diameter steel bar is placed inside the deflector of the long pendulum .

In the alternative the deflector may be omitted using just the rod as the deflector . In yet another embodiment the deflector is integrated with the rod as one continuous piece.

The angular deflection sensor detects the angle of rotation of the rod along the free axis when passed through the biomass. Preferably the angular deflection sensor is an angle sensor capable of detecting the angle of rotation along the free axis. In a preferred embodiment the angular deflection sensor is a 340 degree rotary potentiometer. The potentiometer is connected to the one or more frames and the rod . The resistance across the potentiometer is then measured and used to determine the angle between the one or more frames and the rod based on the characteristics of the potentiometer. In a preferred embodiment the angular deflection sensor comprises a potentiometer connected to a voltage divider where the output is a percentage of the input voltage and proportional to the angular displacement as expressed by the following Eq.1 out angle range in. Eq. 1 Where Vout is the output voltage angle is the angle the potentiometer is at range is the range of the potentiometer in the same unit as the angle and Vin is the input voltage to the voltage divider. For example where the range for the potentiometer used is 340 degrees and 5 volts is supplied Vin at 0 degrees the output voltage would be 0 Volts and at 340 degrees the output would be 5 volts. Preferably the difference between the angle when passed through the biomass and when the pendulums are free standing is used by the control system to calculate the biomass height and density.

The control system uses the output of the angular deflection sensor to determine the biomass height and density either as a relative value or as an absolute value. The control system may be the operator a mechanical device electronic device or a combination thereof. Preferably the control system is an electronic device. The control system may display an output to the operator for operator adjustment dynamically control the speed at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the control system is a microcontroller capable of controlling the speed at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass while also displaying to the operator information on the relative height and density of the biomass. A series of lights CRT or LCD for example may be used to display information to the operator. There are many methods of controlling the speed at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass known to one skilled in the art. For example if the pendulums are passed through a biomass by an internal combustion combine harvester swather or forage harvester the speed may be controlled by a servo or vacuum actuator connected to the throttle line of the combine harvester swather or forage harvester.

The control system receives data from the angular deflection sensor of each pendulum. For example when the angular deflection sensor is a potentiometer a voltmeter is used to determine the resistance across the potentiometer. This resistance is then used with the characteristics of the potentiometer to determine the angle between the one or more frames and the rod . The difference between this angle and the angle formed when the pendulums is free standing is the angle of deflection. In a preferred embodiment two wires measure a voltage across the angular deflection sensor . In another preferred embodiment each angular deflection sensor is connected via a wire to a Controller Area Network CAN . Other wired and wireless techniques of transferring data may also be used such as digital transmission through a wire radio frequency transmission infrared and light transmission and sound transmission.

The control system may also be coupled with multiple sensors. For example a GPS system may be used to map biomass density and height or for automation with a system such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 445 983. Preferably a Controller Area Network CAN is used to send readings from the angular deflection sensor of each pendulum as well as any other sensor readings to the microcontroller.

The control system then determines if the speed at which each pendulum is passed through the biomass should be increased or decreased A general decrease in the deflection of all pendulums results from shorter biomass and the control system will signal for an increase the speed. A general increase in the deflection of all pendulums results from taller biomass and the control system will signal for a decrease the speed.

A longer pendulum having a larger increase in deflection than a shorter pendulum indicates shorter but denser biomass and the control system will signal for a decrease in speed. A longer pendulum having a larger decrease in deflection than a shorter pendulum indicates taller but less denser biomass and the control system will preferably maintain its speed.

A shorter pendulum having a larger increase in deflection than a longer pendulum indicates taller but less dense biomass and the control system will signal for an increase in speed. A shorter pendulum having a larger decrease in deflection than a longer pendulum indicates shorter but more dense biomass and the control system will preferably maintain its speed. In the alternative the control system may calculate the optimal speed for harvesting or automatically alter the speed at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass.

One or more entanglement sensors and a control system may be used to detect biomass entanglement. The entanglement sensors may be completely separate and distinct from the pendulum system or may be combined with the pendulum system as in a preferred embodiment. As shown in each entanglement sensor has a strain sensor and a hook . The strain sensor is secured to a frame preferably the frame of a pendulum. The strain sensor is secured to the frame preferably by welding the strain sensor to the frame . The hook is connected to the strain sensor by linkage preferably by a string rope metal twine cable or more preferably a steel rod.

In a preferred embodiment the hook and strain sensor each have a threaded coupler. The ends of the linkage are threaded and connected to the threaded coupler of the hook or the threaded coupler of the strain sensor .

The frame can made out of any rigid material including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. Preferably the frame is made out of a metal. Each entanglement sensor may have its own separate and distinct frame or share a common frame. In the alternative an existing rigid body may be utilized as a frame such as a frame of a pendulum or the head of a combine harvester. In a preferred embodiment the frame is the same frame used by the pendulums and made of inc. steel stock rod.

The strain sensor is capable of measuring the force exerted by the entanglement sensor preferably a strain gauge. The strain sensor is fixedly connected to the hook by the linkage . The hook is also attached to the strain sensor in a manner whereby the force exerted by the hook may be measured by the strain sensor . Preferably the strain sensor is a load cell more preferably a 10 lb. load cell.

The hook is made of any rigid materials including wood plastics metals ceramics etc. preferably a metal. The hook has a shape such that when passed through the biomass it will be more likely to get caught within entangled biomass preferably a single hook. The tip of the hook is passed along the free axis It is analogous to passing a comb through hair. Although the comb with receive some resistance when passing through untangled hair it will be much less than the resistance from entangled hair. Therefore the hook will pass through normal untangled biomass with relatively little resistance. However when entangled biomass is present the hook with snag on the biomass causing an increased strain on the strain sensor frame and connections thereof. This increased strain is measured by the strain sensor and transmitted to a control system preferably by a wire .

Data from the strain sensor is then used to determine the entanglement of the biomass by a control system . The control system detects the amount of force exerted on the strain sensor and signals for a change in the speed at which the pendulums are passed through the biomass. If the entanglement sensor detects an increase in force there is a signal to decrease the speed. If the entanglement sensor detects a decrease in force there is a signal for an increase in speed. In the alternative the control system automatically adjusts the speed.

Crop entanglement the resulting change in speed the strain sensor is passed through the biomass the calculated highest speed of efficiency or combinations thereof can be calculated by the operator a mechanical device an electronic device or combinations thereof. The speed may be displayed to the operator of the combine harvester swather or forage harvester or fed into the control system to automatically adjust the speed optimal efficiency. Ideally strain sensor data is fed into the control system with the angular deflection sensor of each pendulum whereby the control system can account for biomass height mass and entanglement.

Multiple entanglement sensors may be used producing multiple entanglement readings. In one embodiment the entanglement sensors may be spread out over the length of the harvester to gather a more complete sample of the biomass. In this embodiment an average entanglement reading may be calculated from the multiple entanglement sensors. In the alternative the readings from the multiple entanglement sensors may each be stored for high resolution capture of biomass entanglement. In another embodiment multiple entanglement sensors are used as a redundancy. In this embodiment the readings of the entanglement sensors may be averaged or the operator may select a single entanglement sensor reading to be utilized. Numerous other uses are known in the art or obvious to those skilled in the art.

In a preferred embodiment shown in short medium and long pendulums are attached to a frame . The short medium and long pendulums each have a hinge angular deflection sensor rod and deflector . The rod is a hollow inc. copper pipe having an aperture at one end rigidly attached to the hinge . The hinge is a steel pin covered by a Teflon sleeve. The aperture of the rod is placed over the Teflon sleeve allowing the rod to rotate along an axis perpendicular to the length of the rod the free axis. The deflector is a 1 inc. copper pipe soldered to the bottom of the rod . The deflector is connected to the rod so as to be perpendicular to the rod and the free axis. The angular deflection sensor is a rotary potentiometer rigidly attached to the rod and the frame . Each angular deflection sensor of the short medium and long pendulums is connected to a control system by a first wire a second wire and a third wire respectively.

In a preferred embodiment the frame is made out of a inc. metal stock rod which is rigidly attached to the front of a harvester. Preferably the short pendulum hangs from the ground at about the height of the biomass the medium pendulum hangs from the ground at about the height of the biomass and the long pendulum hangs from the ground at about the height of the biomass. As an example two foot grain biomass is harvested whereby the short pendulum hangs about 18 inches the ground. The medium pendulum hangs about 12 inches from the ground. The long pendulum hangs about 6 inches from the ground preferably three inches.

The long pendulum has an entanglement sensor having a strain sensor and a hook . The strain sensor a 10 lb. load cell is welded to the same frame as used for the pendulums. The strain sensor and hook each have threaded couplings. A carbon steel rod is passed through the inside of the rod of the long pendulum . The carbon steel rod is threaded on each end. The strain sensor and hook are each attached to an end of the carbon steel rod by the threaded couplings. An aperture is made through the deflector of the long pendulum to allow the carbon steel rod to pass completely through the pendulum along a straight line. The hook a single hook is attached to the end of the carbon steel rod . The carbon steel rod is constrained within the rod and deflector of the long pendulum except for the carbon steel rod left outside of the tong pendulum . The carbon steel rod has a length whereby the hook hangs about two inches from the long pendulum .

The pendulums and the entanglement sensor are then passed along the biomass grain in the direction on the free axis. Information from each angular deflection sensor and strain sensor is passed to the control system which will optimize the speed at which the pendulums pass through the biomass and display the relative biomass height mass and entanglement to the operator.

The angular deflection sensor of each pendulum is a rotary potentiometer more specifically 340 degree rotary potentiometer having a 5 volt voltage divider. The electrical resistance of the potentiometer changes with the angle along the following Eq. 2 out angle 340 5 Eq. 2 Therefore as the angle between the frame and the rod passes from 0 to 340 degrees the voltage increases linearly from 0 to 5 volts.

The first section of the sample output shows the first pendulum reading second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading for the case of the biomass sensor as it moves into a grain biomass. As shown each pendulum reading progressively increases in deflection in an approximately uniform fashion. Fluctuations in deflection can generally be attributed to grain deviation and the fact that the shorter first pendulum will respond to a change in height and density before the second pendulum and third pendulum . Likewise the second pendulum will respond to a change in height density before the third pendulum . These fluctuations are caused by the longer pendulums when deflected extending out to biomass further than the biomass detected by the shorter pendulum. In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be decreased.

The second section of the sample output shows the readings from the pendulums as they pass through progressively shorter denser grain as shown by the greater decrease in deflection by the first pendulum reading compared to the relatively constant second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading . The decrease in the deflection of the first pendulum reading indicates a shorter grain height. While the lack of relative change in deflection of the second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading indicate the shorter grain is denser than the previous grain. In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be decreased.

The third section of the sample output shows the readings from the pendulums as they pass through progressively taller less dense grain as shown by the overall increase in deflection by the first pendulum reading and the overall constant second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading . The increase in the overall deflection of the first pendulum reading indicates a higher grain height. While the lack of overall change in deflection of the second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading indicate the higher grain is denser than the previous grain. In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be increased. In the alternative since the grain height has decreased the control system may also maintain the current speed.

The fourth section of the sample output shows the readings from the pendulums as they pass through an empty pocket of grain as shown by the overall decrease in deflection by the first pendulum reading second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading . In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be increased.

The fifth section of the sample output shows the readings from the pendulums as they pass into shorter grain as shown by the dramatic decrease in deflection by the first pendulum reading and the slower decrease in the second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading . The decrease in the overall deflection of the first pendulum reading along with the relative slower change in deflection of the second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading indicates a shorter grain than the previous grain. In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be increased.

The sixth section of the sample output shows the readings from the pendulums as they pass through progressively taller less dense grain. The increase in the overall deflection of the first pendulum reading indicates a higher grain height. While the lack of relative change in deflection of the second pendulum reading and third pendulum reading indicate that the taller grain is less dense than the previous grain. In this section the control system would preferably determine that the speed the pendulums pass through the grain should be increased.

The control system may use multiple algorithms as known in the art. For example the control system may establish a reference point whereby machine settings are optimally adjusted for an average angular deflection of each pendulum and if the average angular deflection of a pendulum changes more than a predefined threshold value the control system will signal for the appropriate response. The control system may also monitor the rate of change of the angular deflection of each pendulum to determine the appropriate control system response. In yet another embodiment the control system may assign weighting factors to the angular deflection of each pendulum so that more preference is given to one angular deflection reading than another Other methods as known by those skilled in the art may also be used.

In another embodiment the plurality of pendulums are replaced with a plurality of flexible rods or wands that are made out of metal fiberglass plastic etc. and passed through the biomass. The flexible rods or wands are positioned to pass perpendicularly through the biomass. Each flexible rod or wand has a strain gauge used to detect deflection of the flexible rod or wand as it passes through the biomass. Each strain gauge is in communication with the control system. The control system in this embodiment is capable of determining the biomass height and density using similar methods as with the pendulums above except utilizing the actual bending of the flexible rods or wands instead of the rotation of the pendulums.

Preferably a long flexible rod or wand has a height whereby the flexible rod or wand is as low to the ground as possible without being obstructed by deviations along the ground a short flexible rod or wand has a height whereby the flexible rod or wand generally brushes about the top of the biomass and the remaining flexible rods or wands equally occupy the area between the long and short flexible rods or wands. Preferably a long flexible rod or wand a medium flexible rod or wand and a short flexible rod or wand are passed through the biomass. As an example in the case of a two foot grain biomass the short flexible rod or wand hangs about two feet from the ground. A medium flexible rod or wand hangs about one foot from the ground. The long flexible rod or wand hangs about two to four inches from the ground preferably three inches.

In the preferred embodiment using flexible rods or wands shown in a long flexible rod or wand a medium flexible rod or wand and a short flexible rod or wand are passed through the biomass. In the preferred embodiment the rods or wands and are positioned horizontally to pass perpendicularly through the biomass and parallel to the ground. In another embodiment each rod or wand and may include a deflector similar to the deflector in and be positioned vertically to pass through the biomass perpendicular to the ground. Each of the rods or wands and are directly coupled to the frame and each strain gauge and is attached to its corresponding rod or wand and . In an alternative embodiment each of the rods or wands and are coupled by a corresponding strain gauge and to the frame . Each strain gauge and is in communication with the control system preferably by one or more wires and . Each strain gauge and is a device sensitive to twisting or flexing. Preferably each strain gauge and is a foil type strain gauge that is glued to the surface of the rods or wands and near its coupled end and that it will be protected by a durable cover such as a sleeve or coating applied over the strain gage and rod or wand. The foil type strain gauge consists of a grid of wire filament a resistor bonded directly to the strained surface by a thin layer of epoxy resin. When a load is applied to the surface the resulting change in surface length is communicated to the resistor and the corresponding strain is measured in terms of the electrical resistance of the foil wire which varies linearly with strain. Using the known characteristics of the rods or wands and and strain gauges and the control system can determine biomass height and density as described above.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

