---

title: Chair
abstract: A chair has a seat  and a backrest  and the backrest  is allowed to be tilted backward by elastic deformation of right and left back frame devices . The right and left back frame devices  each are composed of two unit frames  and . The back frame device  has a main portion which are disposed outside the right and left sides of the seat , upper inward portions and which are connected to an upper rear end of the main portion , lower inward portions and which go under the seat  from a lower end portion of the main portion , and forward end portions and which are integrally connected to the lower inward portions and . The forward end portions and are fixed to the base . The back frame device  can be largely elastically deformed with the combination of a characteristic in which the back frame device is long, a characteristic in which the back frame device has the lower inward portions and , and a characteristic in which the back frame device has the forward end portions and . Accordingly, the backrest  can be tilted backward at a large angle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07896439&OS=07896439&RS=07896439
owner: Itoki Corporation
number: 07896439
owner_city: Osaka-shi, Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060830
---
As a chair having a relatively simple structure there is a chair in which a backrest is attached to a frame device including bars or pipes. The chair of this type is allowed to have a rocking function so that the backrest is tilted backward by the leaning of a person sitting on a seat. An example thereof is described in Patent Document 1.

That is in Patent Document 1 a frame device of a chair includes right and left lower horizontal portions which elongates in back and forth directions and placed on a floor right and left front legs which rise toward the upper side from front ends of the lower horizontal portions upper horizontal portions which extend to the rear side from upper ends of the right and left front legs and right and left rear legs which rise from rear ends of the lower horizontal portions and a seat is attached to the right and left upper horizontal portions.

Rear ends of the right and left upper horizontal portions rise toward the upper side and the right and left upper horizontal portions are integrally connected to each other at a horizontally long lower portion. The horizontally long portion is connected to a lower back face of a backrest. Further the upper ends of the right and left rear legs are connected to each other by a horizontally long upper portion and the horizontally long upper portion is connected to a back face of a mid height portion of the backrest. The backward tilting of the backrest of the chair in Patent Documents 1 is realized because the rear legs resist elasticity and are thus tilted backward mainly.

Meanwhile Patent Document 2 describes an example of a rotating chair which has a leg column formed of a gas cylinder and in which a seat and a backrest are supported by a frame device. Further in a chair disclosed in Patent Document 3 a frame device has a shape opened toward the rear side in a side view and is fixed to a base and a backrest is attached to a rear portion of the frame device.

In order to improve comfort in a rocking state it is effective that a backrest is tilted backward as much as possible. Accordingly in the case of a chair in which a backrest is rocked using elastic deformation of a frame it is required to largely deform the frame as much as possible. However in the case of the chair in Patent document 1 since only the rear legs of the frame are elastically deformed a backward tilting amount of the backrest is small and a problem occurs in that there is a limit on improvement of comfort in a rocking state.

In addition it can be said that in the chair in Patent Document 2 a rocking function using bending of the frame device is rarely expected because the seat and the backrest only slide in back and forth directions as a whole. Further it is not known whether the chair in Patent Document 3 has a rocking function.

The present invention is contrived in view of the problems and a main object of the invention is to provide a chair which can ensure an improved rocking function together with a simple structure.

A chair of the present invention has a seat which is supported by a base a backrest which is tiltable backward and back frame devices which have main portions positioned outside the right and left sides of the seat and support the backward tilting of the backrest. The backward tilting of the backrest is allowed by elastic deformation of the back frame devices.

As a character of the present invention the main portions of the right and left back frame devices have a shape opened toward the rear side in a side view. In addition as another character of the present invention an upper connecting portion to which the backrest is attached is provided at an upper rear end of the main portion of the back frame device a lower connecting portion going under the seat is formed integrally with a lower rear end of the main portion of the back frame device the lower connecting portion has an end portion extending to the front side and the end portion of the lower connecting portion is fixed to the base or the seat.

In the present invention the main portion of the back frame device can be replaced with the word side frame to adopt a representation method that the side frame is provided with an upper connecting portion and a lower connecting portion.

In the present invention the whole back frame device can be elastically tilted. Further since the main portion of the back frame device has a shape opened toward the rear side in a side view a total length of the back frame device is long. A deformation amount of the back frame device can be increased because of the shape of the main portion. This is a first functional characteristic of the present invention.

In addition a screwing action and a bending action are applied to the lower connecting portion forming a lower portion of the back frame device upon rocking and thus the lower connecting portion is easily elastically deformed. This is a second functional characteristic of the present invention.

In the present invention the back frame device can be largely elastically deformed with the combination of the characteristics. As a result it is possible to ensure an improved rocking function together with a simple structure.

The base in the present invention represents a member supporting the seat and thus a leg is also in a category of the base. When the leg includes a gas cylinder it is thought that the base is fixed to an upper end of the gas cylinder and the leg and the base are different members. However when the leg is formed of a pipe or a plate the seat and the back frame device can be attached to the leg and thus in this case the leg and the base are identifiable.

The present invention includes two configurations. One is that the seat and the backrest are integrally connected to each other and the other is that the seat and the backrest are not connected. When the seat and the backrest are connected to each other the backrest is supported by the seat and thus a burden on the back frame device is reduced. Accordingly it can be said that the present invention is particularly valuable in a chair of a type in which the seat and the backrest are integrally connected to each other.

Regardless of the connection between the seat and the backrest there is a high tendency to improve a fitting property to a body when the seat is tilted backward upon rocking. Moreover the present invention also includes a configuration in which the seat and the backrest are tilted backward together in a state of being connected to each other. The backrest and the seat are integrally tilted backward in this configuration and thus a comfortable rocking state can be provided to a user. It is preferable that a degree of the backward tilting of the seat is smaller than a degree of the backward tilting of the backrest.

In one configuration of the present invention a rising portion supporting a waist of a person sitting on the seat is formed at a rear end of the seat and the backrest is connected to the rising portion to be tiltable backward. Under this configuration the waist of the person is supported by the rising portion of the seat even in a rocking state and thus a so called lumbar support function can be ensured.

The structure of the backrest attachment to the back frame device can employ various modes. For example a bracket may be provided at right and left ends of the backrest to be connected to the upper rear end of the main portion of the back frame device by pins.

In one configuration of the present invention upper inward portions which extend along a back face of the backrest are formed to be bent at the upper rear ends of the main portions of the right and left back frame devices respectively and the upper inward portions serve as the upper connecting portion. This invention has an advantage in that the structure is simple and the backrest can be strongly supported.

The right and left back frame devices each can be formed of one member. However in a preferable mode of the present invention the right and left back frame devices each includes a plurality of unit frames extending substantially parallel to each other. The back frame device of the present invention is bent complicatedly as a whole. Accordingly when the right and left back frame devices each includes a plurality of unit frames a phenomenon in which the unit frames are deformed restrictively each other occurs and thus it is possible to prevent excessive deformation even when employing thin members bar shaped members or pipes . This is an advantage of the present invention.

When the right and left back frame devices each includes a plurality of unit frames it is preferable that each back frame device is composed of two unit frames in view of appearance and economy. Further it is preferable to employ metal bars or pipes as a material for the unit frame and particularly it is preferable to employ steel or stainless round bars in view of strength.

In the present invention an armrest can be attached to an upper portion of the main portion of the back frame device. That is the back frame device also serves as an armrest support member and this is economical. In one configuration of the present invention under the assumption that the right and left back frame devices each includes two unit frames the two unit frames extend substantially parallel to each other in the main portion in a top view and in a front view and the armrest is attached to an upper portion of the main portion. Thanks to this configuration the armrest can be stably attached.

Further in another configuration of the present invention in the attachment of the armrest to the two unit frames of the back frame device the two unit frames are disposed at different heights so that the unit frame close to the seat is lower than the unit frame distant from the seat. Thus an upper face of the armrest has a posture obliquely tilted downward toward the seat in a front view. The upper face of the armrest can have a horizontal posture. However when the upper face of the armrest is tilted downward toward the seat while a person sitting on the seat outstretches his right and left arms that is the arms are tilted outside in a front view and puts each elbow on the armrest the elbow is put on the upper face of the armrest at nearly 90 degrees and thus stability of the elbows becomes good. This is also an advantage of the present invention.

Furthermore in another configuration of the present invention the main portion of the back frame device has a substantially horizontally directed V shape in a side view in which a backward tilting portion and a forward tilting portion are continuously connected to each other. In this configuration excessive deformation of the main portion is suppressed and thus a proper elastic characteristic can be ensured. In addition since a space opened toward the front side in a side view is generated between the main portion of the back frame device and the seat there is an advantage in that for example the back frame device does not interfere with even a person who sits on the seat and stretches out his legs. Moreover the main portion of the back frame device is a most appealing portion. When the main portion is formed in a horizontal V shape it gives a sharp impression to people and thus it can be said that this is excellent in view of design.

In the present invention the backrest and the seat include both of a single layer structure and a multilayer structure. In one configuration of the present invention the backrest has a back inner shell of which a front face is covered with a cushion and a back outer shell which is disposed on the back side of the back inner shell and the upper inward portion of the back frame device is disposed between the back inner shell and the back outer shell. The chair of the invention has a good appearance because the upper inward portion of the back frame device is not exposed.

Further in another configuration of the present invention the back outer shell of the backrest is formed of a wooden plate and in the back outer shell a backward protruding portion for avoiding the interference with the upper inward portion of the back frame device is formed to be bent and extends over the entire horizontal length. The seat has a seat outer shell which is formed of a wooden plate and a seat inner shell which is disposed on an upper face thereof and covered with a cushion and the seat outer shell and the back outer shell have substantially the same thickness and extend to be continuous each other in a side view.

The reason why the back outer shell and the seat outer shell are formed of a wooden plate is mainly requirement in design and cost. Using wood which is a recyclable resource is helpful in view of global environment. Since the outer shell of the backrest is provided with the backward protruding portion the outer shell and the inner shell of the backrest are brought in contact with each other as closely as possible and the interference of the back frame device with the outer shell is avoided. Thus an excellent appearance is obtained.

A first embodiment is applied to a so called rotating chair. The chair has a seat and a backrest which are integrally connected to each other a leg which supports the seat and the backrest and right and left back frame devices for holding the backrest to be rocked. The leg has a plurality of branch feet radially extending in a top view and a leg column formed of a gas cylinder and a caster is provided at a front end of the branch foot . A base having a circular shape when viewed in a downward direction is fixed to an upper end of the leg column . The shape of the base is not limited to the circular shape and any shape can be selected.

For example as illustrated in the seat has a seat outer shell made of plywood wooden board a resin seat inner shell overlapping with an upper face of the seat outer shell and fixed thereto and a seat cushion covering an upper face of the seat inner shell .

The backrest has a back outer shell made of plywood wooden board a back inner shell disposed in front of the back outer shell and a back cushion covering a front face of the back inner shell . Needless to say the cushions and are covered with cloth outer cover material . Any of resin and metal can be employed as a material for the back inner shell . In the case where it is required to ensure strength it is preferable to employ metal for example sheet metal or aluminum die casting product .

The seat inner shell and the back inner shell are provided with ribs and overlapping with the outer shells and respectively. The seat outer shell and the back outer shell and the seat inner shell and the back inner shell are manufactured as different members respectively. As illustrated in B and D a reinforcing plate made of a thin metal plate is fixed to a rear lower face of the seat outer shell and the reinforcing plate and the back inner shell are connected by a hinge to be rotatable relative to each other. A front end portion of the reinforcing plate is fixed to the seat outer shell by a presser plate made of a metal plate.

The seat outer shell and the back inner shell may be directly connected by the hinge without the use of the reinforcing plate . In addition the seat inner shell and the back inner shell may be connected by the hinge and the seat inner shell and the back outer shell may be also connected by the hinge. Moreover the seat inner shell and the back inner shell may be also manufactured to be integral with each other in this case it is preferable to form a flexible hinge portion .

The seat inner shell and the seat outer shell and the back inner shell and the back outer shell are held to be integral with each other respectively by a pair of male and female snap members fitted to each other by deformation occurring against elasticity. Needless to say they may be fixed to each other by a fastening tool such as a machine screw.

A rear portion of the seat inner shell and a rear portion of the seat outer shell slightly rise while gently curved in a side view in reference sign is the rising portion of the seat . Accordingly it can be said that a lower portion of the backrest is configured by the seat inner shell and the seat outer shell or the seat is provided integrally with a pelvis supporting portion. However in this description the seat includes the rising portions of the rear portion of the seat outer shell and the seat inner shell this is for convenience in description .

In general the seat the backrest and the connecting portion that is support shaft of hinge are disposed at a height near a lower portion of a lumbar area of a person sitting on the seat.

As illustrated in A and the base has a cylindrical body and an upper plate an intermediate plate and a lower plate are disposed in the cylindrical body . The plates and are fixed to the cylindrical body by welding and a bush is fixed to central portions of the plates and by welding. An upper end portion of the leg column is fitted to the bush .

For example as illustrated in a pair of right and left stopper rods which are vertically long and each of which is partially fitted into the base are disposed under the seat outer shell . A horizontal support plate is fixed to the upper end of the stopper rod by welding and the support plate is fixed to the seat outer shell by a machine screw.

For example as illustrated in and a seat support surrounding the bush from the right left and rear sides is fixed to the lower plate of the base by welding In an upper face of the seat support overlaps with the intermediate plate but actually as illustrated in a gap exists between the seat support and the intermediate plate .

The seat support is provided with column portions which have a forwardly tilted posture in a side view and rise while extending horizontally in a front view and the front end of the support portion is formed integrally with a horizontal portion which faces right and left directions. The horizontal portion of the seat support is pressed and held in the seat outer shell by holding pieces . The holding piece is covered with a cover .

The cover has a cantilever beam shaped overhanging portion fitted between the seat outer shell and the horizontal portion and a rib overlapping with a lower face of the holding piece . As shown by the arrow A in the cover is attached to the horizontal portion by being inserted thereto from the outside and thus a fastening tool such as a machine screw is not required.

In addition the overhanging portion of the cover is firmly inserted between the horizontal portion of the seat support and the seat ouster shell and a lower face of the horizontal portion of the seat support is brought into contact with a bottom face of the holding piece . Accordingly the seat support is held in the seat outer shell without rattling.

An auxiliary stay which is curved in a forward convex shape in a top view is fixed to the base of the right and left horizontal portions of the seat support by welding. Accordingly the seat is supported only by the auxiliary stay .

The lower end of the rod is a free end. In a non sitting state the lower end of the stopper rod is positioned near an upper face of the intermediate plate of the base . In addition the seat resists elastic deformation of the seat support and can be thus tilted backward. When the seat is tilted backward the stopper rod is dropped and a maximum backward tilting angle of the seat is restricted by the reach of the stopper rod to the lower plate of the base . The upper plate of the base has a long hole see for allowing the stopper rod to be rotated. The intermediate plate of the base is notched so as not to interfere with the stopper rod .

A lever for lifting and dropping the seat is disposed under a front portion of the seat . The lever is manufactured by bending one bar or pipe and has a shape curved in a forward concave shape or arched shape in a top view as a whole. Accordingly the lever employs a form pulled upward under right and left corner portions of the seat . The main reason for employing such a form is that when lower legs of a person enter under the seat it is avoided that the lower legs reach to the operation lever .

Next an attachment structure of the operation lever will be described based on . The base of the operation lever has a shape almost the same as a U shape in a top view and has right and left front rear long portions which extend parallel to each other with a gap interposed therebetween and horizontally long horizontal portions which are formed so as to be opposed to the right and left front rear long portions respectively. An operation piece for pushing a push rod of the operating piece leg column is fixed to the right and left horizontally long horizontal portions by welding and the right and left horizontally long horizontal portions other than the operation piece are pressed and held in the upper face of the intermediate plate of the base by holding members respectively.

In the holding member right and left middle portions are notched so as not to interfere with the operation piece and a portion pressing the horizontally long horizontal portion is bifurcated. A rear end portion of the holding member is provided with a hook which is fitted to a long hole formed on the intermediate plate of the base and hung so as not to move upward. By putting the hook on the edge of the long hole from the lower side the rear end portion is fixed by one machine screw so as not to be shifted. The holding member is interposed between the front rear long portions of the operation lever from the right and left sides and thus the operation lever is not horizontally shifted.

When a finger is caught on right and left end portions of the operation lever to pull the portions upward the operation lever is rotated around the horizontally long horizontal portion and thus a bush valve of the leg column is pushed down by the operation piece and the lock of the leg column gas cylinder is released. In a non operation state the front rear long portion of the operation lever overlaps with the upper face of the intermediate plate of the base . Accordingly the operation lever is held so as not to fall down in the non operation state.

Next the back frame devices will be described. The back frame devices have main portions which are positioned outside the right and left sides of the seat . The main portion has a backward tilting portion constituting an upper portion with respect to a front end thereof as a boundary and a forward tilting portion constituting a lower portion with respect to the front end thereof as a boundary. The whole main portion has a V shape opened toward the rear side.

A continuous portion that is front end portion of main portion of the forward tilting portion and the backward tilting portion of the main portion is curved in an arc shape in a side view. Further a degree of the tilting of the backward tilting portion is smaller than a degree of the tilting of the forward tilting portion . The reason of this is that an armrest is attached to the backward tilting portion . In addition the backward tilting portion and the forward tilting portion are gently curved in a side view so as to form a concave shape toward an opposite direction.

The right and left back frame devices each are composed of unit frames and formed of two round bars and both of the whole unit frames and extend substantially parallel to each other. In the following description when it is required to distinguish the two unit frames and from each other the unit frame close to the seat is referred to as the first unit frame and the unit frame distant from the seat is referred to as the second unit frame with reference to the postures in the main portion for convenience. A bar made of metal such as steel stainless or aluminum can be used as a material for both of the unit frames and .

The first unit frame and the second unit frame have upper inward portions and bent and going behind a back face of the back inner shell from the rear end of the main portion respectively. In this case the upper inward portion of the second unit frame is positioned higher than the upper inward portion of the first unit frame and the upper inward portions of the right and left second unit frames each are pressed and held in the back inner shell by presser portions bearing members . The presser portion is fixed to the back inner shell by a machine screw. The upper inward portion of the second unit frame can be slightly rotated relative to the presser member and the back inner shell .

In this embodiment the upper inward portions of the right and left second unit frames are continuously connected to each other. Thus the right and left second unit frames are manufactured using one round bar as a material. In this embodiment since the right and left upper inward portions extend in series there is an advantage in that the tilting of the backrest becomes smooth.

The upper inward portion of the first unit frame has a set length so as to abut on or be brought into close contact with the presser member . Since the upper inward portion is set to have such a length right left positioning of the back frame device and the backrest is automatically performed.

It is preferable that the upper inward portion of the first unit frame and the upper inward portion of the second unit frame are integrally connected to each other by welding or the like. The back outer shell overlaps with the back face of the back inner shell . Accordingly in order to prevent the upper inward portions and of the unit frames and to interfere with the presser member a backward protruding portion curved in a mountain shape is formed to be bent in the back outer shell . A tunnel shaped space is generated between the back outer shell and the back inner shell by forming the backward protruding portion and this space can be sealed with a cap illustrated in and D.

For example as illustrated in the first unit frame and the second unit frame are provided with lower inward portions and which are horizontally long and go under the seat while being continuously connected to the rear end of the front tilting portion of the main portion respectively. In back of the base the lower inward portions and go under the seat and the front ends of the lower inward portions and are integrally connected to forward end portions and . The forward end portions and are fixed to the intermediate plate of the base by welding. In this embodiment the lower connecting portion described in the claims includes the lower inward portions and which are horizontally long and the forward end portions and

Needless to say a cylindrical body of the base is notched so as not to interfere with the forward end portions and . As illustrated in long holes and notched portions overlapping with the forward end portions and in a top view are formed in the intermediate plate of the base and this is a measure for facilitating overlaying upon welding of the forward end portions and

In this embodiment the lower inward portion and the forward end portion of the first unit frame are surrounded by the lower inward portion and the forward end portion of the second unit frame from the outside. This is because the forward end portions and are disposed at the same height. By changing the heights of the forward end portions and the forward end portions and can achieve a posture overlapping with each other in a top view and can be fixed to a side face of the base .

The first unit frame and the second unit frame are set to be at different heights so that the first unit frame is lower than the second unit frame at a position in the backward tilting portion of the main portion . In addition as illustrated in a plate member having a posture tilted in a front view is fixed to the first unit frame and the second unit frame of the backward tilting portion by welding and the armrest is fixed to the plate member .

Since the plate member is tilted in a front view an upper face of the armrest is tilted downward toward the seat in a front view. Accordingly when a person sitting on the seat outstretches his arms and puts each elbow on the armrest the arms are put from a direction substantially perpendicular to the upper face of the armrest as shown by the arrow B in and thus the elbows can be stably held. The armrest is separated into two upper and lower members and and the upper and lower members and are fastened by screws not shown passing through the plate member .

When a person sitting on the seat leans on the backrest a large moment is applied to an upper portion of the backrest and thus the backrest is largely tilted backward around the hinge by elastic deformation of the back frame device .

Further states specifically a state a in which since the back frame device has a long length and a substantially V shape in a side view the back frame device is easily deformed a state b in which since the lower inward portions and are present under the back frame device an action torsion action is applied to the lower inward portions and to screw them around axes thereof and thus the back frame device is largely and easily deformed in a direction so that the backward tilting angle of the backrest increases and a state c in which the screwing action and the bending action are also applied to the forward end portions and and thus they are allowed to be deformed are given and the back frame device is largely elastically deformed with the combination of the states a to c. As a result the backrest can be largely tilted backward.

The back frame device is composed of two inner and outer unit frames and . Since both of the unit frames and have different lengths and are disposed at different heights the unit frames and are deformed in different manners and deformation occurs with mutual restriction. That is a phenomenon in which one of the unit frames and is deformed while the other acts as resistance occurs.

In this case the sum of the elastic deformation of the two unit frames and becomes resistance to the backward tilting of the backrest and the forward advance of the seat . The unit frames and restrict each other as the degree of the deformation increases and thus an increasing rate of the elastic restoring force of the unit frames and as a whole is higher than an increasing rate of the backward tilting angle of the backrest . As a result the backrest is not steeply tilted backward. The backrest is tilted backward with an appropriate resistance force. In this manner the chair of this embodiment can provides a comfortable feeling upon rocking.

In this embodiment the seat is tilted backward and either one of the following two modes specifically a mode in which the seat is initially tilted backward since a person sitting on the seat leans on the backrest and a mode in which the seat is slightly tilted backward since a person sits on the seat can be selected as the backward tilting mode of the seat . The mode is determined depending on the setting of the strength elastic restoring force of the seat support .

In the case where the leg has a frame structure composed of pipes or bars various types are conventionally proposed. The present invention can be applied to any conventional leg and can be also applied to newly manufactured legs.

In this embodiment a seat and a backrest have a structure in which substrates and such as synthetic resin or plywood are covered with cushion members and respectively and the substrate and of the seat and the backrest are integrally connected to each other the substrates and correspond to the outer shells and of the first embodiment respectively . The backrest is bent in a side view around a bending point fold positioned at a height near a waist of a person sitting on the seat.

As a method of bending the backrest as illustrated in the substrate may be separated into upper and lower portions to connect both of the portions to each other by a hinge or a pin or the substrate may be made of a flexible material such as resin to form a thin hinge portion.

As illustrated in the seat is attached to seat frames attached to a base . The seat frames are formed in a substantially crank shape with lower horizontal portions which are horizontally long in a front view vertically long portions which are formed to be bent at opposite ends of the lower horizontal portions and right and left upper horizontal portions which are formed at opposite ends of the vertically long portions. The lower horizontal portion is fixed to the base or attached to be rotatable relative to the base via a lower bearing member . The upper horizontal portion of the seat frame is attached to be rotatable relative to a lower face of the seat by an upper bearing member . Accordingly when the seat frame is rotated around the upper horizontal portion the seat can slide forward and backward.

First and second unit frames and are provided with column portions rising in a vertical direction in a front view on the right and left sides of the seat upper portions extending backward while being continuously connected to the upper ends of the right and left column portions and lower portions which are horizontal in a side view and extend backward while being continuously connected to the lower ends of the right and left column portions . By the column portion the upper portion and the lower portion a main portion opened toward the rear side is configured.

Lower inward portions and which are horizontally long extend continuously from the rear ends of the lower portions and forward end portions and are formed integrally with the front ends of the lower inward portions and . The forward end portions and are fixed to the base by welding.

Moreover the rear end of an upper portion of the second unit frame is integrally connected to one upper inward portion extending along a back face of a portion near the upper end of the backrest and the upper inward portion is connected to the back face of the backrest by presser members to be relatively rotated. The upper portion of the first unit frame is fixed to the upper inward portion of the second unit frame by welding.

The upper inward portion disposed inside the backrest may be made of a different member from that for both of the unit frames and and the upper portions of the unit frames and may be fixed to the upper inward portion by welding or the like. Furthermore the first unit frame may be provided with an upper inward portion which is formed to be bent.

As illustrated in the second unit frame and the first unit frame extend substantially parallel to each other in a top view and in a front view except the upper inward portion

In this embodiment when the seat frame is fixed to the base the seat only moves forward upon rocking. On the other hand when the seat frame is connected to the base to be tiltable the seat moves forward upon rocking. In addition the front end of the seat may be dropped by forward movement that is forward tilting .

A function of the back frame device is essentially the same as that of the first embodiment. However it can be said that since a length of the back frame device is longer than that of the first embodiment and the first unit frame and the second unit frame are not connected to each other in the main portion deformation occurs more easily in this embodiment than in the first embodiment.

In this embodiment a pair of front and rear seat frames is disposed. The seat frame may be fixed to a base and may be connected to the base to be tiltable. The forward end portion of the back frame device is fixed to a lower face of the base .

The present invention can be embodied in various forms other than the above embodiments. For example a forward end portion of a lower connecting portion of a back frame device is tiltable in a top view. That is for example tilting can be achieved so that right and left spaces of right and left forward end portions become wider as being close to the rear side. In addition the lower connecting portion may be formed in an arc shape in a top view.

Furthermore when a main portion of a back frame device is formed in a substantially V shape in a side view an upper face or a lower face thereof may be formed in a horizontal shape. The main portion of the back frame device may be also formed in a U shape opened toward the rear side in a side view.

In this description it is disclosed that the back frame device is composed of a plurality of the unit frames and the connecting portion of the back support frame is provided with the end portion extending in substantially front and rear directions and these can be embodied as independent inventions.

