---

title: Method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas
abstract: A method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas is disclosed. A laser beam is focused at a desired region within a gas or plasma to be analyzed, generating an ionized sample region in the gas or plasma. A beam of microwave radiation is directed toward the ionized sample region, and a portion of the microwave radiation is scattered by the ionized sample region and Doppler-shifted in frequency. The scattered, frequency-shifted microwave radiation is received by a microwave receiver, and is processed by a microwave detection system to determine properties of the gas or plasma, including velocities, temperatures, concentrations of molecular species, and other properties of the gas or plasma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07560869&OS=07560869&RS=07560869
owner: The Trustees of Princeton University
number: 07560869
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 722 025 filed Sep. 29 2005 the entire disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention was made with Government support. Accordingly Government has certain rights to the present invention.

The present invention relates to the determination of properties of objects. More specifically the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas.

In aerospace engineering and other disciplines it is often important to remotely monitor and determine properties of objects such as gases and plasmas. For example it is often desirable to remotely identify species of gases and plasmas as well as to measure selected state populations velocities rotational and vibrational temperatures themodynamic properties and nonequilibrium conditions which may exist in such gases and plasmas. Further the ability to remotely determine properties of gases and plasmas is especially useful in studying hypersonic flows immediately behind a shock in a wake or in a boundary layer region where complex velocity fields exist and where nonequilibrium states and chemical reactions may be occurring.

Resonant Enhanced MultiPhoton Ionization REMPI is a known ultra high sensitivity probing technique for detecting low concentrations of molecular species in gases. In REMPI a single tunable laser is used to ionize a region within a gas and properties of the ionized region are analyzed. REMPI is an effective spectroscopic tool because the multiphoton ionization cross section is strongly enhanced by resonant intermediate states. This enhancement can be due to single photon or multiphoton resonances. As a laser is tuned through these resonances the ionization yield reflects the spectrum of the resonances thereby providing an indication of molecular species in a gas.

In conventional REMPI applications low pressure gases are used and ionization is measured using electrodes or wire probes. A direct current DC potential sweeps charges out of the ionized region which generates a pulse of current through a detector system when the REMPI generated ionization occurs. REMPI has also been applied at higher pressures using small probe detectors and in flames using the conductivity of the flame which is in contact with two electrodes. However conventional REMPI applications are limited because of the need to sweep the charges out of the ionized region to facilitate detection. Further electrodes or wire probes must be in physical contact with the ionized region thereby preventing remote measurement and detection of properties of gases and plasmas.

A number of techniques have been developed for the measurement of velocities of gas flows. Velocity is a fundamental transport parameter in a gas flow and its measurement is of primary importance both for characterizing the flow and for validating predictive models of the flow. Often it is the velocity in a specific location that is of most importance such as the velocity close to a surface behind a shock or in the wake of an airfoil. Laser Doppler Velocimetry LDV and Particle Imaging Velocimetry PIV are known techniques for measuring flow velocities. However both limited by a random arrival of particles at a location of interest. In addition these methods suffer from particle slip in high speed flows and near surfaces where the particle density may be particularly low.

Flow tagging approaches have also been developed based on vibrational excitation of oxygen creation of NO and other approaches. However these approaches are not effective in high temperature environments where vibrationally excited molecules are already present and or radical chemical species may already be present. Velocity measurement by laser breakdown has been used but it introduces large perturbations into the flow and tracking of the breakdown by shadowgraph or schlieren limits this approach to flows with low complexity and simple geometries.

Temperature measurements in a high speed flow and in combusting environments are always difficult to perform. For instance intrusive probes perturb the flow or the combustion process. As a result various non perturbative approaches have been developed including Laser Induced Fluorescence LIF Rayleigh scattering and Coherent Anti Stokes Raman Scattering CARS . However each of these approaches has limitations. The LIF methods are subject to quenching errors and cannot easily be applied in air flows since there is no convenient fluorescing species. Rayleigh scattering is subject to interference from background light and relies on knowledge of the species mole fractions. In its most common implementation a Rayleigh measurement is of a density and so pressure must be known and the ideal gas law used to convert to temperature. CARS measurements are quite complex and proper fitting of spectral information becomes very difficult for complex gas mixtures.

Accordingly what would be desirable but has not yet been provided is a method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas which addresses the foregoing limitations of existing monitoring techniques.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas. A pulsed laser beam is focused at a desired region within a gas or plasma to be analyzed generating an ionized sample region. A beam of electromagnetic radiation such as microwave radiation is directed toward the ionized sample region. A portion of the electromagnetic radiation is scattered by the ionized sample region and depending on the velocity of the region relative to the source of electromagnetic radiation may be Doppler shifted in frequency. The time dependence of the scattered electromagnetic radiation amplitude depends on the local thermodynamic environment including the temperature density and species of the gas or plasma. In the case of a strong spark generated in the gas or plasma the amplitude time dependence also reflects the changing physical properties of the ionization region.

The scattered time dependent and frequency shifted electromagnetic radiation is received by a receiver e.g. a microwave scattering detector and processed by a detection system such as a heterodyne or homodyne microwave detection system to determine properties of the gas or plasma including velocities temperatures concentrations of molecular species and other properties of the gas or plasma. A second receiver could be used to provide two dimensional indications of velocity and a third receiver could be used to provide three dimensional indications of velocity. Separately located receivers can also be used to monitor the physical dimensions and refractive index changes of the laser generated ionization region by establishing time evolving scattering patterns from the relative signal strengths. Multiple electromagnetic transmitters and receivers operating at different frequencies may also be used to monitor the same laser generated ionization region to provide further information regarding the properties of the gas or plasma. A frequency tunable laser beam can be used to allow for precise remote measurements of species temperatures and non equilibrium states of gases and plasmas through signatures associated with the energies of the intermediate states.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for remotely monitoring properties of gases and plasmas. The present invention is operable with conventional REMPI techniques such as those shown in .

The microwave transmitter emits a beam of microwave radiation that passes through the region of ionization . The ionized gas in the region of ionization scatters the microwave radiation such that the frequency of the radiation is shifted by the Doppler effect depending upon the velocity of the region of ionization relative to the microwave transmitter and receiver . The time dependence of the microwave signal amplitude depends on the local thermodynamic environment including temperature density and species of the gas or plasma. If the region of ionization is created through spark generation the time dependence also reflects the changing physical properties of the region of ionization . Microwave scattering arises from an induced dipole associated with a small coherent plasma volume. The scattered frequency shifted microwave radiation indicated by reference numeral is then received by the microwave receiver . The frequency shift is a function of the projection of the moving gas velocity vector onto the bisector of the angle formed by the line extending between the microwave transmitter and the ionized region and the line extending between the microwave receiver and the ionized region .

Optionally a second microwave receiver can be provided at a different angle i.e. at an angle to the microwave transmitter other than the angle so that a second projection of the velocity vector can be measured. A third out of plane microwave receiver not shown could also be provided so as to generate a third projection of the velocity vector . Using three receivers a full three dimensional velocity vector can be remotely determined. The second microwave receiver and the third microwave receiver can each be connected to the homodyne or heterodyne detection system . It should be noted that separately located receivers can also be used to monitor the physical dimensions and refractive index changes of the region of ionization by establishing time evolving scattering patterns from the relative signal strengths. Further multiple microwave transmitters and receivers operating at different frequencies may also be used to monitor the region of ionization to provide further information regarding the properties of the gas or plasma. Additionally microwave detector arrays can be provided or a single detector can be moved about the gas or plasma to observe multiple pulses and to determine the microwave scattering pattern. In such a manner the size and refractive index of the ionization volume element can also be detected.

The frequency shift of the radiation generated by the microwave transmitter and measured by the microwave receiver and optionally the microwave receiver and a third microwave receiver if used is determined by the homodyne or heterodyne detection system . The system compares the frequency and or phase of the detected microwave radiation with either the frequency and or phase of the transmitted microwave radiation i.e homodyne detection or the frequency and or phase of a reference microwave source i.e. heterodyne detection to determine the frequency shift. Such shift provides an indication of the velocity of the moving gas region . The velocity of the ionized region also reflects the thermal motion of the gas thus providing an indication of temperature of the moving gas or plasma region . In such circumstances the frequency shifted scattered microwaves contain a range of frequencies that reflect the distribution of velocities associated with a particular temperature. The detected frequency shift of the scattered microwaves can be used to measure temperature of a gas by recording a distribution of frequency shifts that arise from the thermal motion of the gas. An advantage of this approach is that the temperature and velocity measurements are accomplished in a single laser pulse. The temperature causes the scattering plasma volume to consist of subsets of various velocity groups that each produce a Doppler shifted scattering. Thus thermal motion leads to a broadening of the microwave scattered signal.

The motion detected by the present invention is that of the coherent kernel since the scattering results from the induced dipole. The microwave scattered signal is broadened by the motion of the electrons. After a short equilibration time the temperature of the electrons falls to the ambient gas temperature which reflects the temperature of the neutrals. The fact that the electrons are thousands of times lighter than the neutral species causes the thermal frequency broadening of the scattered electromagnetic radiation to be significantly wider and thus more easily detected than if it were only scattered from the neutral species. The REMPI ionization process transfers very little momentum to the gas so the thermal motion is not strongly affected as long as the transferred energy is small and an explosion is avoided. If a flow is moving the ionized region moves with it and scattered electromagnetic radiation is frequency shifted by the Doppler effect. The frequency shift can be measured with the detector . For example a heterodyne detector that generates a beat frequency with a reference source can be used. Alternatively a homodyne detector that generates a beat frequency with a transmitting source can be used. The measured frequency shift can be converted to a specific velocity component since the location of the microwave source the scatterer and the detector are known.

The laser generated ionization region will continue to scatter the microwaves until the electrons are lost due to attachment or recombination. The rate at which the attachment or recombination occurs provides another measurement of the local properties of the gas or plasma. This rate can be shown to be strongly dependent on the local temperature and density and on the particular species that are present. If multiple electromagnetic sources and detectors are used to observe the ionization region at different wavelengths then due to the frequency dependence of the scattering process different properties of the local environment can be preferentially highlighted.

The focused pulsed laser beams implemented by the present invention produce a small volume non stationary plasma that is on the scale of tens of microns in diameter and less than a few millimeters in length. The incident electromagnetic radiation modulates the charge separation in that plasma creating an oscillating induced dipole. The wavelength of the incident electromagnetic radiation is in general much larger than the size of that plasma. If the skin layer 2 square root over 2 at the electromagnetic frequency and with plasma conductivity is greater than the characteristic size of the plasma all the electrons in the plasma oscillate in the same phase. As a result in the far field the plasma can be regarded as an induced point dipole radiation source of electromagnetic waves and the scattering falls into the Rayleigh scattering approximation. In that case the scattered electromagnetic signal level is directly proportional to the square of the number of electrons. The scattering pattern of the electromagnetic waves is a classical dipole pattern shape with no amplitude variation about the induced polarization axis and a sinusoidal variation in the azimuthal angle. On the other hand if the skin layer is small then some of the electrons are shielded. In that case the scattering falls into the Mie regime and no longer has a dipole character and the electromagnetic scattering amplitude will vary around the polarization axis in a manner that is associated with the size shape refractive index and conductivity of the ionized volume element. The Rayleigh range is particularly interesting since in that regime the electromagnetic scattering intensity provides a quantitative method for measuring the ionization evolution and electron loss process.

In the far field where the distance between the receiver and the plasma is much greater than the electromagnetic wavelength which in turn is much greater than the scale of the plasma L the total intensity of coherently scattered electromagnetic radiation averaged over a cycle can be found from the following expression 

where is the plasma radial frequency which is proportional to the square root of the free electron number density is the electromagnetic radial frequency vis the electron neutral collision frequency Iis the incident electromagnetic radiation intensity V is the volume of the ionization region N is the number of free electrons in the laser generated plasma and c e and mare constants corresponding to the speed of light the electron charge the free space permittivity and the rest mass of an electron. Note that the frequency of the electromagnetic radiation will change the scattering amplitude and also the sensitivity of the measurement of the electron neutral collision frequency so observing the ionization region with multiple electromagnetic frequencies provides more information about the local gas or plasma properties. In the collision dominated regime where v the effective total Rayleigh scattering cross section can be written as 

where is the angle between the polarization of the induced dipole and the direction of scattered signal. is the angle in the plane normal to the polarization vector and 0 is defined to be along the y axis orthogonal to the propagation direction of the incident electromagnetic wave. Note that for the experiments discussed herein below the laser propagates in the direction of the electromagnetic microwave polarization vector. This selection helps to assure that the induced polarization vector lies in the same direction as the polarization of the incident electromagnetic radiation.

There are two principal mechanisms for the generation of ions multiphoton ionization and avalanche breakdown. The avalanche breakdown requires that a low concentration of electrons be present in the gas and is the typical mechanism for high energy laser breakdown. It leads to high heating and a large electromagnetic scattering signal if the ionization region is illuminated with electromagnetic waves during and after the breakdown event. Multiphoton ionization requires very high intensity unless there are intermediate resonant states as in the REMPI process. In that case ionization can be achieved at much lower energies and is much less perturbative. In some cases with high energy REMPI pulses the REMPI process provides the initial electrons for a following avalanche process.

According to the simplified theory of avalanche optical breakdown the ionization rate under the applied laser field E Re Eexp i t can be expressed as 

where Eis the laser field strength is the laser radial frequency is the ionization threshold in joules usually given in electron volts which then must be multiplied by e the electron charge to get joules and Iis the intensity of the laser. It is assumed that the ionization during the avalanche phase is mainly due to the collisions between electrons and neutrals and that there is no energy loss for electrons other than ionization. These assumptions are valid for the initial stages of laser induced breakdown when the ionization rate is much greater than the losses due to recombination and diffusion. However these assumptions do not apply at the late stage of breakdown where electron electron collisions and Coulomb interaction dominate.

For room air N2 O2 4 1 the ionization threshold can be approximated as follows 0.8 0.2 14.77 eV Equation 5

At the initial stage of the breakdown the plasma volume is approximately the same as the laser focus size. Electrons mainly collide with neutrals and the electron number density n approximately follows the following relationship 

The expression for the microwave scattering signal intensity in terms of the parameters of the laser and the electromagnetic source during the precursor rise can be derived by combining Equations 2 and 6. The scattered electromagnetic signal intensity becomes 

During the typical precursor rise time when only avalanche ionization is included the plasma volume V the incident microwave intensity the electromagnetic frequency and the initial number density of electrons can be considered constant. Taking into account the condition of plasma transparency V from Equation 8 it follows that the scattered signal intensity is 

By recording the strength of the microwave radiation received by the microwave receiver as a function of the frequency of the laser beam the population of the various molecular energy states of specific molecules in the sample region can be determined. The presence of specific spectral features indicates the presence of corresponding molecules within the region . The strength of the scattered microwave radiation indicates the level of ionization and thus the population of the particular energy levels associated with a particular species. By comparing the strength of scattered radiation from one energy level to scattering from another energy level the relative population of the gas or plasma region can be determined. From this information if the molecules are in thermal equilibrium the temperature of the gas or plasma can also be determined. If the molecules are not in thermal equilibrium then a separate rotational and vibrational temperature can be determined if these modes have separately reached thermal equilibrium. Otherwise the relative populations of the energy levels provide a measurement of the non equilibrium state of the molecule under examination.

The microwaves scattered by the sample region are collected by the microwave receiver and are amplified by a broadband amplifier . The amplified signal is then passed into a mixer where the amplified signal is mixed with a reference frequency generated by the reference oscillator thereby producing a downshifted signal. A reference mixer beats a signal from the microwave transmitter with the reference frequency generated by the reference oscillator and provides a reference beat frequency to the lock in detector . The reference beat frequency is then used to the drive the lock in detector which selectively detects the frequency and phase of the downshifted signal. The heterodyne microwave detection system has exceptionally high noise rejection characteristics. The detection system could also be configured as a homodyne receiver that calculates frequency and or phase of the scattered microwave radiation by comparing same to the frequency and phase of the transmitted microwave radiation.

The laser produced a beam that was directed by reflectors and into a chamber after being focused by optics . A dumper collected and strongly attenuated the beam after it exited the chamber so that no reflective scattering from the beam was observed. A microwave horn a polarizer and an associated microwave transmitter not shown injected microwaves into the chamber . A portion of the microwaves were scattered by ionization region at the center of the chamber and the scattered microwaves were detected by microwave horns and . Joule meters and and their associated dichroic mirrors and allowed for measurement of the laser energy entering and exiting the chamber respectively.

For the experiment depicted in the microwave frequency was 12.6 GHz corresponding to a wavelength of 2.38 cm. This wavelength is long compared to the dimensions of the laser breakdown plasma which is approximately 3 mm in length and about 20 microns in diameter and falls into the Rayleigh scattering range. The microwave intensity from the source microwave horn transmitter was 8.8 W m. The results of the experiment are shown in which presents a graph of microwave scattering from a laser spark over time. The first trace represents microwave scattering by a laser pulse of 55 mJ. The second trace represents microwave scattering by a laser pulse of 40 mJ. The third trace represents microwave scattering by a laser pulse of 30 mJ. Scattering amounts were measured in arbitrary units A.U. ranging from 0.0090 to 0.0055. As can be seen different energy levels of the laser pulse produce different microwave scattering patterns. In particular the rise time of the scattering decreased with increasing laser energy as predicted by Equation 9.

The present invention can be implemented to remotely monitor a wide variety of properties of gases and plasmas. Examples include the remote monitoring of species temperature and transport properties for plasma aerodynamic magneto hydrodynamic processes high speed and complex airflows combusting gases and the remote measurement of atmospheric contaminants and hazardous gases. Further the present invention can be used as a diagnostic tool for studying conditions in a hypersonic flow immediately behind a shock in a wake or in a boundary layer region where complex velocity fields are expected and where nonequilibrium states and chemical reactions may be occurring. The laser can be focused to a spot on the order of tens of microns in diameter and hundreds microns long so that precise measurements at specified locations can be made. The laser also can be conditionally fired to sample time varying flow phenomena or precision timed for use in shock tubes exploding environments and other temporally changing environments.

The results shown in demonstrate that the received microwave signal from the precursor is consistent with microwave scattering that has a dipole radiation pattern. As such the precursor microwave scattering signal is a direct measure of the electron number density.

For applications of the present invention to longer range diagnostics such as might be of interest for long distance stand off detection it is useful to examine the effects of using multiple pulses either for time sequenced ionization or for the creation of multiple breakdown regions. To explore the time sequencing a double pulsed laser both pulses have a pulse energy 40 mJ pulse wavelength 532 nm pulse length 8 ns with an adjustable time delay was used to generate sequential laser sparks in air. The microwave scattering signals from sequential laser sparks is shown in . In each of the graphs line represents the microwave scattering and line represents the laser pulse. When the time delay is within a few nanoseconds there is no detectable difference between two sparks as shown in graph A. When the delay is about 30 nanoseconds the second peak generated by the second laser pulse produces a stronger precursor which corresponds to a higher electron number density as shown in graph B. When the delay increases to greater than 60 nanoseconds but still less than the peak of the spark evolution the second peak is lower than the first peak as shown in graphs C E. When the delay is longer than the 7 to 10 microseconds corresponding to the spark evolution peak a significant increase of precursor can be seen in graph F. This may be explained by rapid cooling causing the density at the core of the plasma to increase back to almost ambient density with a residual high electron density that facilitates ionization in the plasma region.

Simultaneous double laser spark studies were conducted using a single Nd YAG laser output laser pulse power 60 mJ pulse wavelength 532 nm pulse length 8 ns which was split into two beams by a 50 50 beam splitter. After focusing the two beams by two lenses with same focus length f 5 cm the microwave scattering signal for different separations between laser sparks was measured and is shown in . The curve shows the predicted intensity as a function of separation and the points show the measured values. The microwave source horn illuminated the breakdown points from the side so that one plasma region was illuminated before the other. The receiving horn was facing the breakdown points on the plane of symmetry between the two breakdown points. The skin layer of laser sparks at the microwave frequency is always greater than the size of the plasma so dipole scattering can be assumed. For coherent scattering the electric fields scattered from the two sources add together. The square of the total electric field is the measured power. Thus the peak power for two identical scatterers is four times the power measured from a single scatterer. As the separation is increased the path length difference increases and full cancellation occurs at a separation of half the wavelength or 1.15 cm in the case shown in . For incoherent scattering the intensities add and the detected signal is twice the single intensity. It can be seen from that the scattered intensity reaches four times the single spark when the separation is small and falls at close to the predicted rate for coherent scattering with separation. Thus the microwave scattering from two laser sparks is coherent. This experimental result reveals the possibility of using microwave scattering from a series of laser induced plasmas to enhance backward scattering.

Importantly detection by the present invention of ionization using microwave scattering eliminates the need for a local probe detector. As such the present invention allows for remote detection in gas flows and combusting environments that are at operational pressures including atmospheric pressure and in large scale devices such as wind tunnel facilities and combustors. Additionally the volume of plasma to be analyzed can be made very small and relatively non perturbative due to the sensitivity of the present invention to microwaves scattered by the plasma.

An advantage of the present invention is that velocity measurements of gases or plasmas can be precisely timed by the firing of the laser and precisely located with optical elements. Thus the present invention can be used with pulsed facilities such as shock and expansion tubes. Further ionization occurs as long as the laser is focused to high enough power so there is little sensitivity to flow parameters such as temperature and species mole fractions. At low densities the laser requires higher intensity to achieve breakdown but nevertheless the measurement of velocity is feasible.

The present invention is capable of measuring concentrations of species including minor species and radicals in the part per trillion range. A pulsed microwave system is used for the detection of such species. For example the presence of NO is of importance both for combustion and in hypersonic wind tunnels for the determination of the air quality and chemical reaction processes. When high sensitivity is achieved the present invention is capable of detecting combustion radicals. As such the present invention allows for the detection of pollutants and hazardous gases. Since a microwave system is used by the present invention analysis of gas flows is extendable to long ranges with radar which is useful for environmental monitoring. The measurement of the scattering by microwave has high sensitivity because there is very little background noise at the microwave frequency and heterodyne methods can be used for detection.

Having thus described the invention in detail it is to be understood that the foregoing description is not intended to limit the spirit and scope thereof. What is desired to be protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the following claims.

