---

title: In-situ mask removal in selective area epitaxy using metal organic chemical vapor deposition
abstract: A method for removing a mask in a selective area epitaxy process is provided. The method includes forming a first layer on a substrate and oxidizing the first layer. A patterned photoresist can be formed on the oxidized first layer. A portion of the oxidized first layer can then be removed using a wet chemical etch to form a mask. After removing the patterned photoresist a second layer can be epitaxially grown in a metal organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) chamber or a chemical beam epitaxy (CBE) chamber on a portion of the first layer exposed by the mask. The mask can then be removed the mask in the MOCVD/MBE chamber. The disclosed in-situ mask removal method minimizes both the atmospheric exposure of a growth surface and the number of sample transfers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07288423&OS=07288423&RS=07288423
owner: STC.UNM
number: 07288423
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060106
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 641 735 filed Jan. 7 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed under Contract F49620 03 1 0133 between the University of New Mexico and the AFSOR and Contract MDA972 00 1 0024 between the University of New Mexico and DARPA Clemson. The U.S. Government may have certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to selective area epitaxy and more particularly to a method for in situ mask removal for use in selective area epitaxy.

Selective area epitaxy SAE has been used in the fabrication of advanced devices and circuits including for example edge emitting lasers buried heterostructure lasers patterned nanostructures and integrated optoelectronic devices. In an SAE process a dielectric mask defines window areas on a substrate. Using chemical beam epitaxy CBE or metalorganic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD eptaxial growth is then confined to those window areas.

Problems arise however because common dielectric mask materials such as SiOor SiNrequire an ex situ hydrofluoric acid etch for removal. Moreover processing schemes typically involve several sample transfer steps to accommodate oxide layer deposition and patterning outside of the growth chamber a SAE in the growth chamber followed by mask removal outside of the growth chamber and finally an overgrowth process. Each exposure of the growth surface to atmosphere can result in contamination that leads to surface degradation traps and nonradiative recombination centers.

Thus there is a need to overcome these and other problems of the prior art to provide a method to remove a mask material using an in situ etch step that minimizes both the atmospheric exposure of a growth surface and the number of sample transfers.

In accordance various embodiments a method for forming a semiconductor device is provided. The method can include forming an AlOlayer on a first layer and patterning the AlOlayer by forming a first region and a second region wherein a thickness of the second region is greater than a thickness of the first region. The method can further include placing the patterned AlOlayer disposed on the first layer in a growth chamber and then removing the first region of the AlOlayer to expose a first portion of the first layer. A second layer can be epitaxially grown on the exposed first portion of the first layer and the second region of the AlOlayer can be removed to expose a second portion of the first layer within the growth chamber.

In accordance various other embodiments another method for removing a mask in a selective area epitaxy process is provided. The method can include forming a first layer on a substrate and then forming an AlOlayer on the first layer. The AlOlayer can be patterned by forming a first region and a second region wherein a thickness of the second region is greater than a thickness of the first region. The patterned AlOlayer disposed on the first layer can be placed in a growth chamber and a mask can be formed by exposing the patterned AlOlayer to a hydrogen flow at about 900 C. wherein the hydrogen flow removes the first region of the AlOlayer to expose a first portion of the first layer. A second layer can be epitaxially grown on the exposed first portion of the first layer and the mask can be removed to expose a second portion of the first layer by introducing into the growth chamber an etchant comprising HCl in a hydrogen carrier gas.

In accordance various embodiments a semiconductor device is provided. The semiconductor device can be formed by a method including forming an AlOlayer on a first layer and patterning the AlOlayer by forming a first region and a second region wherein a thickness of the second region is greater than a thickness of the first region. The patterned AlOlayer disposed on the first layer can be placed in a growth chamber and a dielectric mask can be formed by removing the first region of the AlOlayer to expose a first portion of the first layer. A second layer can be epitaxially grown on the exposed first portion of the first layer. The second region of the AlOlayer can be removed to expose a second portion of the first layer using an in situ etch.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification illustrate an embodiment of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 1 to 5.

According to various embodiments of the present teachings depicted in an SAE process is provided that includes a dielectric mask that can be removed using an in situ etch. As used herein the term in situ refers to a process step or process steps within the growth chamber of for example a CBE or MOCVD device. In particular the present teachings disclose exemplary growth and processing sequences that can be used to form and remove an AlOmask including formation of a very high quality AlOmask atomically smooth GaAs InGaAs SAE in situ mask removal and GaAs overgrowth.

Referring to a method for forming a semiconductor device is provided. At a first layer can be formed on a substrate. As shown in a substrate can be for example a GaAs oriented substrate. Substrate can be deoxidized and a first layer can be formed on substrate . In various embodiments first layer can be a buffer layer comprising GaAs.

At a dielectric layer such as an AlOlayer can be formed on the first layer. Referring again to an AlOlayer can be formed on first layer . According to various embodiments AlOlayer can be formed by first forming an AlGaAs layer on first layer and oxidizing the AlGaAs layer. The AlGaAs can be converted to AlOin a standard oxidation furnace at for example 425 C.

At a photoresist layer can be deposited on the AlOlayer and patterned using photolithographic methods know to one of ordinary skill in the art. As shown in a patterned photoresist layer can be formed on AlOlayer . Then at the AlOlayer can be patterned for example by a wet chemical etch of undiluted HCl. shows patterned AlOlayer formed by etching AlOlayer . Patterned AlOlayer can include one or more first regions and one or more second region . Second regions can be protected from etching by patterned photoresist while first regions can be formed by etching away AlOsuch that a thickness of second regions is greater than a thickness of first regions . After etching patterned photoresist can then be removed. Because etching removes only a part of the AlOin first regions the growth surface can be completely protected from atmospheric exposure e.g. exposure to Oor HO during subsequent transfer from for example a clean room to a MOCVD chamber. Thus according to various embodiments steps to can be performed in a clean room.

Patterned AlOlayer disposed on first layer can then be placed into a chamber also referred to herein as a reactor such as for example a CBE chamber or MOCVD chamber at . Referring to the first regions of AlOlayer can be removed to form a mask that exposes portions of first layer . According to various embodiments first regions can be removed by exposure to a hydrogen flow at a temperature of about 900 C. This exposure can also remove carbon residual oxygen and other contamination from the exposed surface of first layer .

At selective area epitaxy can then be performed. shows growth of a second layer on the exposed portion of first layer . Second layer can be grown by for example CBE or MOCVD. In various embodiments second layer can comprise GaAs. Because a slow growth rate along with a low V III ratio can prevent is landing on the remaining AlOmask of region growth rates of second layer can be less than about 7 sec. The V III ratio refers to the relative flow of the periodic table column V species to the column III species in the reactor. According to various embodiments a thickness of second layer can be about 600 nm.

After selective area epitaxial growth of second layer second regions forming the mask can be removed in situ using for example HCl in a hydrogen carrier gas at . In preparation for mask removal the reactor temperature can be reduced and stabilized at about 300 C. under AsHoverpressure. In various embodiments an HCl flow rate of about 250 sccm sec can provide an etch rate of about 1.6 sec at about 300 C. While not intending to be limited to any one theory it is believed that the mask removal by HCl gas can be explained by the following equation AlO 6HCl 2AlCl HO 1 

At the chamber temperature can be increased to about 600 C. in preparation for an overgrowth process. As shown in a third layer can be formed. Third layer can comprise for example GaAs formed using gas flows similar to the SAE step of . In various embodiments third layer can have a thickness of 100 nm or more.

An exemplary process for in situ removal of a dielectric mask in an SAE process will now be provided. A GaAs substrate was deoxidized at about 900 C. for 5 minutes under a hydrogen flow during to remove carbon residual oxygen and other contamination from the substrate surface. A first layer comprising GaAs was then grown on the first layer. A 300 thick AlGaAs layer was then formed on the GaAs first layer and a thin GaAs cap layer was formed on the AlGaAs layer. In a clean room the GaAs cap layer was removed using NHOH HO HO 1 1 400 to expose the AlGaAs surface for oxidation. An AlOoxide layer was formed by wet thermal oxidation of the AlGaAs layer. While the oxidation process and mask patterning can be performed in the clean room the growth surface can be completely protected because the mask can be removed in the MOCVD or CBE chamber during subsequent processing.

The oxide layer was then patterned using a standard photolithographic technique to form 10 m photoresist stripes on a 20 m pitch. A wet chemical etch of undiluted HCl was used to remove the exposed oxide. As shown in the wet etch process can partially remove the oxide layer in region thus protecting the growth surface of first layer from atmospheric exposure. The photoresist was then removed and the sample was loaded into the MOCVD system

Prior to SAE the AlO patterned GaAs sample was treated at 900 C. for 5 minutes under a hydrogen flow to form a mask. The mask was formed by removing regions of the oxide layer and exposing the surface of the GaAs first layer. Growth of the second layer comprising GaAs on the exposed portions of the GaAs first layer was accomplished using a AsHflow rate 15 sccm sec Trimethylgallium TMG flow rate 2.1 sccm sec. V III ratio 7.5 and a growth rate 4 sec. The SAE process resulted in a 600 nm GaAs second layer grown on the surface of the GaAs first layer.

Scanning electron microscope examination of the edge of the GaAs stripe oxide mask interface confirmed a highly selective growth in the open mask regions with no evidence of GaAs islanding or growth on the AlOsurface. The second layer comprising GaAs had an RMS roughness of about 0.0246 nm. The mask surface had an RMS roughness of about 3.157 nm. The oxide surface had a size and density of about 20 50 nm and about 3 10cm respectively.

After the SAE step the oxide mask was removed in situ using HCl in a Hcarrier gas. The reactor temperature was reduced and stabilized at 300 C. under AsHoverpressure. The arsine valve was closed and the valved HCl line was opened. An HCl flow rate of 250 sccm sec provided an etch rate 1.6 sec at this temperature.

While the GaAs layer of Region was slightly roughened by the etch it was still atomically flat with an RMS roughness of about 0.0968 nm. The GaAs surface previously covered with the oxide mask region had an RMS roughness of 1.4908 nm. While the source of the surface roughening is unclear it may result from the oxide GaAs interface at the time of oxidation and it may be due to a slight etch of the GaAs during the oxide removal process.

The in situ etch process was also characterized as a function of temperature. According to various embodiments both the etch rate and the surface of the GaAs first layer under the mask can be significantly improved if the in situ etch is performed at higher temperatures. This trend is likely due to the increased molecular decomposition of HCl at T 550 C. The entire oxide mask about 300 can be completely removed in 10 seconds at 550 C. compared to the 500 seconds required at 300 C.

After the in situ etch step the chamber temperature was increased to 600 C. in preparation for the overgrowth process. The GaAs overgrowth to form the third layer about 100 nm used gas flows similar to the SAE step.

In various other embodiments the in situ mask removal process can be used in the growth of buried nanopatterned heterostructures such as for example growth of a buried single InGaAs 120 quantum wells QW . The QW can be grown under the conditions described above and emit RTPL at 1.075 m. The in situ etch process at 300 C. does not significantly affect the optical properties of the capped active region. The etch process at 300 C. can also be quite selective in that 30 nm of oxide can be removed from regions without significantly affecting the 20 nm GaAs cap layer in region .

According to various embodiments this exemplary processes can be used to fabricate any structure that requires selective epitaxial deposition on a substrate including but not limited to semiconductor lasers semiconductor detectors and structures involving patterned quantum dot deposition.

While the invention has been illustrated with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications can be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular function. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

