---

title: System and method for accessing SMASH-CLP commands as a web service
abstract: Systems and methods for accessing Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware (SMASH)-command line protocol (CLP) commands as a web service are provided. In one form, an information handling system having access to CLP commands within a SMASH includes an application program interface operable to provide access to CLP commands using a universal resource locator (URL) address. The system further includes a translator operable to convert the URL address into a CLP command and a command parser operable to parse the CLP command to execute the command. Responses to URL encoded CLP commands are communicated via the web service to a client and presented within the client's web browser.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07751428&OS=07751428&RS=07751428
owner: Dell Products, LP
number: 07751428
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060717
---
The present disclosure generally relates to systems management and particularly to a system and method for accessing SMASH Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware CLP Command Line Protocol commands as a web service.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option is an information handling system. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements may vary between different applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

One type of system for accessing and managing hardware components within an information handling system is SMASH Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware . SMASH is an initiative from the DMTF Desktop Management Task Force that defines Command Line Protocol CLP as a standard human oriented management interface for accessing managed systems in data center. The syntax and semantics of the commands for CLP as well as how the commands get transferred over the network using character based protocols such as telnet or Secure Socket Handler SSH are defined by the CLP specifications.

SMASH CLP is an emerging standard that has received industry wide support as the next generation interactive mode interface for managing a variety of devices. However SMASH CLP has several hurdles to overcome prior to becoming widely accepted and easily utilized. Foremost most newcomers to SMASH CLP face a steep learning curve prior to becoming efficient in SMASH CLP. For example new users must learn at a minimum a new command language new console applications and new protocols. Other problems or challenges to overcome include implementation requirements for SMASH CLP by accessing either a telnet protocol which has security deficiency or a SSH protocol which may incur overhead for lightweight devices. As such what is needed is a system and method to reduce the learning curve associated with SMASH CLP while maintaining sufficient security and minimal overhead for process limited devices.

As indicated above the following description in combination with the Figures is provided to assist in understanding the teachings disclosed herein. The following discussion will focus on specific implementations and embodiments of the teachings. This focus is provided to assist in describing the teachings and should not be interpreted as a limitation on the scope or applicability of the teachings. For example much of the following focuses on systems and methods for encoding Command Line Protocol CLP commands for server management systems as a web service. While the teachings may certainly be utilized in this application the teachings may also be utilized in other applications and with several different types of architectures such as distributed computing architectures client server architectures or middleware server architectures.

For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control entertainment or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer a PDA a consumer electronic device a network server or storage device a switch router or other network communication device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include memory one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more storage devices one or more communications ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

In one embodiment an information handling system having access to command line protocol commands is provided. The system includes an interface operable to provide access to command line protocol CLP commands received in response to a CLP encoded universal resource locator URL address initiated by a browser based client. The system further includes a translator operable to convert the CLP encoded URL address into a CLP command and a processor operable to execute the CLP command at least partially based on a target identified within the CLP encoded URL address.

In a further embodiment a method of providing access to command line protocol CLP commands using an information handling system. The method includes the steps of receiving an encoded command line protocol CLP command request within a universal resource locator URL address from a browser based client and determining a target identifier within the URL address. The method further includes executing the CLP command on the target.

In another embodiment an information handling system operable to process command line protocol associated command information for providing access to command line protocol commands. The system includes an application interface operable to provide access to command line protocol CLP commands using a universal resource locator URL address. The system further includes a translator operable to convert the universal resource locator address into a command line protocol command and a command parser operable to parse the command line protocol command to execute the command.

Client allows for input of a CLP command as query term provided within URL address input field using standard URL syntax and sent via an HTTP request to the URL address of information handling system hosted by a CLP enabled device. In this manner a CLP user friendly target instance may be embedded as part of a URL address. Information handling system is operable to receive the encoded URL address and perform decoding functions as needed. For example a decoder not expressly shown may exist as a part of information handling system operable as a web server or may co exist within CLP server . In one form a proxy server not expressly shown for a native CLP implementation of decoding and encoding may also be provided.

During operation a user inputs a URL address within URL address input field to be communicated to information handling system for exposing a portion of an application program interface API to access commands within CLP server having an associated MAP. The URL address includes a base URL portion a target ID portion and a query portion which are combined to form a URL address. One example of a URL address may be 

Base URL portion includes a host name and user login information based on one or more specifications for accessing CLP commands within information handling system . For example base URL portion may include a format such as jdd.test acme.com 5959 where jdd is the user who logins to host test acme.com using port 5959. In the example shown information handling system would be responsive to URL addresses including acme.com. A user would also input a target ID for accessing one specific access point or device. For example a target ID value may include system 1 to identify system 1 or server 1 using the MAP of CLP server . Various types of device or components may be accessed using target ID as described below.

Query portion includes the desired CLP command provided as a query after entering a . For example the question symbol in a URL address indicates that a query is being made and arguments for the query follow the . However instead of providing standard query arguments a CLP command line such as show level all is provided to access the status of all components associated with system1. When information handling system receives a request from client having a URL format including a valid base URL target ID and query parameter portion information handling system employs one or more processes to execute the CLP command line using CLP server . In this manner a user need not access a telnet prompt specific terminal etc. to execute CLP commands.

In one embodiment since show is the default verb for a query a simple URL can be constructed without query parameter portion . For example leaving query portion blank will correspond to a CLP command line show which is used to display the attributes of the current default target or a target identified within target ID portion . In another embodiment URL encoding rules may need to be applied when a reserved character set of URL overlaps with some reserved characters used by CLP syntax. For example a space between characters is encoded as 20. 

In one embodiment a user may input complex CLP commands based on general URL grammar rules for queries and separated by ampersands . For example the following key words are used to define corresponding CLP command terms as a means to form a URL input 

For example a user may access a CLP command such as show level all system1 by entering verb show option level optionarg all as a query parameter within query parameter portion and system1 within target ID portion . As such a user of client may realize an increase in the usability of CLP commands by using web browser address bar for entering CLP commands from a remote location to access CLP enabled devices as a web service provided by information handling system . Additionally information handling system need only include a modified web server for detecting and processing URL addresses having encoded CLP commands and further accessing a CLP command processor to perform command encoding and decoding functions.

Information handling system further includes a web server or application which includes a URL translator operable to receive URL requests from a client . URL requests may include accessing a various forms of content or applications provided in association with a website. URL translator further includes logic associated with detecting queries for accessing CLP commands when provided as standard syntax with a portion of a URL address.

CLP server MAP may be provided either resident to information handling system or as a proxy server. CLP server MAP includes a command parser a CLP command processor a resources status interface and a response encoder . For example information handling system operable as a CLP enabled system provides access to CLP command verbs that manipulate command targets representing Managed Elements ME that are within the scope of access by a MAP.

Information handling system operable as a CLP enabled system provides the ability to enumerate and configure server hardware for an associated server within and managed by a MAP using CLP server MAP . For example server s and associated components may be provided within the scope of access of CLP server MAP . In one embodiment information handling system may discover the current hardware configuration and properties system settings and local I O devices. Additionally information handling system may provide some amount of configuration for local disk drives including local arrays not expressly shown . Information handling system further allows for initial logical unit creation for installation and or provisioning of servers such as server s . Information handling system may also include the ability to select control and initiate the transfer of software updates or images. For example CLP enabled information handling system may include a software installation service such as a Centralized Installation Manager CIM not shown at for installing software. Information handling system may also control the boot configuration of any supported server and support for heartbeat and operating system status information may be provided.

Information handling system further provides access to additional features of other server state controls such as power control intervention capability to halt reset or shutdown a server and mechanisms to initiate a dump of the operating system. CLP enabled information handling system may also access and manipulate any accessible logs view and set remote status displays LEDs and alarms configure alert destinations and initiate a session with a remote text based console device such as client .

Information handling system includes logic to comply with Command Line Protocol CLP which defines the form and content of messages transmitted and responses received by client communicatively via a network. Client may include a browser such as browser illustrated in and configured to access various network locations through use of a universal resource locator address.

The method begins generally at step when a client makes a request to access a CLP command for a CLP enabled information handling system by entering an encoded CLP command within a URL address used with a standard web browser having an address portion for inputting URL addresses and the request is received at a client system. At step a user enters a base URL portion of the URL address which includes an identifier to authenticate the user. In one form a user may enter an address using a Representational State Transfer REST format. REST is a format for inputting resource and user identifiers for accessing resources such as CPL commands within a CPL system and is well suited for use in association with a web service for accessing CLP commands for a CLP enabled information handling system. As such a user may enter a base portion of the URL address by concatenating a host name of the CLP enabled system and user login information.

Upon entering a base URL value at step a user enters a target ID value for MAP Manageability Access Point value within the URL address field after the base URL potion. The MAP value is a target identifier to identifying a targeted system. For example a user may enter values such as system1 fan1 system2 etc. to access various points within a system or topology of devices.

At step a user may then enter a CLP parameter portion after entering a within the URL address. The indicates that a query is to be performed and one or more values or parameters will be provided following the . above illustrates several parameters and values that may be provided as a query. In one embodiment a parameter may need not be provided following a for accessing or executing a CLP command. For example if a parameter is not present a default command may be executed such as a show command.

Upon entering an encoded a URL address a user may select an enter go send button for a browser and at step the client system sends the URL encoded request to the destination provided within the URL encoded address. At step the destination receives the request and employs a service such as a web service for handling the encoded URL address. For example the web service may be provided as a part of a CLP enabled system or may be provided as a separate application or application program interface resident on a separate server or system. Upon receipt of the request at step the host name and user login information is validated and upon validation at step the encoded URL address is processed to determine a target ID value. For example a target ID value may include a reference such as system1 to identify system 1 or server 1 that fall within the scope of a MAP Manageability Access Point . Various types of devices or components may be accessed.

Upon determining a target ID the method proceeds to step to determine if a query parameter exists within the encoded URL address. If a query parameter exists the query parameter is translated and parsed to convert the query format into a CLP command format and determine the requested CLP command and any additional attributes or parameters requested for execution. If at step a query parameter is not present a default command such as show is set at step .

At step the requested or default command is executed in compliance with a Command Line Protocol. For example the command system1 fan2 would access server s second fan to determine the operating status. Results are obtained at step by a CLP enabled system and if the results are to be formatted as shown at step the results are then translated into a format at step that may be used by the requesting client. In one embodiment a requested CLP command can set a default output format to be the XML format. In this manner a user need not specify the output e.g. output clpxml option in each command. For example the results may be provided using a universal mark up language such as XML HTML etc. and transmitted at step to the requesting client. At step the client receives the XML formatted response to the CLP encoded URL address request and the response is converted to HTML using Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations XSLT and displayed to a user within a browser at step . In this manner a user may make a request to access CLP commands using an URL address and receive responses to commands within a browser window as a part of a web service thereby reducing the amount of interaction required by a user to access CLP commands for managing servers systems hardware etc.

In one form a request or response may be presented to a user via an encoded hyperlink provided for presentation within a browser. For example a response may be returned for a specific command and one or more objects presented within a browser may be encoded to include URL address encoded CLP commands for accessing CLP commands. In this manner a user may need only provide a portion of a URL address for accessing a CLP enabled system and a response from a CLP enabled system employing a web service for accessing CLP commands may provide a response that includes objects such as images hyperlinks etc. having encoded CLP commands. Upon a user selecting an encoded object or hyperlink at the method proceeds to step and step and formats the encodes the URL address with the command to access the CLP enabled system for processing the CLP command.

Each server cluster may include one or more blade servers having accessible components a back plane power supplies or various other components that may be accessed through a MAP of CLP enabled information handling system . CLP enabled information handling system employs a Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware Command Line Protocol SMASH CLP specification which enables simple and intuitive management of heterogeneous servers such as blade servers in a data center.

The SMASH CLP specification addresses the end user requirement for a common command line syntax allowing systems offered by different vendors to be managed in similar ways. For example a CLP service employed by a server or system is designed to apply to a number of server topologies and is suited to manage one or more server clusters. SMASH CLP builds on a Distributed Management Task Force DMTF Common Information Model CIM Schema and enables remote as well as local management of server hardware in both Out of Service and Out of Band management environments. SMASH CLP delivers server management capabilities independent of machine state operating system state server system topology or access method.

During operation a user of client provides a URL address including a base URL value a target ID value and query parameter values within a URL address field of a web browser . CLP enabled information system provides a mechanism for client to access and indicate to MAP requests for accessing CLP commands and a language desired by the client for formatting responsive data received by CLP command requests. For example CLP enabled information management system may support various languages and depending on the requested language output data is presented to the user of client with the appropriate translations. Service and subsequent responses are transmitted back to client . Each command transmitted generates one response data transmission to client that includes the requested information for systems and devices that fall within the scope of MAP .

In one embodiment CLP enabled information handling system allows management applications to provide for efficiently navigation of entire object trees with in the CLP address domain of MAP . For example an object topology map can be constructed by issuing a CLP command of show level all . A response to a command may include outputting an XML format response which can be translated by a client side XSLT application to display HTML web pages that allow users of client to easily drill down or select links for objects providing access to individual objects or properties using point and click links images icons etc. displayed within a browser window for client . In this manner various objects associated with MAP may be remotely accessed and displayed for a user at client using a web based user interface and associated web service provided by CLP enabled information handling system based on a desired output format for information requested from client .

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

