---

title: Smart sensor continuously adapting to a data stream in real time using both permanent and temporary knowledge bases to recognize sensor measurements
abstract: As the present invention's adaptation process is typically practiced, an observation made by one or more sensing element(s) is classified as being either recognized or unrecognized in the context of a knowledge base. If the observation is classified as being recognized and consistent, then the observation is assimilated into the knowledge base; otherwise, it is not assimilated. If the observation is classified as being unrecognized, then the observation is classified as being uncorroborated in the context of the knowledge base. Prior to being classified as being uncorroborated, the unrecognized observation is categorized in the context of the knowledge base and is associated with an outcome in terms of relationship between/among physical parameters. At the time that corroboration is determined, the observation (originally unrecognized) and its categorization-related and association-related information are assimilated into the knowledge base.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07624080&OS=07624080&RS=07624080
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07624080
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060225
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 656 511 filed 25 Feb. 2005 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Adaptive Sensors for Aircraft Operational Monitoring joint inventors Miguel A. Morales and David J. Haas.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Incorporated herein by reference is a Computer Program Listing Appendix which sets forth an embodiment of computer source code in accordance with the present invention. The inventors refer to this embodiment of their computer program product as ADAPTIVE SENSOR. This Computer Program Listing Appendix is contained as a text document that was created on 24 Feb. 2006 in a CD R compact disc that is now situated in the application file. The CD R compact disc contains one data file in ASCII file format about 489 KB entitled Adaptive Sensor Source Code.txt. 

The present invention relates to smart sensors more particularly to algorithms for effecting adaptive learning by standard sensors.

Sensors have been referred to as smart if their information can be manipulated to achieve a specific outcome. According to a typical smart sensor this manipulation of information is accomplished mainly through the use of simple rules. In principle perhaps even one rule would suffice to attach the smart label to a sensor notwithstanding the limited functionality of a single rule brand of smartness nevertheless a smart sensor is usually characterized by plural rules. As smart sensor technology continues to develop these rules are becoming increasingly numerous and interdependent and are being modularized into software constructs known as intelligent agents. See Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig Prentice Hall Second Edition 20 Dec. 2002.

Currently known smart sensors carry out tasks of greater complexity than in the past but remain a function of the derived knowledge of some expert. It would be desirable for a smart sensor to be capable of deriving its knowledge directly from its measured data using data processing algorithms. The development of a robust strategy for sensor adaptation during regular operations would constitute an important advance in the evolution of sensor technology. Artificial neural networks have been considered for achieving new generation smart sensors that are attributed with some form of adaptability. See Laurene V. Fausett Prentice Hall 9 Dec. 1993 however neural networks are significantly limited as their models provide little physical insight into a given problem and require many examples to achieve a good understanding of the problem.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a methodology for effecting a kind of sensor smartness whereby the sensor learns acquires knowledge entirely on its own in an adaptive manner and on a continuous basis.

The present invention provides an adaptive sensor methodology according to which learning is conducted outside a controlled environment. Viability of the inventive methodology presupposes that a sensor is properly calibrated and does not malfunction. The present invention succeeds in harnessing and implementing new knowledge in shorter periods of time in fact new knowledge can be utilized as soon as it becomes available. According to typical inventive practice the capability and functionality of a sensor are minimal at inception and gradually build up to high standards. This growth process can take place as part of regular operations thereby obviating dedicated data collection and testing and attendant costs.

A typical inventive method for effecting smart sensing comprises a classing a current observation as being either recognized or unrecognized in the context of a permanent knowledge base b if the current observation is classified as being recognized determining whether an outcome associated with the recognized current observation is consistent with an outcome of at least one other measurement that exists in the permanent knowledge base and that constitutes a basis for the recognition c if the outcome associated with the recognized current observation is consistent with an outcome of at least one other measurement assimilating information into the permanent knowledge base the assimilated information including the recognized current observation and at least one characteristic of the recognized current observation if the current observation is classified as being unrecognized d categorizing the unrecognized current observation in a hierarchal structure in a temporary knowledge base e associating the current observation with an outcome and f determining whether the unrecognized current observation is corroborated if the unrecognized current observation is determined to be corroborated g assimilating into the permanent knowledge base information that includes the corroborated current observation and at least one characteristic of the corroborated current observation. The corroboration typically includes i recognition of the unrecognized current observation in view of at least one other observation is subsequently caused texist in said temporary data base and ii consistency of the outcome associated with the unrecognized current observation with an outcome of at least one other measurement that is subsequently caused to exist in the temporary data base. According to frequent inventive practice the unrecognized current observation is placed in a first temporary knowledge base e.g. a temporary depository until the conclusion of the event run e.g. flight during which the unrecognized current observation has been rendered whereupon the unrecognized current observation is placed in a second temporary knowledge base.

The present invention s advanced algorithm improves sensor capabilities through effectuation of an adaptive strategy involving the extraction categorization and fusion of sensor data. Integration of the present invention s strategy with standard sensors results in an inventive adaptive sensor that can improve its functionality over time that is an inventive adaptive sensor is capable of continuous learning resulting in continuous improvement. In addition the present invention s adaptive strategy is designed to preclude propagation of incorrect information a common problem in conventional learning models. The present invention s robust strategy for sensor adaptation during regular operations is believed by the present inventors to represent a significant advance in the evolution of sensor technology.

Fundamentally the present invention s adaptive sensor is a robust paradigm for continuous learning suitable for implementation in a variety of endeavors. According to typical inventive practice the primary functions of the inventive adaptive sensor are to determine relationships between multiple parameters directly from measured data and to produce one or more quantities of value for an examiner or user. The inventive algorithm is capable in real time of recognizing and assimilating new information corroborating previous information and identifying inconsistencies in the data stream. The inventive algorithm also possesses a natural resiliency against error assimilation and ultimately improves sensor capabilities with time.

The inventive adaptive sensor determines relationships between multiple parameters directly from measured data in real time outside a controlled environment. The present invention s unique operation integrates an adaptation process that allows these relationships to improve with time as the algorithm expands its knowledge base dynamically. In addition the relationships remain valid at every step of the process through the adjustment of the algorithm s operating domain. Ultimately the inventive adaptive sensor produces a quantity of value for an examiner or user that can be readily assimilated or used to perform decisions. This process can take place as part of regular operations thereby bypassing the need and cost of dedicated data collection as well as improving the turnaround time for the use of new information.

The inventive adaptive sensor exhibits adaptation in the sense that its capabilities result over time in improvements to sensor functionality. The knowledge structure utilized by the inventive adaptive sensor is hierarchical and localized and as such possesses a natural resiliency against error assimilation. A typical adaptive sensor in accordance with the present invention features the estimation of physical quantities by one or more standard sensors sensing elements and the capability to manipulate and learn from that information. For instance an airspeed indicator produces a reading based on differential pressure not actual airspeed that is through the use of a well known physical relationship the airspeed sensor determines airspeed by processing associated measurements.

The present invention s adaptation methodology presupposes that knowledge assimilation is gradual continuous cumulative and has no natural termination. The inventive methodology is thus designed to acquire and incorporate new information for as long as it is active. As typically embodied the present invention features independent mechanisms for observation recognition categorization association and assimilation. According to typical inventive practice these mechanisms are integrated together in order that the entire inventive process be fully automated.

Observation is an activity that is carried out directly by a sensor. Each time a sensor takes a measurement it is in effect performing an observation that may contain essential new knowledge. Before the present invention s assimilation of new information is to take place each current measurement must first be classified as recognized known or unrecognized unknown .

The assessment of a current measurement as being known indicates that the current measurement is sufficiently similar to a measurement previously incorporated into the knowledge base. If in addition the outcome is consistent with one or more previous measurements outcomes in the same known region the information contained in the measurement is assimilated directly into its corresponding unit in the knowledge structure thereby increasing confidence in that piece of knowledge.

In contrast an assessment of a current measurement as being unknown indicates that the current measurement is distinct from all information stored in the knowledge base. As a result the current measurement must first be categorized and associated.

Categorization serves to associate the current measurement with elements in the knowledge base that are similar to it from a global perspective. This allows the assignment of general attributes to measurements that fall within a given group as well as the determination of boundaries for those properties.

Once the measurement has been categorized it is then associated with a particular outcome. The association of a monitored state with an outcome constitutes a goal of the present invention s adaptive sensor. The inventive association includes relating the measured value of one or more parameters representing a physical state to the value of another parameter that is presumed to be dependent on these quantities such that 1 where P is the value of the parameter of interest and is a function of n variables being measured by an array of sensors. However because the existence of such a relationship is uncertain measurements must be verified in every instance. If a dependent relationship exists it is expected that similar measurements taken in subsequent instances will result in a close approximation to the dependent parameter value originally recorded such that 2 holds true for xsufficiently small.

In order to prevent the formulation of an invalid relationship a mechanism for knowledge assimilation is utilized. While the association of quantities is performed for every measurement that has been recognized as unknown their assimilation does not take place unless and until there is sufficient corroboration that the association being considered is valid and reliable. Independent events must be defined in accordance with the application in order to serve as the sources for corroboration. For instance in the case of commercial aircraft operations different flights may serve as independent events. In the case of trucking business operations different road trips may serve as independent events.

Once an association has been successfully corroborated it is assimilated and becomes part of the permanent knowledge base. With the assimilation of new knowledge the adaptation process as to such new knowledge has been completed and the sensor has successfully improved its capabilities by virtue of having enhanced its knowledge base. If the association however shows inconsistencies during corroboration assimilation does not take place.

The present invention represents a strategy that is capable of continuous learning is insensitive to error propagation and results in continuous improvements in sensor capabilities. The inventive disinclination to error propagation is especially beneficial for measurements taken in the field i.e. outside a controlled environment which are especially at risk of containing incorrect information. Most conventional learning strategies take a global approach at capturing knowledge. A variety of conditions including sensor malfunction and or improper sensor calibration can rapidly propagate incorrect information through conventional learning paradigms and can even result in the complete loss of previously learned and validated relationships. Conventional learning paradigms such as Back Propagation See the aforementioned Laurene V. Fausett are noteworthy for distributing knowledge across their basic knowledge structure units known as nodes. As a result incorporation of new knowledge is necessarily distributed through the entire structure. The degree to which new knowledge is assimilated on this type of paradigm can be controlled through a variable referred to as the learning rate. The learning rate is an empirical number the determination of which is challenging for optimal performance.

The present invention s adaptation methodology overcomes a particularly difficult problem of conventional continuous learning paradigms namely their dependence on learning rate to control the degree to which new information is assimilated. Learning rate is a particularly challenging quantity to determine for optimal performance. The problems associated with the learning rate variable are two fold viz. the trivialization of new information by a low slow learning rate and the overemphasis of new information by a high fast learning rate. In the absence of any approach for setting the proper learning rate value the risk of model degradation e.g. in terms of non assimilation of new information or loss thereof is high. A variety of conditions such as sensor malfunction and or improper sensor calibration can rapidly propagate incorrect information through conventional learning paradigms and can even result in the complete loss of previously learned and validated relationships. This is because these conventional learning strategies take a global approach to capture and distribution of knowledge capturing and distributing the knowledge across their entire structure.

Unlike distributed learning strategies the present invention s methodology utilizes a localized learning approach in which units are kept independent of each other. In this way errors are not propagated through the structure but rather are confined to the particular unit or units associated with that event. Once an error is discovered the affected units can be readily identified and deleted or they can be marked and used to identify similar errors in the future. Moreover according to typical embodiments of the inventive methodology information is not trivialized since each unit though independent is equally significant in the inventive model and is in fact accessed directly when required.

The present invention has no limitation regarding the number of examples necessary to construct a valid model. Conventional multi dimensional modeling techniques and paradigms such as those involving artificial neural networks are significantly limited because they require a significant number of examples to achieve a good understanding of a given problem and further because they have no available way of determining when a reliable number of examples has been reached. The present invention s adaptive sensor are not beset with such shortcomings since the sensor s capabilities and functionality can be minimal at inception and can gradually build up to high standards.

The inventive model is valid and unbiased at every step of its construction. The present invention provides a unique strategy for continuous learning. As distinguished from conventional paradigms the inventive adaptive sensor is largely insensitive to error assimilation and propagation and generates a hierarchical structure of its knowledge base. The present invention s ability to model a problem is superior in analysis and understanding. In marked contrast are artificial neural networks which have been disparagingly referred to as black boxes for their inability to model a problem in an intuitive fashion.

Modeling multi dimensional parameter interdependencies directly from measured data is a challenging activity because the relationships are usually poorly understood and the information is often incomplete. Artificial neural networks have proven to be suitable for application to such problems due to their high learning curve yet they have several disadvantages. Their resulting models provide little physical insight into a problem they utilize the learning rate parameter for learning they require a significant number of examples to achieve a good understanding of a problem and they have no way to determine when a reliable number has been reached. Other techniques can be utilized such as regression and expert systems but they are not as adept as artificial neural networks at modeling complex multi dimensional relationships and boundaries. Neither artificial neural networks nor any of the other conventional techniques possess a hierarchical and localized knowledge structure. The present invention s hierarchal and localized knowledge structure uniquely succeeds in preventing the assimilation of errors in the data stream.

The present invention s advanced algorithm can execute the extraction categorization and fusion of sensor data thereby improving sensor capabilities. Integration of the inventive strategy with standard sensors results in an inventive adaptive sensor that is capable of improving its functionality over time. The present invention s adaptation methodology is suitable for application on sensors of practically any kind. The imparting of data processing capabilities to standard sensors is becoming increasingly commonplace as such data processing capable devices provide information that can be directly used and the gathering of information by monitoring systems is becoming increasingly routine. The present invention does not entail sensor calibration. Rather the present invention provides a methodology that is capable of optimizing the utilization of available information. Sensors that utilize more than one measurement to display their information are particularly well suited for inventive practice. The inventive adaptive sensor represents a robust paradigm for continuous learning is designed to withstand the rigors associated with implementation outside a controlled environment and is capable in real time of recognizing and assimilating new information corroborating previous information and identifying inconsistencies in the data stream.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to and the present invention s smart sensor includes a sensing element and a computer which includes a processor and a memory storage . Computer stores in its memory information including the following the present invention s algorithm which is processed by processor provisional storage regions and which contain the uncorroborated measurements observations that are rendered by at least one sensing element along with related information including inventively processed information pertaining to the corresponding categorizations and or associations of the measurements and knowledge base into which are assimilated only those measurements along with related information including inventively processed information pertaining to the corresponding categorizations and or associations of the measurements that quality for assimilation in accordance with the present invention s algorithm . According to frequent inventive practice plural e.g. multiple sensing elements are connected to computer in the same inventive smart sensor system.

Algorithm performs a first threshold determination viz. as to whether a newly rendered current measurement by a sensing element is known synonymously referred to herein as recognized recognizable or familiar or unkown synonymously referred to herein as unrecognized unrecognizable or unfamiliar . This first threshold determination includes comparison of the newly rendered measurement with at least one previously rendered measurement that has been previously assimilated into knowledge base . If the first threshold determination is that the newly rendered measurement is known the newly rendered measurement is compared to a second threshold to determine whether the measurement associated outcome is consistent with e.g. within an assigned tolerance of the previous measurement associated outcome s . If this second threshold determination is that such consistency exists the measurement characteristics are assimilated into knowledge base which is contained in memory .

Pursuant to the first threshold determination inventive algorithm assesses a newly rendered measurement to be known if the current measurement is considered by inventive algorithm to be sufficiently similar to a measurement that has been previously incorporated into the knowledge base . If the newly rendered measurement is deemed known then the activities of categorization and association are not performed since categorization and association have previously been defined for one or more previously assimilated measurements i.e. previously assimilated into knowledge base with respect to which the current measurement is jointly categorized and similarly associated. If the known measurement is deemed consistent pursuant to a second threshold determination the details of the information contained in the known newly rendered measurement are assimilated into knowledge base . If the known measurement is deemed inconsistent pursuant to the second threshold determination none of the information contained in the known newly rendered measurement is assimilated into knowledge base . This consistency versus inconsistency determination inquires whether the measurement s outcome is sufficiently similar to within tolerance of the outcome s of measurement s in the known region to be assimilated in the knowledge base .

If the newly rendered measurement is deemed unknown then the activities of categorization and association are performed. A newly rendered measurement that is deemed unknown is one which is distinct from all information already stored in knowledge base and hence requires further processing prior to the possibility of assimilation of newly rendered measurement .

Inventive association includes the relating of the value of one or more parameters representing a physical state to the value of another parameter such that the aforementioned Equation 1 holds true. Furthermore the inventive methodology postulates that the aforementioned Equation 2 holds true for xsufficiently small. An important aspect of inventive association is the notion of the confidence interval viz. the region of multi dimensional space that can be associated with a particular value of a dependent parameter with known certainty of being within a prescribed error margin. Inventive assimilation takes place if certain conditions are met in particular the processes of recognition and association determine whether assimilation will occur. In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention upon the rendering of a new measurement there are four possible scenarios as follows a measurement in known space with consistent association b measurement in known space with inconsistent association c measurement in unknown space with consistent association and d measurement in unknown space with inconsistent association.

A consistent measurement in known space is defined in accordance with the relationship P P E where E is the error margin or tolerance. If known and consistent assimilation of the newly rendered measurement in knowledge base takes place. The region centroid location is modified the parameter association is modified and confidence is increased. As the number of measurements becomes large modifications become insignificant and the region reaches stability.

An inconsistent measurement in known space is defined in accordance with the relationship P P E . If known and inconsistent assimilation of the newly rendered measurement in knowledge base does not takes place. The region cetroid location is not modified the parameter association is not modified and the event is flagged as inconsistent.

For a measurement in unknown space a new temporary region node is generated having the characteristics of the newly rendered measurement including its association. Actually according to typical inventive practice this new information is initially placed in a first encounter provisional storage region . At the conclusion of the event e.g. the flight the same information is placed in a different storage region viz. corroboration pendency storage region which represents a temporary knowledge base similarly as knowledge base represents a permanent knowledge base. The information is situated in corroboration pendency storage region awaiting possible corroboration. If at some future point in time the unknown measurement situated in corroboration pendency storage region is found to be recognized and consistent i.e. one or more similar measurement from one or more distinct subsequent events corroborate s the region the region becomes permanent i.e. is assimilated into knowledge base . If on the other hand at no time is the unknown measurement found to be both recognized and consistent i.e. no similar measurement from a distinct subsequent event corroborates the region the region remains inconsistent that is the inconsistent measurement does not become permanent i.e. is not assimilated into knowledge base . In other words the term corroboration as used herein in the context of inventive practice refers to the conjunction of recognized input and consistent output that is corroboration recognition of measurement input consistency of measurement output i.e. associated outcome .

As noted hereinabove if the first threshold determination is that the newly rendered measurement is unknown then the newly rendered measurement is categorized and associated. The newly rendered measurement is categorized e.g. grouped together with at least one previously rendered measurement that has been previously assimilated in the data representation. The measurement can also comprise its own category if sufficiently different from all other measurements resident in the knowledge base . This is especially true at the start of the inventive learning process. Further the newly rendered measurement is associated with a physical phenomenon that bears a physical relationship with the newly rendered measurement. Categorization of a newly rendered measurement serves to develop a hierarchical structure for the knowledge base . The association of the newly rendered measurement includes relating newly rendered measurement to a physical parameter that is a function of at least one variable. In other words association includes the establishment or definition of a relationship between an observation and at least one physical parameter wherein the relationship is characterized by variation of at least one physical parameter in accordance with at least one other physical parameter at least one physical parameter being representative of the observation or the observation s category. Typically newly rendered measurement is a raw measurement representing a first physical parameter that bears a relationship to at least a second physical parameter that differs from the first physical parameter and that tends to be more meaningful or informative in the context of the application.

Categorization and association having been performed by algorithm algorithm then places the measurement on temporary provisional storage i.e. in a temporary or provisional knowledge base viz. corroboration pendency region to await corroboration at the time a similar and independent event is encountered. Categorization involves the placement of a measurement within a hierarchical structure typically placed with similar measurements. Until corroboration occurs if it occurs the measurement is not assimilated into the permanent knowledge base viz. knowledge base . Once corroboration occurs the measurement is assimilated into the permanent knowledge base viz. knowledge base .

If the second threshold determination is that the newly rendered measurement and its association with another physical parameter are consistent then the newly rendered measurement information together with information pertaining to its categorization and or association is assimilated into knowledge base . On the other hand if the second threshold determination is that the newly rendered measurement and its association with another physical parameter are inconsistent then the newly rendered measurement is not assimilated into knowledge base . Some inventive embodiments provide for storage e.g. for possible future reference of known but inconsistent measurements in one or more special data sections of memory such data sections being contained in memory but being separated from permanent knowledge base temporary knowledge base and first encounter base which are also contained in memory .

Note that a first threshold determination that a newly rendered measurement is known obviates the need for any of the subsequent activities including categorization and association. Knowledge base contains measurements that are known and consistent e.g. including measurements deemed known pursuant to the first threshold determination and deemed within tolerance pursuant to the second threshold determination . The first and second threshold determinations are analogous in that both involve comparative reference to existing measurement data assimilated in knowledge base . The first threshold determination is essentially whether the newly rendered measurement is close enough to any already assimilated measurement data the second determination in contrast is essentially whether the newly rendered measurement has a similar association as the already assimilated measurement data.

Reference is now made to and which are illustrative of the first threshold determination. in particular graphically depicts the present invention s activity of recognition including the known versus unknown decision in three dimensional space. Sensors x y and z take measurements at times tand tthat map to particular locations in three dimensional space. The dashed lines bound enclose regions R regions R Rand Rare shown in where previous measurements have been taken and have been assimilated into knowledge base . As a result any measurement that falls inside of within regions R is considered to be known while any measurements that falls outside of without regions R is considered to be unknown.

The activity of categorization serves to associate the newly rendered measurement with elements in knowledge base that from a global perspective are similar to newly measurement . General properties or attributes are assigned to measurements that are grouped together and the parameters of the grouping are set. Once the newly rendered measurement has been categorized it is then associated with a particular outcome. The categorization of newly rendered measurement facilitates the development of a hierarchical structure that can be particularly useful during detailed analysis of the inventive algorithm . The ultimate objective of the present invention s adaptation process is the association of a monitored state with an outcome.

The association operation cannot be executed unless the desired outcome is itself being concurrently monitored. Relationships can only be established between monitored quantities. However the value of establishing such relationships must be called into question if the desired outcome quantity is available to begin with. As it turns out there are many instances where the inventive methodology has significant value. Some of the most notable examples include flight tests lead the fleet programs See D. White and E. Wagner Fatigue Life Analysis of Helicopter Dynamic Components in the U.S. Army Lead the Fleet Program Proceedings of the 59Annual Forum of the American Helicopter Society Phoenix Ariz. May 6 8 2003 incorporated herein by reference future fleets back up models and infrequent high risk cost missions.

According to typical inventive embodiments association includes relating one or more newly rendered measurements each reflecting a measured value of a physical parameter e.g. a parameter representing a physical state to the value of another physical parameter that is presumed to be dependent on these the newly rendered measurements . This dependency is such that 1 where P is the value of the dependent parameter of interest and is a function of n variables newly rendered measurements being measured by plural e.g. an array of sensing elements . Because the existence of such a relationship is uncertain measurements must be verified in every instance. If a dependent relationship exists it is expected that similar measurements taken in subsequent instances will result in a close approximation to the dependent parameter value originally recorded such that 2 holds true for xsufficiently small. This can be generalized to say that the value P is expected within a given tolerance P P within a confidence interval where the changes xare defined.

Assuming that all sensing elements are operating properly if Equation 2 does not hold true for xsufficiently small then it can be concluded that the presumed relationship is incomplete or incorrect. Usually there is a physical indication that the quantities considered are related prior to their study nevertheless if the extent of that relationship is unknown then a reliable association may not be obtained. In order to prevent the formulation of an invalid relationship a mechanism for knowledge assimilation is utilized in accordance with the present invention. The association of quantities is performed for every newly rendered measurement that has been deemed to be unknown pursuant to the first threshold inquiry however the assimilation of a given newly rendered measurement does not take place until there is sufficient corroboration that the association being considered is consistent i.e. validates the previous measurement . According to typical inventive embodiments corroboration is obtained from one or more events or contexts that differ from that which encompasses the newly rendered measurement . For instance in some applications pertaining to aircraft operations corroboration takes place only on flights distinct from the flight in which the original recording is taken. In this way the effects of sampling frequency and possible anomalous behavior can be removed.

Once an association of newly rendered measurement s has been successfully corroborated that association is assimilated into knowledge base . The association thereby becomes part of the permanent knowledge base of smart sensing device . With the assimilation of this new knowledge the inventive adaptation process is complete as to this new knowledge smart sensor thus having successfully improved its capabilities by virtue of enhancing its knowledge base. If the association however shows inconsistencies during corroboration assimilation does not take place. Furthermore a substantial growth in the number of uncorroborated associations with little or no assimilation indicates that the parameter association in question is inappropriate and that a new parameter association needs to be formulated.

An important aspect of the inventive methodology is the assessment of similarity. The term similarity itself implies the existence of a reference from which comparisons can be drawn. This reference is also conceptualized as a region in the knowledge base . Given that according to typical inventive practice multiple sensor measurements are being taken and associated to an outcome through the use of an implied relationship each reference can be conceived to take the form of a single location in multi dimensional space where the corresponding measurement for each sensor constitutes a single dimension. From this reference distances in every dimension can be prescribed to establish boundaries and define a confidence interval. shows a confidence interval in 3 dimensional space drawn from a central reference location M.

As shown in lengths l 2 l 2 and l 2 each extending from reference location M are assumed to be independent from one another in correspondence with the general case. Different choices can be made resulting in different shapes. For instance if all three length components in the above example are taken to be the same the resulting figure is a square and calculating the magnitude of this 3 dimensional vector results in a sphere. Once a confidence interval is established new measurements can then be compared to all available reference locations and be deemed to be similar or distinct. When a measurement is outside the confidence interval of all reference locations i.e. outside the knowledge base that measurement is labeled as unknown. Because the present invention s learning process is ongoing the reference locations and their outcome associations are allowed to change with time but only based on measurements that are within its original confidence interval and are consistent with previous outcome values. The reference locations eventually reach a stability state where the number of measurements mapped is large and changes become trivial.

Reference locations M can also be arranged globally in accordance with a tree structure. For principles on tree structures see Ellis Horowitz and Sartaj Sahni Computer Science Press Inc. New York N.Y. 1984. A tree structure approach can permit the determination of features and properties that are region specific in multi dimensional space thereby facilitating identification of sensor malfunctions and anomalies during implementation. and illustrate the formation of a simple tree structure shown in from a set of measurements in three dimensional space shown in wherein measurements are represented as small spheres . The extensive light colored three dimensional volumetric region in indicated as region Root covers the totality of measurements taken by sensors X Y and Z and corresponds to the Root of the tree shown in .

Still referring to and these measurements can be further separated into groups possessing more specific qualities. For this example the measurement from sensor Y is preserved at the top of the tree hierarchy resulting in high Y measurements grouped inside elliptical three dimensional region A and low Y measurements grouped inside irregularly shaped three dimensional region B. Three dimensional region B can be further subdivided into high medium and low Z measurements resulting in elliptical ellipsoidal three dimensional regions C D and E respectively these are positioned at the second hierarchical level. Sensor X measurements are medium and high but have already been separated into elliptical ellipsoidal regions C D and E due to the grouping of sensor Z measurements. At this point the categorization task is completed and the tree halts its growth. Also indicated in are the respective centroids for each three dimensional region i.e. centroid r for region Root centroid a for region A centroid b for region B centroid c for region C centroid d for region D centroid e for region E. Note that centroid b i.e. the centroid for region B is outside regions C D and E because of the two dimensional categorizations for both X and Z.

A traditional aircraft airspeed indicator displays a measure of the flow velocity based on the difference between total and static pressures as measured by a pitot static probe. See Raymond W Prouty Rotor Wing International Phillips Publishing Company June 1993. However in order to translate differential pressure into airspeed a relationship between these quantities is necessary. As a result the measurement from the pitot static probe undergoes some degree of processing before airspeed information can be presented to the pilot and hence conforms to the requirements set forth for adaptation. Furthermore if true airspeed were selected for display on the indicator temperature measurements would also be necessary and compressibility effects would need to be calculated. This would result in multiple sensor measurement sources and additional processing. Naturally as the complexity is increased so does the knowledge necessary to carry out the task. The relationships that allow the calculation of airspeed from differential pressure in this example have been known for many years and can be applied seamlessly without concern. However if these relationships were unknown necessitated would be a robust strategy capable of extracting knowledge from collected measurements as they become available such as provided by the present invention.

During a flight test an aircraft is extensively instrumented but this level of instrumentation rarely migrates to the fleet. As a result a substantial number of monitored quantities do not continue to be monitored during regular fleet operations yet their information may still be valuable to the pilot or an analyst. If relationships between the migrating monitored quantities and the non migrating monitoring quantities can be established additional information can be preserved. Lead the fleet programs are similar to flight tests in that a single aircraft is comprehensively instrumented and monitored in an effort to gather as much information as possible without going to the expense of instrumenting the entire fleet. In this case however the instrumented aircraft is required to fly a severe flight maneuvering envelope prior to other aircraft in the fleet in order to account for the variation in aircraft usage. This ensures that the usage for the entire fleet is covered. Since the instrumented aircraft is continuously monitoring multiple parameters in advance of the fleet aircraft the knowledge extracted from this aircraft can immediately be used to benefit the remainder of the fleet as it becomes available. This example represents a type of situation that is well suited for an inventive adaptive sensor.

Another good application area of the present invention s adaptive sensor technology is in the design of monitoring systems e.g. for automobile or aircraft fleets machinery in a factory medical patients etc. . This is because they allow the discovery of dependent parameter relationships and lead to the optimization of the parameters selected for monitoring a given system or process. Even when the same set of related parameters is monitored in the next generation system their relationships can still be used to establish back up models in the event outcome parameters malfunction or are lost. This prevents the loss of information that in some cases may last for an extended period of time until the problem is identified and fixed. Furthermore the recognition and categorization functions in the inventive adaptation process can be used to corroborate adequate operation of the monitoring system an approach that can be inventively practiced for quality assurance of the monitoring system. In addition the inventive adaptive sensor algorithm can be applied as a data mining tool to automatically identify novelties in large quantities of monitored or recorded data.

Another example of suitable applications for inventive technology is in high risk and or high cost missions that are performed infrequently such as NASA s Space Shuttle missions. In such applications collected information is a highly valued commodity that demands thorough analysis. Any knowledge that can be extracted can be of critical value for the next mission. By their very nature in terms of need for information analysis and knowledge extraction these applications are well suited for the present invention s adaptive sensor methodology.

Reference is now made to through . A prototype of the present invention s adaptive sensor is currently undergoing developmental flight testing onboard several Navy SH 60 helicopters. The function of this inventive adaptive sensor is to determine aircraft gross weight during steady hover conditions. The following paper co authored by the present inventors discusses certain aspects of the present invention in general and the present invention s aircraft gross weight adaptive sensor embodiment in particular and is incorporated herein by reference Miguel A. Morales and David J. Haas Adaptive Sensors for Aircraft Operational Monitoring 45AIAA ASME ASCE AHS ASC Structures Structural Dynamics and Materials Conference 19 22 Apr. 2004 Palm Springs Calif. The proceedings of this conference are available from the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics AIAA website http www.aiaa.org .

This application is particularly well suited for the present invention s sensor adaptation because the original sensor had only limited information available to establish a relationship between gross weight and several monitored parameters. Informative regarding the relationship between gross weight and other parameters is another paper co authored by the present inventors viz. Miguel A. Morales and David J. Haas Feasibility of Aircraft Gross Weight Estimation Using Artificial Neural Networks American Helicopter Society 57Annual Forum Washington D.C. May 9 11 2001 incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention s adaptive sensor strategy was integrated with sensors from an aircraft monitoring system the U.S. Navy s SH 60 helicopter being designated the target application. In earlier testing forty two validation flights originating from three distinct aircraft helicopters were performed for purposes of evaluating this inventive prototype. More recent developmental flight testing has created an opportunity to further expand on the previous knowledge and improve sensor capabilities. As Morales and Hass note the inventive technology has applicability to other aircraft systems as well. Aircraft sensing represents one of many technological areas having much potential for inventive practice as it is desirable that the next generation of aircraft sensors be able to readily extract and assimilate knowledge as it becomes available to provide pilots as well as data examiners with information that can be readily assimilated or directly used to make decisions.

In accordance with the U.S. Navy s testing of the present invention s aircraft gross weight adaptive sensor the gross weight information is shown to the pilot through the onboard HUMS cockpit display as it becomes available. A time stamp defines when the estimation is obtained. During the flight test the logging of aircraft gross weight is carefully controlled providing the information necessary for improving the relationship. The motivation for constructing this embodiment of an inventive sensor stems from the need to automate the determination of gross weight. Often poorly maintained logs and errors in estimating gross weight can result in the airframe being structurally penalized because the highest operational weight must be assumed in the absence of reliable data. In addition keeping an accurate accounting of the aircraft gross weight during missions such as vertical replenishment VERTREP can be quite burdensome to the crew especially during military operations in potentially hostile environments. As a result the flight test can lend justification to the value of sensor adaptation because the information acquired during this time can be directly transferred to the rest of the fleet where automatic gross weight determination is desired.

The present invention s gross weight adaptive sensor as implemented on the SH 60 aircraft utilizes the measurements of four sensors in the HUMS system to ultimately determine the gross weight. These measurements and their ranges are shown in . Given the physics of the problem the low radar altitude measurement is categorized into in ground or out of ground effect. These are conditions that correspond to distinct flight regimes with significantly different aerodynamic characteristics. For pertinent information in this regard see the aforementioned Raymond W. Prouty . By performing this gross categorization of altitude recognition of the current state is improved with only a minimal loss in accuracy due to the loss of continuity of the parameter.

The composite of the resulting measurements is a vector of four dimensions corresponding to a very specific location in multi dimensional space. Vectors occupying neighboring locations possess very similar features and when used to determine a relationship they can be assumed to be associated with similar outcomes as stated hereinabove by Equation 2 . The accuracy of this statement is in actuality a function of the gradient at each local region. Nevertheless it is reasonable to assume that a sufficiently small region can be defined such that the gradient effects if any are negligible within the region allowing the grouping of these vectors or conversely a tolerance can be defined for the interval.

To conduct this operation in a structured fashion a modified version of the Competitive Evolutionary Neural Tree or CENT network is utilized by the present invention as typically practiced. Informative regarding CENT neural trees is R. G. Adams K. Butchart and N. Davey Hierarchical Classification with a Competitive Evolutionary Neural Tree Volume 12 Number 3 April 1999 incorporated herein by reference. The main function of the CENT paradigm is to perform hierarchical classification of unlabelled datasets. The CENT has the ability to self determine the number and structures of the competitive nodes in the network without the need for externally setting parameters. Moreover the CENT can halt the network s growth using locally calculated heuristics. These capabilities do away with the limitations encountered in cluster analysis and self organizing maps both of which require a preset number of nodes to perform their analysis.

However modifications were significant and necessary because structure formation in the CENT is unstable and can take very different development paths dependent on the choices of a series of arbitrary empirical values and the order of the measurements processed. These properties are undesirable from the standpoint of repeatability and stability. Therefore fundamental modifications were made to the CENT paradigm to correct these problems. While the concept of competition is kept the concepts of activity random competitive spawning relative activity comparison growth stimulation constant growth potential and comparative Sum Squared Error SSE gain have all been discarded along with their associated empirical variable values. Without these concepts the problem set up complexity is reduced dramatically. In particular the new approach has the advantages of ensuring accuracy of estimation within a known region being insensitive to a large number of observations in the same space and implicitly providing a mechanism to halt new region formation. Furthermore repeatability and stability are implicitly achieved.

As suggested by its name the CENT makes use of a tree structure to represent the associations embedded in a given dataset. This has considerable advantages. Besides the well defined hierarchy this strategy is inherently more stable than flat representations as updates to the structure can be restricted to just the current sub tree. Because measurement errors usually result in distinct vectors the CENT strategy will immediately set these apart in a particular node or branch.

Since the present invention s algorithm as typically embodied incorporates principles of CENT inventive algorithm is characterized by a natural resiliency against bad data and therefore excels at continuous learning. Even if the vector were to fall within a valid local group the outcome value would be in sharp contrast with the prevalent value and the invalid vector information would not be assimilated. Furthermore the contradiction triggers an event indicating an inconsistency has been found so that further analysis can be performed. This eventually leads to the identification of sensor malfunctions. and illustrate these conditions. The case where a bad measurement falls within a valid local group with an associated outcome consistent with that group is also possible but does not merit consideration since the inventive model is not affected.

With a hierarchical structure in place the present invention s tasks of recognition and association can be easily implemented. Recognition is performed by using as a reference the centroid of local groups or nodes in the structure and enforcing the confidence intervals such as discussed hereinabove with reference to through . These intervals can be defined by design or by experiment may vary or remain the same for every dimension and can be uniformly or individually applied to every node. In this study the confidence interval is a hyper rectangle corresponding to different levels of confidence for every dimension general case is uniformly applied to every node and is determined by design. The first three measurements in are expressed in percent. As a result the confidence intervals are likewise defined in these terms. All intervals originally were constrained to be within 5 however engine torque was further adjusted to 3 and collective stick position to 4 . Because radar altitude is categorized into in ground and out of ground effects represented by a bi polar number 0 1 it does not require a confidence interval. Radar altitude simply fits into a single state.

In order to enforce the confidence limit the closest reference node to the new composite measurement must be identified first. This includes tentative new nodes described below . This operation is accomplished by calculating the Euclidean distance between the vectors defined as 3 E is the Euclidean distance between the vector X and the jnode prototype Y. Equation 3 can be expanded in terms of the vector components to square root over . . . square root over . . . square root over . . . 3.1 

Whenever a composite measurement is within the confidence interval of the closest reference node it is considered to be recognized and is accordingly categorized in that node. Its information specifically its associated outcome gross weight for this case is then compared to the prevailing associated outcome for the node. If the results are consistent the new information is assimilated and used to increase confidence. Assimilation is carried out using Equation 4 and Equation 5 immediately set forth hereinbelow 

In the instant aircraft sensor application a maximum error of 500 lbs constitutes the desired error tolerance for every node. If this is not the case the measurement is flagged as inconsistent and undergoes further analysis. The new information in this case is not assimilated. However if the measurement is outside the confidence interval a new tentative node is created. Nodes of this type are not part of the knowledge base but are kept for an extended period of time in separate storage until they can be corroborated by a subsequent measurement from a distinct flight. Only when this node is successfully corroborated is it assimilated and becomes a permanent part of the knowledge base .

The original knowledge base for the present invention s prototypical gross weight adaptive sensor was obtained from three flight tests of the H 60 aircraft. The first flight test was a flight loads survey on an SH 60B conducted by Sikorsky Aircraft. The second flight test involved an SH 60B aircraft and was conducted at the Naval Air Warfare Center in Patuxent River Md. as part of the Air Vehicle Diagnostic System AVDS Program. For information regarding the U.S. Navy s AVDS Program see David J. Haas and Carl G. Schaefer Jr. Air Vehicle Diagnostic System Technology Demonstration Program Proceedings of the 55International Annual Forum of the American Helicopter Society AHS pages 2357 2372 Montreal Quebec Canada May 25 27 1999. The third flight test involved an HH 60J and was conducted at the Naval Air Warfare Center in Patuxent River Md. Each of these data sources and their respective contributions are shown in . The gross weight for these tests ranges from 15 830 lbs to 25 130 lbs.

With reference to in order to implement the present invention s recognition process precedent to inventive adaptation the original knowledge base was arranged into a tree structure consisting of forty seven nodes defined by the neural tree algorithm. The true structure separated at its first hierarchical level into in ground effects lefthand branch as shown in and out of ground effects righthand branch as shown in and subsequently subdivided based on the remaining parameters. From this baseline additional information obtained from the developmental flight test of the HUMS system is used to execute the inventive adaptation. The data considered for this process corresponds to three distinct SH 60B aircraft based on both the east and west coasts and spans approximately a three year period. During this time many different tests were performed and only a fraction of the flights could be used for inventive adaptation. Forty two flights with dedicated time spent in steady hover were utilized.

Data composition profiles for radar altitude temperature and gross weight are given in and . As can be seen from through the temperature and altitude distributions cover a comprehensive range of operations through the most common weight range flown by the SH 60 thereby demonstrating the diversity of the data. It should be noted that the temperature parameter is known to play an important role in engine performance as well as aircraft aerodynamic response. However the temperature parameter is not explicitly used by the inventive model since it is assumed that the contribution from the temperature is reflected in the control parameters already used by the model. This assumption is later verified by the lack of inconsistencies encountered during inventive adaptation.

Because adaptation in accordance with the present invention is a time dependent process improvements to the knowledge base and hence sensor capability are presented at several discrete times in order to appreciate the effects and benefits of the inventive process. The present invention s gross weight adaptive sensor as currently implemented for testing purposes on the aircraft is similarly updated at discrete times that is the present invention s gross weight adaptive sensor is not allowed to adapt onboard the aircraft due to flight clearance issues. Nevertheless the inventive gross weight adaptive sensor is concurrently implemented on a ground station and in a flight simulation environment where it retains all its functions it is at these locations that the novel states are stored evaluated and incorporated into the sensor s knowledge base. Novel states are also recognized onboard the aircraft but are not stored. Inventive sensor adaptations are then implemented during software upgrades. Since its inception two upgrades have been conducted. For convenience the adaptation results illustrated in and have been chosen to coincide with these upgrades.

All flights taking place after the second update are used to verify the sensor results assuming that the sensor has been transitioned to a fleet aircraft. This dataset is referred to as the validation set. Because the fleet aircraft does not inventively adapt the value and performance of the inventive adaptive sensor as a final application can be assessed. shows the regions of activity for all flights and shows the accuracy of the relationship obtained from inventive sensor adaptation for the validation flights only. Notice that previous flights must follow adaptation constraints and be within 500 lbs any previous flights that are otherwise will be labeled as inconsistencies. The number of flights considered for each dataset as well as the knowledge base improvements are quantified in .

It should be pointed out that although the set consisting of the last 24 flights is labeled as the validation set in actuality all instances shown in through constitute validation events. This is because the nodes have already been corroborated by the time they become part of the knowledge base. As a result the instances shown in through effectively provide further corroboration or validation of the knowledge base. The only real difference between these sets is that inconsistencies are readily identified during updating whereas this is not done for the validation set. For this study only one inconsistency was found during updating and its effect was limited to delaying the assimilation of a single node.

Performance results shown in are given using a 45 plot where the reported gross weight at the time the measurement is taken is compared to the gross weight reading from the inventive adaptive sensor. Ideally results should lay along the 45 line solid line . However if this is not the case scatter becomes evident. This scatter represents the error between what is deemed the correct gross weight value e.g. best available record of pilot logged gross weight and the adaptive sensor reading. In order to better assess the accuracy of the predictions 500 lbs error bands dashed lines are superimposed in the figure. The relevance of selecting 500 lbs as the limit is tied to the desired accuracy of the sensor. As can be seen in there are only three instances out of one hundred thirty two instances where these limits are exceeded. The errors for these three instances are 653 lbs 658 lbs and 812 lbs. The first two instances are valid errors but are only around 150 lbs above the desired limit. The third instance represents a more significant error and also represents an inconsistency because the region where its measurement vector is classified is associated with a significantly different weight. Further analysis could not verify the accuracy of the reported gross weight for that particular flight resulting in the flight being labeled as unreliable.

In order to obtain a quantifiable measure of inventive sensor accuracy the root mean square RMS error is calculated. This value indicates the most likely error expected for any given reading of the inventive adaptive sensor. After removing the flight labeled as unreliable from the validation dataset the RMS was calculated to be 260 lbs for the validation set and 236 lbs for the cumulative of all three sets. This same calculation is also performed on a per flight basis in order to determine the expected error for individual flights. This is of particular importance because gross weight is utilized for various analyses after flight completion. At that time it is the average RMS error for the various instances in the flight that affects those calculations. The results showed the maximum and mean RMS errors for a given flight to be 382 lbs and 199 lbs respectively when considering all available flights. These constitute excellent results for this application of the present invention s adaptive sensor methodology.

The value of the inventive methodology was evident in the activity found in the regions resulting from inventive adaptation. These regions account for 68 of all instances identified implying that without the contribution from inventive adaptation more than half of the information would have been discarded. The accuracy of the inventive sensor was demonstrated by achieving an RMS error of 260 lbs for the validation set and 236 lbs for all flights. This is a significant achievement for an aircraft whose operational gross weight ranges between 16 000 and 22 000 lbs. Of particular importance with the exception of two instances amounting to 1.5 of the validation data set all of the inventive adaptive sensor readings remained within the design error values of 500 lbs.

Furthermore when these readings are utilized for non real time studies they can be averaged within a flight and realize further gains in accuracy resulting in a mean error value of 199 lbs for any given flight. A single inconsistency found during validation illustrated the ability of the inventive algorithm to identify problems with the data. In this example the inventive adaptive sensor consistently returned a gross weight value higher than the reported value in regions of high confidence for the flight where the inconsistency was found indicating that the reported gross weight is very likely to contain errors.

As discussed hereinabove the present invention s robust strategy for continuous learning outside a controlled environment has been successfully integrated with sensors from an aircraft monitoring system to produce an adaptive sensor in accordance with the present invention. The present invention s novel smart sensor has the ability to improve its capabilities over time and is attributed with a natural resiliency against assimilating incorrect information. The inventive adaptive sensor maintains a virtual tree structure that it uses to recognize incoming measurements and identify inconsistencies in the data stream which it sets apart for further analysis. In this way the present invention s adaptive sensor can in effect perform its own quality control. In view of the demonstrated benefits afforded by the present invention s aircraft gross weight adaptive sensor embodiment it is expected that inventive adaptive sensors will play an important role in future aircraft health and usage monitoring systems.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

