---

title: Method, device, and program product to monitor the social health of a persistent virtual environment
abstract: Device, method, and computer program product for monitoring the social health of a persistent virtual environment. The disclosed technology monitors social interactions between subscribers of on-line entities who have interactions related to the persistent virtual environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07720777&OS=07720777&RS=07720777
owner: Palo Alto Research Center Incorporated
number: 07720777
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060411
---
The following United States patent applications have been filed herewith U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 402 399 having the same inventors entitled METHOD DEVICE AND PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR A SOCIAL DASHBOARD ASSOCIATED WITH A PERSISTENT VIRTUAL ENVIRONMENT.

The disclosed technology relates to the fields of monitoring persistent virtual environments and Social Network Analysis of on line entities within the persistent virtual environment.

Massively Multiplayer Online Games MMOGs are becoming increasingly popular with subscribers in the millions. The MMOG providers sell a product the software executed on a player s computer and a service by making a persistent virtual environment available to the account holder for a periodic subscription fee. Thus account holder retention is financially important to the MMOG provider because the longer the player associated with the account holder remains involved with the MMOG the longer the MMOG provider receives subscription income. Hence the MMOG providers are motivated to create and sustain healthy long lived online player communities.

Maintaining and increasing subscriber motivation to continue the subscription is a major business focus of the game industry. However no diagnostic tools are available to timely measure the social aspects of player interactions in the persistent virtual environment or to measure or monitor the health of the online player community in a persistent virtual environment. While the MMOG provider can gather massive amounts of information about the persistent virtual environment this information must be analyzed at high cost with for example Microsoft Excel or SPSS . Thus it is difficult expensive and time consuming for the MMOG provider to monitor the social health of the persistent virtual environment and the analysis results only reflect the state of the persistent virtual environment at the time the data was collected. Thus the analysis is not timely has no capability to forecast problems and only operates from single source of information.

Microsoft Excel are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. SPSS is a registered trademark of SPSS Inc. of Chicago Ill.

Marc Smith et al. in Proceedings of CHI 2001 Seattle Wash. April 1998 ACM Press pages 136 143 teaches analyzing and presenting a snapshot visualization of interpersonal connections extracted from newsgroup communications.

Warren Sack in Journal of Management Information Systems Winter 2000 Vol. 17 No. 3 pages 73 92 taught a series of visualization panels to analyze social interactions in newsgroup to help readers navigate the newsgroup s information space.

Nicolas Ducheneaut in Computer Supported Cooperative Work 14 4 pages 323 368 taught techniques for visualizing interactions between people and interactions between people and things for example software code over time. Ducheneaut teaches accessing a variety of information sources but is narrowly focused to Open Source Software development projects.

It would be advantageous to provide a way to timely monitor persistent virtual environments and to measure monitor and treat the health of online player communities within persistent virtual environments.

Aspects of the disclosed technology include methods devices and program products that acquire social interaction information between on line entities that participate in a persistent virtual environment. The social interaction information is analyzed to create a metric that represents a social aspect of the persistent virtual environment. A visualization responsive to the metric is presented.

One aspect of the persistent virtual environment can be a client data harvester and or a provider data harvester . These data harvesters repeatedly gather social interaction information to determine an on line entity s social ties in the persistent virtual environment . Additional information can be harvested from the persistent virtual environment such as the on line entity s possessions location profession skills experience player association membership etc. The provider data harvester generally can access more private account holder information than can the client data harvester because the virtual world provider imposes more access restrictions on client computers such as the client data harvester .

The term social interaction information includes the time the information was acquired as well an any type of on line entity data acquired by a data harvester or that can be associated with on line entity data acquired by a data harvester. Examples of social interaction information include without limitation time information on line entity identification information communication content information communication type information communication source information and audience identification information.

The client data harvester interfaces to the virtual world server s through one or more application programming interfaces API generally provided or authorized by the virtual world provider for example as a programming interface to a specific computer programming language or as macros provided to automate player actions . However the client data harvester will generally be limited in the number and or type of interactions it can make to the virtual world server s . This can limit the amount of social interaction information that can be captured by the client data harvester and or can extend the time required to capture the social interaction information. In addition the client data harvester generally does not have access to any social interaction information other than that which would be available to a player through his her on line entity for example the client data harvester generally does not have access to another account holder s account information . The provider data harvester however does not have the performance restrictions of the client data harvester nor need it be restricted from access to account information.

A player in a persistent virtual environment may have multiple personas in that environment. Each persona is a separate on line entity within the persistent virtual environment. Unless the player discloses player specific information to other players or the MMOG provider provides facilities to do so the actions communications and characteristics of the player s on line entity is the only source of information available to other on line entities. Thus a player refers to an actual person or computerized robot that controls the on line entity such as an avatar in the persistent virtual environment. The account holder is the real world entity who has subscribed to the persistent virtual environment who may also be a player the on line entity is the avatar in the persistent virtual environment that is controlled by the player. On line entities can establish player associations such as guilds cities clans etc. The industry term player association is generally an association of on line entities and not generally of players as these terms are used herein. Player association as used herein includes a goal directed temporary association a party such as a hunting party created by associating multiple players who agree to cooperate for a period of time or to achieve a goal.

The player can become virtually present within the persistent virtual environment by using a virtual world client to login to the persistent virtual environment . In this way the player controls an on line entity in the persistent virtual environment . The virtual world client communicates over the network to the virtual world server s and presents to information about the persistent virtual environment to the player such as by presenting textual visual audio or other information to the player s senses . The player causes the player s on line entity to interact with other players on line entities with non player entities or with virtual objects in the persistent virtual environment .

The persistent virtual environment can provide access to newsgroups and other communication forums not shown that are commonly accessible through the network . Generally each of the virtual world server s has its own separate persistent virtual environment. Some MMOG providers may provide persistent virtual environments that integrate across the servers.

The data acquisition process monitors one of the virtual world server s to acquire social interaction information from communications and acts between players of on line entities in the persistent virtual environment. The social interaction information includes communications made by the players across channels for example those communications made via in game group chat private messaging public talk persistent virtual environment mail messages and economic transactions . Additional communications can also be obtained from sources outside the persistent virtual environment such as message postings on forums related to the persistent virtual environment etc. The data acquisition process stores the social interaction information which includes information identifying the on line entities involved in the communication or act when the social interaction information occurred and what the social interaction information was related to.

The data acquisition process can be performed by the client data harvester and or the provider data harvester and serves to acquire social interaction information from the players through conversations and acts of their on line entities as well as from the players through off line communications. The social interaction information can be stored in memory or in other accessible storage such as the data storage .

The analysis process can use the stored social interaction information as input to various analysis procedures. Each analysis procedure can generate a metric that represents a social aspect of the persistent virtual environment. Some embodiments provide a number of different metrics that represent different social aspects of the persistent virtual environment. These metrics include those that have been identified as representing the health of the persistent virtual environment.

The visualization process presents a visualization responsive to the metric to provide information about the persistent virtual environment. In one embodiment the presented visualization is graphically represented by one or more visualization panels for example a panel to display prestigious and central on line entities a panel to display hot topics that identifies most active topics of conversation between the players etc. Examples of visualization panels are provided by through with their accompanying text.

In some embodiments the data acquisition process and or the analysis process are ongoing processes for example threads tasks etc. that continually or periodically execute. Other conceived of embodiments use event driven invocation of the processes.

In some embodiments the social interaction information can include a presence state value such as whether the on line entity is virtually present when the presence history is gathered . In the case of player associations for example the presence state value can include a participation level such as a number or percentage of the player association that are virtually present at the time of acquisition. Furthermore the presence state value can have a positive or negative value with respect to a threshold.

The social interaction information dispatch process can be invoked as a result of a boot of the client data harvester or the provider data harvester by an operator or batch command or in any other way known to one skilled in the art. One skilled in the art will understand that the functionality of the social interaction information dispatch process can be tightly incorporated into the virtual world server s itself and need not be performed on a separate processor or as a separate process.

One embodiment provides a pool of identical threads each of which can parse the social interaction information. In this embodiment each thread determines the type of the social interaction information when it is received and parses the social interaction information accordingly. Other embodiments maintain a pools of threads where the threads in each pool are used to parse a particular type of the social interaction information. In these embodiments the dispatch social interaction information to parser thread procedure determines the social interaction information type and dispatches the social interaction information for parsing.

A separate process not shown can be used to gather social interaction information from sources that are not directly accessible from the persistent virtual environment such as a newsgroup or forum related to the persistent virtual environment . One skilled in the art after reading the teachings within will understand how to access and analyze information from such a source.

The social interaction information is generally text but can for example be text generated from a speech recognition component between an on line entity and an audience as well as descriptive text resulting from an emote and or action command. This synchronous information can include for example but without limitation identification of the involved on line entities when the communication was passed how long the communication lasted the communication mode such as instant message gesture emote communication channel such as a guild communication channel . The social interaction information can also be an asynchronous communication between players either within or external to the persistent virtual environment such as e mail newsgroup or forum postings as well as user ratings notes reviews group affiliations rankings and the like. In addition the social interaction information can include demographic information related to account holders. The social interaction information can also include features extracted from an audio or video stream such as duration number of phrases intensity of emotion etc.

Social interaction information can also be inferred from other indicators that do not require direct communication between the parties. For example but without limitation behavioral information such as that information relating to the player participating in joint activities can be inferred from a grouped marker indicating that two or more players have formed a party and from co location in the game world such as if two players tend to visit the same location in the persistent virtual environment such as the same tavern in a city and optionally overlapping in time . Social interaction information can also be inferred from a player s friend list a list of past in game contacts . Social interaction information can also be inferred from indirect interactions such as when players exchange goods through the mediation of an auction house or any other in game marketplace.

The determine communication source procedure determines the communication source for example by determining where the information was acquired such as from a chat channel within the persistent virtual environment or from an external forum or newsgroup . Often this information will be provided within the provided social interaction information. Sometimes this information will be deduced by identifying the source of the information.

Some embodiments include the capability for example by using natural language processing to determine whether the communication is between the players themselves or between the on line entities controlled by the players non role playing communication vs. role playing communication .

The determine audience procedure determines the audience for example by tracking which on line entities are in sufficiently close proximity to a public communication initiated by an on line entity using a particular command mode for example via a whisper command a yell command or a default communication command .

The interaction data can also be stored for example as a series of affiliation matrices where the value at each coordinate x y indicates the amount of a given interaction over a given period of time between players X and Y. This value can be linked to the social interaction information used to produce the affiliation matrix for subsequent in depth analysis. One skilled in the art will understand that information can also be stored using database techniques.

The analysis process computes metrics that represent the health of the persistent virtual environment. While the following discussion is directed to examples where the persistent virtual environment is a MMOG one skilled in the art will understand that the analysis techniques disclosed herein apply to any persistent virtual environment that enables social interaction between the players participating in the persistent virtual environment as on line entities.

A metric can be classified as a status metric or a predictive metric. A status metric characterizes behavioral information of a set of on line entities where the behavioral information is related to at least one activity of the on line entities within the persistent virtual environment. Example status metrics include without limitation a prominence metric a centrality degree metric a cohesive subgroup metric a group level equivalence metric a leadership metric a strength of ties metric an interactivity metric a topic of interaction metric a role metric a social accounting metric a game play metric a modeling metric and an interaction topic metric as well as other metrics. These metrics are subsequently briefly described.

The predictive metric can for example evaluate the change in a status metric over time. Example predictive metrics include without limitation a churn metric a compatibility metric a scheduling metric a content consumption metric an environmental balance metric a survival metric and an economic metric. Churn metrics predict the probability of a player leaving the persistent virtual environment based on the player s past interaction patterns. Compatibility metrics indicate whether or not a player s playstyle will match a proposed player association or whether the player s playstyle matches that of the player association to which he she is a member. Scheduling metrics predict the probability of a player being available for a future joint activity so that such activities can be planned in advance. Content consumption metrics predict when players will have exhausted the persistent virtual environment s resources in order to plan timely expansions to the persistent virtual environment. Environmental balance metrics predict the effects of a design change on the persistent virtual environment such as removing a given profession or certain items from the persistent virtual environment. Economic metrics predict inflation trade volume and other variables in order to maintain the balance of trade in the persistent virtual environment. The survival metric indicates the health of a player association.

The predictive metrics can include those that develop a time series of single or combinations of status metrics weighted or un weighted that represent trends metrics that represent heuristically determined conditions relevant to the predicted health of the persistent virtual environment metrics based on a vector of attributes representing characteristics of the on line entity such that the vectors can be used to classify on line entities and to determine the characteristics of successful on line entities and to determine whether on line entities have characteristics that are progressing toward or away from the characteristics of successful on line entities.

The classification of the on line entities can utilize a Bayesian network spectral analysis nearest neighbor techniques or any other classification mechanism.

The predictive metrics can timely measure the social aspects of player interactions in the persistent virtual environment and measure and or monitor the health of the online player community in a persistent virtual environment. By using the predictive metrics the MMOG provider can alter the persistent virtual environment to encourage desired social interactions and to discourage less desired social interactions.

One skilled in the art of Social Network Analysis will understand that the metrics can be these used in the Social Network Analysis art. One example of what is known in the art of Social Network Analysis is provided by by Wasserman 2. Frost K. 1994 Cambridge University Press. Some of these metrics are briefly described below. These metrics allow the MMOG providers to understand the role played by each player in the persistent virtual environment. Valuable roles e.g. leaders holding groups of players together thereby increasing the quality of their social experience in the persistent virtual environment can be encouraged with incentives and problematic roles for example players disrupting a group s cohesion can be eliminated. The following metrics can all assist in detecting these roles.

A prominence metric represents the ties to the on line entity that make the on line entity particularly visible to other on line entities in the persistent virtual environment. The prominence metric is computed by evaluating direct and adjacent ties and also indirect paths involving intermediaries.

A centrality degree metric indicates the amount the other on line entities recognize that a specific on line entity is well socially well connected and serves as a major information channel.

A cohesive subgroup metric indicates subsets of on line entities among whom there are relatively strong direct intense frequent or positive ties for example mutuality of ties frequency of ties frequency of ties among on line entities within the subgroup as compared to on line entities who are not within the subgroup . In this context a tie is a way of representing a social relationship between two entities where the relationship is based on some type of information transfer symmetric or asymmetric between the entities.

A leadership metric can be computed from standard social network metrics such as prestige and centrality.

A strength of ties metric represents the density of connections within clusters of on line entities the size of these clusters and the overall social network structure.

An interactivity metric represents the average number of utterances average size of utterance average length of interactions number of unique versus repeated utterances and interactions etc. This metric can be determined relevant to a specific one of or subset of on line entities. It can also be determined relevant to a specific location in the persistent virtual environment.

A social accounting metric indicates an on line entity s social importance as determined for example from network centrality rate of advancement items they own or other heuristically determined characteristic .

A topics of interaction metric can be obtained from text mining of the on line entity s utterances. their bios or from the forums etc. The topics can be determined by using natural language processing. For example one can perform topic extraction from the corpus of text messages typed by the players based on a thesaurus. One can also build a semantic network by extracting words that frequently co occur thereby identifying associations between concepts as expressed by the players for example if the words paladin a character class and unbalanced frequently co occur this might be an indication of a design flaw in the persistent virtual environment .

A role metric can be developed from combinations of the above metrics. For example an on line entity can serve one or more roles. These roles can include helper expert philosopher comic griefer facilitator socializer etc.

A gameplay metric indicates the number of on line entities within a given character class having a given level within a persistent virtual environment geographical zone those owing particular articles etc.

The metrics allow time series analysis of aspects of the persistent virtual environment based on where and when on line entities are virtually present and so enables the MMOG provider to recommend and or encourage formation of optimal groupings of on line entities for example by encouraging development of a player association or to optimize load across servers based on activities of on line entities .

The metrics also allow the MMOG provider to model the impact of modifications to the persistent virtual environment by predicting consequences of the modification. In addition the social accounting metric can be used to 1 prioritize the work of customer service representatives the people who handle complaints important players get VIP treatment 2 target key players for retention if they show any sign of leaving persistent virtual environment.

The metrics also allow the MMOG provider to detect and remove griefers or other players who exhibit fraudulent and or deviant behavior.

Once all the data update events have been posted to the static metric analysis threads a wait for static metric analysis threads procedure waits for the static metric analysis threads to complete incorporating the new social interaction information into the metrics computed by the static metric analysis modules implemented by the static metric analysis threads. Once all the static metric analysis threads complete processing the analysis process continues to an iterate over predictive metric analysis modules procedure . The iterate over predictive metric analysis modules procedure iterates each predictive metric analysis thread. A post data update to predictive metric analysis thread procedure posts a data update event to the iterated thread so that the corresponding predictive metric analysis module can process the new social interaction information in light of changes in the static metric analysis metrics and or in light of the new interaction data . The analysis process then continues to a wait for predictive metric analysis threads procedure to wait for the predictive metric analysis threads to complete. Once they complete the analysis process loops back to the find new interaction data procedure .

The find new interaction data procedure can include a delay to limit the computational burden of the analysis process .

The instrument selection presented within the dashboard can be specified by a preference user command or other techniques known in the art. For example illustrates an instrument selection process that can be used to change the presented instruments. The instrument selection process can be invoked by a user prior to or subsequent to invoking the visualization background process . The instrument selection process initiates at a start terminal receives the user s instrument selection at a receive user instrument selection procedure and modifies the instrument preferences specification if needed by a modify instrument selection procedure . If the dashboard has been invoked by the invoke dashboard procedure an affect instrument change procedure posts the required events to the dashboard to effect the user s change of the instrument. The instrument selection process completes through an end terminal .

Storing a time stamped static metric as a snapshot enables subsequent analysis on the metric at a particular time by aggregating several snapshots and performing statistical analysis of the metric or by determining a predictive metric based on how a static metric changes over time.

One skilled in the art will understand that the wait for data update event procedure and the wait for data update event procedure may include dependency on other events clocks or intervals to limit the computational burden used to generate the static metric or predictive metric.

One skilled in the art will understand that the post instrument update event procedure and the post instrument update event procedure can also provide information used by the wait for static metric analysis threads procedure and the wait for predictive metric analysis threads procedure respectively to indicate completion of the thread to the analysis process .

The update time series with prior analysis procedure and the update time series with prior analysis procedure can for many static metrics and predictive metrics can incrementally update the metrics with the new interaction data without needing to reprocess a large portion of the of the historical interaction data. However for some of the metrics the historical interaction data and the new interaction data are concatenated and the corresponding metrics computed from the complete or some portion of the interaction data.

The stored time stamped metrics provide snapshots of the metric at a particular time and snapshots taken at different times can be compared. These snapshots also can be correlated to a time series to monitor how the metrics change over time and or to provide predictions based on their trends. Furthermore the metrics can be aggregated to provide statistically significant data that indicates key relationships between the metrics a compound metric . An example of a compound metric is a survival metric that can be computed by using regression techniques on weighted factors that contribute to a player association s survival. The survival metric can be determined from the player association size density and the number of isolated subgraphs in a social network the isolated subgraphs in the social network represent independent subgroups in a social unit .

The default panes can be deleted reconfigured repositioned resized etc. as needed to accommodate the selected instruments.

One skilled in the art will understand that the instrument process can be terminated responsive to a termination event. Such a one will also understand that there are many ways to present the dashboard that include for example displaying the dashboard and instruments on a monitor on a tangible media such as paper as a video to a tangible storage media etc. In addition the instrument process can also post an alert indication such as by posting an event to an appropriate process by altering the visual indicator to show the alert indication by invoking an audible alert indication presenting reports displays etc.

One aspect of the technology provides diagnostic tools to the MMOG provider that diagnose and alter the persistent virtual environment to maintain and or increase the subscriber motivation. By recognizing influential players or other on line entities and by being able to predict problems in the persistent virtual environment the MMOG provider can take proactive actions to improve the health of the persistent virtual environment. Some of the diagnostic tools present instrument readings based on one or more of the previously described metrics.

These diagnostic tools allow the MMOG provider to explore the relationships between on line entities for example using network graphs such as shown in through . The MMOG provider can also choose which interactions to observe at some level of granularity and for what period of time. The diagnostic tools provide the capability of identifying socially influential players and of recommending how the MMOG provider can encourage the identified players to actions that will improve the health of the persistent virtual environment. The tools allow the MMOG provider to investigate the rational and data that supports the tool s recommendation. Other diagnostic tools predict the health of the persistent virtual environment if the recommendations is or is not followed.

Some of the diagnostic tools are instruments that provide a high level reading of the health of the persistent virtual environment or of the player associations within the persistent virtual environment. An example of such an instrument is one that displays the overall interactivity level of the on line entities within the persistent virtual environment. Another example presents an overview of the more important metrics for the persistent virtual environment. One such metric could be those that are relevant to player associations for persistent virtual environments where the aggregate health of the player associations correlate with subscriber retention .

The diagnostic tools can also provide warnings and alerts if there are significant changes in the social environment in the persistent virtual environment for example if the number of on line entities classified as leaders suddenly drops .

Other diagnostic tools can detect problematic trends. One example would be that of detecting the deteriorating health of a player association or of providing a list of player associations that are in jeopardy of disappearing. Other diagnostic tools can be used to determine the cause of a player association being in jeopardy and can recommend remedial action for the MMOG provider to improve the situation. Yet other diagnostic tools can monitor and predict subscriber churn and retention rates. Other tools allow MMOG provider to detect and police undesirable social behavior of a player in the persistent Virtual environment.

The instrumented dashboard also includes a command bar that contains one or more controls such as a user activated control that can be activated by a user to send a selection command to present drill down information about an aspect of one if the presented instruments. One skilled in the art will understand that there are many ways to select which instrument to provide drill down information about. These include selecting the instrument and invoking the selection command on the selected instrument as well as activating a control that invokes the selection command specific to an instrument such as the user activated control that specifically drills down into the guild size instrument . The instrument image itself can also serve as the user activated control .

The Critical Danger and Normal zones on instruments can represent computed thresholds. We perform a regression of several factors over a target variable one embodiment performs a regression of the player association size metric the player association density metric and the number of isolated subgraphs in the player association over a survival variable to measure the influence of each listed metric over the survival of a player association . Using the equation resulting from the regression the value of each factor at which the target variable changes is computed. These values are used as thresholds for the instrument for example in on persistent virtual environment when the player association size metric is more than 10 all other metric being equal player associations will survive when the player association size metric less than 5 player associations will die . These values and metric can be used to prioritize and route customer support requests to the appropriate entity at the MMOG provider who are appropriately empowered to handle the request. The support entities can also use technology described herein to understand the importance to the persistent virtual environment of the player who has made the support request and thus to respond accordingly. Furthermore leading indicators responsive to enhancements or changes are made to the persistent virtual environment can be monitored to allow timely remove or fix to the enhancement if there are unexpected results.

Once a player association is identified as needing attention the persistent virtual environment provider can examine the history of the associated predictive metrics and static metrics to determine how best to correct the problem. For example when the problem is with a player association the persistent virtual environment provider can investigate the connectivity metrics associated with the player association.

Comparing the connectivity network of with that of the virtual world provider can determine that a once healthy player association is starting to fragment. Thus the virtual world provider has now identified the pivotal player or players that can be influenced to help the player association recover. This identification can be through the use of the member selection control . On selection of the more connected member in the member selection control the system will provide a recommendation to the virtual world provider on how to influence or pressure the more connected member to continue in the player association.

The marketing department of a MMOG provider initially provides recommended actions Possible recommendation actions would initially be provided using heuristics. For example the initial recommendation actions for increasing player retention could include offering the subscriber free subscription periods free items both in the persistent virtual environment and or in the real world an invitation to a special event or any other retention incentive . The persistent virtual environment then tracks the trajectory of each player after receipt of the retention incentive and measures the effectiveness of each retention incentive and adjusts its recommendations accordingly individually to the tracked player and or to classes of players .

As used herein a procedure is a self consistent sequence of steps that can be performed by logic implemented by a programmed computer specialized electronics or other circuitry or a combination thereof that lead to a desired result. These steps can be defined by one or more computer instructions. These steps can be performed by a computer executing the instructions that define the steps. Further these steps can be performed by circuitry designed to perform the steps. Thus the term procedure can refer for example but without limitation to a sequence of instructions a sequence of instructions organized within a programmed procedure or programmed function a sequence of instructions organized within programmed processes executing in one or more computers or a sequence of steps performed by electronic or other circuitry or any logic. Thus for example a data acquisition logic can include custom electronics a processor unit executing stored instructions or any combination thereof.

One skilled in the art will understand that the network transmits information such as informational data as well as data that defines a computer program . The information can also be embodied within a carrier wave. The term carrier wave includes electromagnetic signals visible or invisible light pulses signals on a data bus or signals transmitted over any wire wireless or optical fiber technology that allows information to be transmitted over a network. Programs and data are commonly read from both tangible physical media such as a compact floppy or magnetic disk and from a network. Thus the network like a tangible physical media or other article of manufacture can be considered a computer usable data carrier.

One skilled in the art will understand that the technology enables a MMOG provider to timely monitor persistent virtual environments and to measure and or monitor the health of the online player communities within the persistent virtual environments.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that the technology enables a MMOG provider to without limitation 

The claims as originally presented and as they may be amended encompass variations alternatives modifications improvements equivalents and substantial equivalents of the embodiments and teachings disclosed herein including those that are presently unforeseen or unappreciated and that for example may arise from applicants patentees and others.

