---

title: Ubiquitin E3 ligase
abstract: The present invention provides a native or reconstituted complex comprising Bmi1 and/or Ring1 and/or Ring2, wherein the complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. Optionally, the complex further comprises HPH2 and/or HPC3. Also disclosed are methods of producing the reconstituted complex, methods of identifying compounds that modulate the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex, and methods of identifying candidate compounds for treating cancer. Kits for determining modulation of protein ubiquitination and/or for ubiquitinating a target substrate are further provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07923219&OS=07923219&RS=07923219
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 07923219
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060601
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national phase application of PCT International Application No. PCT US2006 021159 having an international filing date of Jun. 1 2006 and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 686 769 filed Jun 2 2005 and U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 750 564 filed Dec. 15 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made in part with government support under grant number GM68804 from the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

Covalent modification of histones play important roles in regulating chromatin dynamics and transcription Jenuwein et al. 2001 293 1074 80 Zhang et al. 2001 15 2343 60 . One example of histone modification is ubiquitination which mainly occurs on histones H2A and H2B Zhang 2003 17 2733 40 . Although recent studies have uncovered the enzymes involved in histone H2B ubiquitination Robzyk et al. 2000 287 501 4 Hwang et al. 2003 11 261 6 Wood et al. 2003 11 267 74 and a cross talk between H2B ubiquitination and histone methylation Sun et al. 2002 418 104 8 Dover et al. 2002 277 28368 71 the responsible enzymes and the functions of H2A ubiquitination are unknown.

Ligation of ubiquitin involves a series of enzymatic reactions. First ubiquitin itself is activated with ATP by the ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 then transferred to a ubiquitin carrier protein E2 and finally it is transferred to ubiquitin ligase E3 . E3 enzyme catalyzes the covalent modification of lysine residues of the target protein with activated ubiquitin Chau et al. 1989 Science 243 1576 1583 . Recently an additional conjugation factor named E4 has been shown to be important in the ubiquitination process in conjunction with E1 E2 and E3 Koegl et al. 1999 Cell 96 5 635 44 .

The E1 and E2 ubiquitin ligases are structurally related and well characterized enzymes. There are several species of E2 some of which act in preferred pairs with specific E3 enzymes. E3 enzymes contain two separate activities a ubiquitin ligase activity to conjugate ubiquitin to substrates and a targeting activity to physically bring the ligase and substrate together. Substrate specificity of different E3 enzymes is the major determinant that confers specificity for different target proteins.

The inventors now report the purification and functional characterization of a ubiquitin E3 ligase complex.

The present invention is based in part on the isolation and reconstitution of a complex that has histone H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase activity H2A E3 ligase activity . The inventors have demonstrated that histone H2A ubiquitination is involved in homeotic box i.e. Hox gene silencing and is implicated in chromatin changes that are linked to cancer X inactivation germline development and or stem cell pluripotency. Thus the invention also provides reagents and methods for identifying compounds for the modulation of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity Hox gene silencing X inactivation genomic imprinting stem cell pluripotency and or germline development and or for identifying compounds that are candidates for the treatment of cancer.

Thus as a first aspect the invention provides a method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of Bmi1 or Ring2 the method comprising 

detecting the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate under conditions sufficient to provide ubiquitination of the protein substrate wherein a change in ubiquitination of the protein substrate as compared with the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a modulator of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of Bmi1 or Ring2.

The invention also provides a method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of a complex comprising a Bmi1 and or b Ring2 the method comprising 

detecting the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate under conditions sufficient to provide ubiquitination of the protein substrate wherein a change in ubiquitination of the protein substrate as compared with the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a modulator of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the complex.

The invention further provides a method of identifying a candidate compound for treating cancer the method comprising 

detecting the level of ubiquitination of the histone H2A substrate under conditions sufficient to provide histone H2A ubiquitination wherein a reduction in histone H2A ubiquitination as compared with the level of histone H2A ubiquitination in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a candidate compound for the treatment of cancer.

Still further the invention provides a method of identifying a candidate compound for treating cancer the method comprising 

contacting a complex comprising a Ring2 and or b Bmi1 with a histone H2A substrate in the presence of a test compound and

detecting the level of histone H2A ubiquitination under conditions sufficient to provide histone H2A ubiquitination wherein a reduction in histone H2A ubiquitination as compared with the level of histone H2A ubiquitination in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a candidate compound for the treatment of cancer.

As another aspect the invention provides a reconstituted mammalian complex comprising Bmi1 and or Ring2 wherein the reconstituted complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

As yet another aspect the invention provides a reconstituted mammalian complex comprising a Bmi1 and Ring2 and or Ring1 or b Bmi1 and Ring1 wherein the reconstituted complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

As still another aspect the invention provides an isolated mammalian complex comprising Bmi1 and or Ring2 wherein the complex does not comprise HPH1 HPH3 or SCMH1 and further wherein the isolated complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

The invention further provides an isolated mammalian complex comprising a Bmi1 and Ring2 and or Ring1 or b Bmi1 and Ring1 wherein the complex does not comprise HPH1 HPH3 and or SCMH1 and further wherein the isolated complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

As a further aspect the invention provides a method of modulating protein ubiquitination of a protein substrate comprising contacting a cell with a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity identified according to the methods described herein.

As another aspect the invention provides a kit for determining modulation of protein ubiquitination the kit comprising 

 a Bmi1 Ring2 or a reconstituted complex of the invention or nucleic acid encoding any of the foregoing and

 b written instructions for methods for determining modulation of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity and optionally additional reagents or apparatus for carrying out methods for determining modulation of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

As still a further aspect the invention provides a kit for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate the kit comprising 

 a Bmi1 Ring2 or a reconstituted complex of the invention or nucleic acid encoding any of the foregoing and

 b written instructions for methods for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate and optionally additional reagents or apparatus for carrying out methods for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate.

As yet another aspect the invention provides a method of ubiquitinating a target protein substrate the method comprising contacting a protein substrate with Bmi1 or Ring2 or a complex comprising Bmi1 and or Ring2 under conditions that permit the ubiquitination of the protein substrate by the complex.

These and other aspects of the invention are set forth in more detail in the detailed description below.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As used in the description of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.

As used herein and or refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items as well as the lack of combinations when interpreted in the alternative or .

Except as otherwise indicated standard methods known to those skilled in the art may be used for cloning genes amplifying and detecting nucleic acids and the like. Such techniques are known to those skilled in the art. See e.g. Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Ed. Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 F. M. Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Green Publishing Associates Inc. and John Wiley Sons Inc. New York .

Chromatin structure plays a role in gene regulation and epigenetic inheritance. Post translational modifications of histones are involved in the establishment and maintenance of higher order chromatin structure. Further it has been reported that the tails of certain core histones can be modified by acetylation methylation phosphorylation ribosylation and ubiquitination. The present invention is based in part on the isolation and reconstitution of a protein complex that exhibits histone H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase H2A E3 ligase activity.

The inventors have isolated and reconstituted a complex having histone H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase hereinafter H2A E3 ligase activity that includes the Ring1 Ring2 and Bmi1 proteins. Ring2 and Bmi1 have both been demonstrated to possess catalytic activity as H2A E3 ligases.

Accordingly as one aspect the present invention provides an isolated native complex having ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A E3 ligase activity . Generally the complex comprises the catalytic subunit s Bmi1 and or Ring2. In particular embodiments the isolated native complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Ring1 Ring2 and Bmi1 and optionally HPH2 and or HPC3 wherein the isolated complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. In other embodiments the isolated native complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Ring1 Ring2 and optionally Bmi1 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. In other embodiments the isolated native complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Bmi1 and Ring2 and optionally Ring1 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. In still further embodiments the isolated native complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Bmi1 and Ring1 and optionally Ring2 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. Alternatively the complex can comprise consist essentially of or consist of Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 and HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2.

By consisting essentially of it is meant that the complex does not include any other components that materially affect the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. the histone or histone H2A E3 ligase activity of the complex.

An isolated protein or complex as used herein means a protein complex that is separated or substantially free from at least some of the other components of the cell or organism for example the cellular structural components or other proteins or nucleic acids commonly found associated with the protein complex. In particular embodiments the isolated protein or complex is at least about 0.5 1 5 10 25 50 60 70 75 80 85 90 95 97 98 99 or more pure w w . In other embodiments an isolated protein or complex indicates that at least about a 5 fold 10 fold 25 fold 100 fold 1000 fold 10 000 fold 100 000 fold 1 000 000 fold or more enrichment of the protein complex w w is achieved as compared with the starting material.

The native complex can be isolated from any suitable source including cells tissue or whole organisms and the native or reconstituted complex is generally from Drosophila or a higher organism including fish e.g. zebrafish avians and mammals such as mice rats dogs cats goats sheep cattle horses pigs rabbits monkeys and other non human primates and humans.

According to other embodiments the present invention provides a reconstituted complex having ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. Generally the complex comprises the catalytic subunit s Bmi1 and or Ring2. In particular embodiments the reconstituted complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2 wherein the reconstituted complex has ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. In other embodiments the reconstituted complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Ring1 Ring2 and optionally Bmi1 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. In further embodiments the reconstituted complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Ring1 Ring2 and Bmi1 and optionally HPC3 and or HPH2. In other embodiments the reconstituted complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of Bmi1 and Ring2 and optionally Ring1 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. In still further embodiments the reconstituted complex can comprise consist essentially of or consist of Bmi1 and Ring1 and optionally Ring2 or HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2. Alternatively the complex can comprise consist essentially of or consist of Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 and HPC3. The complex can further optionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of HPH2.

As used herein reconstituted refers to a complex that is formulated from recombinant proteins. As used herein recombinant refers to a product formed using recombinant nucleic acid technology i.e. created utilizing genetic engineering techniques.

In embodiments of the invention the reconstituted complex of the present invention has enzyme activity comparable to the enzyme activity of a native complex e.g. at least about 70 80 90 95 or more of the activity of the native complex .

The function of ubiquitin E3 ligases are well known in the art. In particular embodiments the complex of the invention has histone ubiquitin E3 ligase activity optionally histone H2A E3 ligase activity. By H2A E3 ligase is meant an E3 ligase that transfers ubiquitin to H2A to produce a covalently modified ubiquitinated H2A . In representative embodiments the native or reconstituted H2A E3 ligase ubiquitinates H2A at lysine 119 H2A K119 . Optionally the native or reconstituted complex has histone ubiquitin E3 ligase activity that is substantially specific for H2A or H2A K119 meaning that substantially all of the observed histone ubiquitin E3 ligase activity is directed to H2A or H2A K119 respectively e.g. at least about 75 80 85 90 95 98 or more . In some embodiments of the invention there is no or essentially no detectable ubiquitination on histone substrates other than H2A or H2A K119. In still other embodiments insignificant levels of ubiquitination e.g. less than about 5 or 10 is detected at other histone sites e.g. histone H2B.

The native or reconstituted complexes of the invention are distinguishable from the complexes described by Levine et al. 2002 22 6070 6078 dPRC1 and hPRC H and Francis et al. 8 545 556 functional core of dPRC1 which complexes are specifically disclaimed herein. Thus the native or reconstituted complex is not a complex as described in these publications.

In some embodiments of the invention the native or reconstituted complex consists essentially of or consists of mammalian proteins optionally human proteins. In other embodiments the native or reconstituted complex consists essentially of or consists of insect proteins. In still other embodiments the native and or reconstituted complex does not comprise proteins.

In other embodiments the native or reconstituted complex does not comprise Pc HPH1 HPH3 HPC2 M33 SNF2H SCMH1 Scm Mel18 Mph 1 2 HSP70 an HSC protein e.g. HSC70 Zeste a TAF protein e.g. dTAFII YY1 and or tubulin or their homologs from other species. In representative embodiments the complex does not comprise HPH2 or homologs thereof from other species e.g. ph . In representative embodiments the complex does not comprise HPC3 or homologs thereof from other species e.g. Pc . In other representative embodiments the complex does not comprise HPH1 HPH3 and or SCMH1 or homologs thereof from other species.

As used herein the term homolog has its ordinary meaning in the art e.g. a gene or protein from another species that is similar in structure and evolutionary origin.

The terms Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPH2 and HPC3 as used herein encompass homologs from any organism and are not intended to be limited to human or mammalian proteins. In particular embodiments Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPC3 and or HPH2 can be mammalian e.g. human simian or other non human primate rat mouse feline canine bovine equine ovine caprine lagomorph etc. proteins avian proteins fish proteins e.g. zebrafish or proteins e.g. dRing1 is a homolog for mammalian Ring1 and Ring2 Psc is a homolog of Bmi1 ph is a homolog of HPH2 Pc is a homolog of HPC3 or any combination thereof. A combination thereof with respect to the proteins described above indicates that at least one protein can be derived from one organism and at least one protein can be derived from a different organism. For example Ring1 can be a mammalian protein and Bmi1 can be a protein i.e. Psc .

Thus in some aspects of the invention the native or reconstituted complex comprises dRing1 and or Psc. In particular embodiments the complex comprises consists essentially of or consists of dRing1 and Psc Pc and or ph. Alternatively the complex can comprise consist essentially of or consist of Psc and ph Psc and Pc or Psc ph and Pc.

In particular embodiments the Bmi1 protein is methylated at the amino acid residue s corresponding to K88 and or K92 of the mouse or human Bmi1 protein. Methylated protein can be made by any method known in the art for example by expression in insect e.g. Sf9 or mammalian cells.

Further as understood by those skilled in the art the terms Ring1 and Ring2 are used interchangeably herein with the terms Ring1A and Ring1B respectively.

It will further be understood by those of skill in the art that the terms Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPC3 and HPH2 including non mammalian homologs thereof can encompass a functional or biologically active variant isoform derivative fragment or the like as understood by those skilled in the art. As used herein variant refers to an amino acid sequence that is altered by one or more amino acids. The variant may have conservative changes wherein a substituted amino acid has similar structural or chemical properties. In particular such changes can be guided by known similarities between amino acids in physical features such as charge density hydrophobicity hydrophilicity size and configuration so that amino acids are substituted with other amino acids having essentially the same functional properties. For example Ala may be replaced with Val or Ser Val may be replaced with Ala Leu Met or Ile preferably Ala or Leu Leu may be replaced with Ala Val or Ile preferably Val or Ile Gly may be replaced with Pro or Cys preferably Pro Pro may be replaced with Gly Cys Ser or Met preferably Gly Cys or Ser Cys may be replaced with Gly Pro Ser or Met preferably Pro or Met Met may be replaced with Pro or Cys preferably Cys His may be replaced with Phe or Gln preferably Phe Phe may be replaced with His Tyr or Trp preferably His or Tyr Tyr may be replaced with His Phe or Trp preferably Phe or Trp Trp may be replaced with Phe or Tyr preferably Tyr Asn may be replaced with Gln or Ser preferably Gln Gln may be replaced with His Lys Glu Asn or Ser preferably Asn or Ser Ser may be replaced with Gln Thr Pro Cys or Ala Thr may be replaced with Gln or Ser preferably Ser Lys may be replaced with Gln or Arg Arg may be replaced with Lys Asp or Glu preferably Lys or Asp Asp may be replaced with Lys Arg or Glu preferably Arg or Glu and Glu may be replaced with Arg or Asp preferably Asp. Once made changes can be routinely screened to determine their effects on function.

Alternatively a variant may have nonconservative changes e.g. replacement of glycine with tryptophan . Analogous minor variations may also include amino acid deletions or insertions or both. Guidance in determining which amino acid residues may be substituted inserted or deleted without abolishing biological activity may be found using computer programs well known in the art for example LASERGENE software.

As used herein derivative refers a component that has been subjected to a chemical modification. Derivatization of a protein component can involve the replacement of a hydrogen by an acetyl acyl alkyl amino formyl or morpholino group. Derivative molecules can retain the biological activities of the naturally occurring molecules but can confer advantages such as longer lifespan or enhanced activity.

In particular embodiments a biologically active variant isoform or derivative of any of the protein components of the reconstituted complex has at least about 60 70 75 80 85 90 95 98 or more amino acid sequence similarity or identity with the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring protein.

Further in particular embodiments a functional variant isoform or derivative retains at least one biological activity normally associated with the component of interest e.g. H2A E3 ligase or more specifically H2A K119 E3 ligase activity . In particular embodiments the functional variant isoform or derivative retains at least about 40 50 60 75 85 90 95 or more biological activity normally associated with the naturally occurring component e.g. H2A E3 ligase or more specifically H2A K119 E3 ligase activity or can even have a greater level of biological activity.

As used herein the term fragment refers to a portion of the component that retains at least one biological activity normally associated with that component e.g. H2A E3 ligase or more specifically H2A K119 E3 ligase activity and can have at least about 50 70 80 90 or more of the biological activity as compared with the full length protein or even has a greater level of biological activity. For example in particular embodiments a fragment of Ring1 Ring2 or Bmi1 comprises the RING catalytic domain. In representative embodiments the fragment retains the ability to participate in complex formation. In other representative embodiments the fragment comprises at least about 50 100 150 200 250 or 500 consecutive amino acids of the full length protein.

In other embodiments a Bmi1 fragment or variant comprises the lysine residues corresponding to K88 and or K92 of the mouse or human protein.

Isoforms or variants of the components of the complex are known in the art see e.g. GenBank Accession Nos. NM198040 and NP932157 HPH2 human variant 1 GenBank Accession Nos. NM004427 and NP004418 HPH2 human variant 2 GenBank Accession Nos. NM080055 and NP524794 ph d distal and GenBank Accession Nos. NM057523 and NP476871 ph p proximal .

In some embodiments of the invention two or more components of the complex can be provided as fusion proteins comprising all or a functional portion of the two or more components for example a Ring1 Ring2 fusion a Ring2 Bmi1 fusion and the like.

The complexes of the invention can have ubiquitin E3 ligase activity toward any suitable protein substrate. In some embodiments of the invention the complex has histone ubiquitin E3 ligase optionally H2A E3 ligase activity e.g. H2A K119 E3 ligase activity and the substrate is a histone or histone H2A respectively.

In some embodiments the native or reconstituted complex has a substrate preference for histones e.g. H2A in nucleosome form as compared with free histone substrates. In some embodiments the complex has a preference for mononucleosome dinucleosome and or oligonucleosome substrates. Thus the histone substrate can be a core histone or histone complex i.e. free or essentially free of DNA such as a histone octamer and or a nucleosome substrate e.g. a mononucleosome a dinucleosome or an oligonucleosome .

The histone e.g. H2A substrate can be from any suitable source generally from yeast Drosophila or higher organisms including fish e.g. zebrafish avians and mammals such as mice rats dogs cats goats sheep cattle horses pigs rabbits monkeys and other non human primates and humans.

The present invention further provides methods of producing the inventive reconstituted complexes the methods comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of providing one or more host cells comprising heterologous nucleic acid sequences encoding the proteins of the reconstituted complex and culturing the host cell under conditions sufficient for expression of the proteins and production of the reconstituted complex.

 Consisting essentially of as used herein with respect to the methods of the invention indicates that the method includes no additional material steps beyond those specified.

In particular embodiments the method comprises consists essentially of or consists of providing one or more host cells comprising a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and or b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and culturing the one or more host cells under conditions sufficient for expression of the proteins and production of the reconstituted complex. In some embodiments the one or more host cells further comprise c a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or d a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or e a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

The method can comprise consist essentially of or consist of providing one or more host cells comprising a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and or c a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and culturing the one or more host cells under conditions sufficient for expression of the proteins and production of the reconstituted complex. In some embodiments the one or more host cells further comprise d a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or e a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

Alternatively the method can comprise consist essentially of or consist of providing one or more host cells comprising a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and a b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and c a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and culturing the one or more host cells under conditions sufficient for expression of the proteins and production of the reconstituted complex. In some embodiments the one or more host cells further comprise d a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or e a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

The different protein components of the complex can be expressed in one cell. Alternatively the components can be expressed in two or more cells e.g. each component expressed in a different cell .

As used herein nucleic acid encompasses both RNA and DNA including cDNA genomic DNA synthetic e.g. chemically synthesized DNA and chimeras of RNA and DNA. The nucleic acid may be double stranded or single stranded. The nucleic acid may be synthesized using oligonucleotide analogs or derivatives e.g. inosine or phosphorothioate nucleotides . Such oligonucleotides can be used for example to prepare nucleic acids that have altered base pairing abilities or increased resistance to nucleases.

The term heterologous nucleic acid is a well known term of art and would be readily understood by one of skill in the art to be a nucleic acid that is not normally present within the host cell into which it has been introduced and or is a nucleic acid that is expressed under the control of regulatory elements that are not normally present within the host cell. A heterologous nucleic acid of this invention can also be a nucleic acid that is present in an amount or expressed in an amount that is not normally the amount present in the cell into which the nucleic acid has been introduced. Additionally the heterologous nucleic acids encoding the components of the reconstituted complex can be associated with appropriate expression control sequences e.g. transcription translation control signals and polyadenylation signals.

It will be appreciated that a variety of promoter enhancer elements can be used depending on the level and tissue specific expression desired. The promoter can be constitutive or inducible e.g. the metallothionein promoter or a hormone inducible promoter depending on the pattern of expression desired. The promoter can be native or foreign and can be a natural or a synthetic sequence. By foreign it is intended that the promoter is not found in the wild type host into which the promoter is introduced. The promoter is chosen so that it will function in the target cell s of interest. Moreover specific initiation signals are generally provided for efficient translation of inserted protein coding sequences. These translational control sequences which can include the ATG initiation codon and adjacent sequences can be of a variety of origins both natural and synthetic. In embodiments of the invention wherein the heterologous nucleic acids encoding the components of the reconstituted complex comprise an additional sequence to be transcribed the transcriptional units can be operatively associated with separate promoters or with a single upstream promoter and one or more downstream internal ribosome entry site IRES sequences e.g. the picornavirus EMC IRES sequence .

Suitable host cells are well known in the art. See e.g. Goeddel Methods in Enzymology 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . For example the host cell can be a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. Further it is well known that proteins can be expressed in bacterial cells such as insect cells e.g. the baculovirus expression system yeast cells plant cells or mammalian cells e.g. human rat mouse bovine porcine ovine caprine equine feline canine lagomorph simian and the like . The host cell can be a cultured cell such as a cell of a primary or immortalized cell line. The host cell can be a cell in a microorganism animal or plant being used essentially as a bioreactor. In particular embodiments of the present invention the host cell is any insect cell that allows for replication of expression vectors. For example the host cell can be from such as the Sf9 or Sf21 cell lines drosophila cell lines or mosquito cell lines e.g. derived cell lines. Use of insect cells for expression of heterologous proteins is well documented as are methods of introducing nucleic acids such as vectors e.g. insect cell compatible vectors such as baculovirus vectors into such cells and methods of maintaining such cells in culture. See for example Methods in Molecular Biology ed. Richard Humana Press NJ 1995 O Reilly et al. Baculovirus Expression Vectors A Laboratory Manual Oxford Univ. Press 1994 Samulski et al. J. Vir. 63 3822 8 1989 Kajigaya et al. Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci. USA 88 4646 50 1991 Ruffing et al. J. Vir. 66 6922 30 1992 Kimbauer et al. Vir. 219 37 44 1996 Zhao et al. Vir. 272 382 93 2000 and Samulski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 204 059. In particular embodiments of the present invention the insect cell is an Sf9 cell.

In some embodiments the method of producing the reconstituted complex further comprises isolating the expressed reconstituted complex from the cultured host cell or a culture medium from the cultured host cell i.e. conditioned medium . As known in the art the reconstituted complex can be isolated according to well known protein isolation and purification techniques that can involve a combination of procedures and iterations of the same in an effort to obtain the desired amount of protein and level of purity.

Accordingly in some embodiments the method of producing the reconstituted complex comprises binding the expressed reconstituted complex to a solid support. The solid support can be an inorganic and or organic particulate support material comprising sand silicas silicates silica gel glass glass beads glass fibers alumina zirconia titania nickel and suitable polymer materials including but not limited to agarose polystyrene polyethylene polyethylene glycol polyethylene glycol grafted or covalently bonded to polystyrene also termed PEG polystyrene in any suitable form known to those of skill in the art such as a particle bead gel filter or plate. The solid support can comprise a moiety as known to those skilled in the art that can be used to bind to the expressed reconstituted complex e.g. nickel a peptide antigen avidin an antibody or an enzyme substrate e.g. glutathione directed to the expressed reconstituted complex. The moiety can recognize the enzyme complex itself or alternatively a purification tag associated with the complex. Detection can be facilitated by coupling or tagging i.e. physically linking the desired protein or antibody directed to the protein to an appropriate detectable substance including commercially available detectable substances. Examples of detectable substances include but are not limited to various antibodies enzymes peptide and or protein tags prosthetic groups fluorescent materials luminescent materials bioluminescent materials and radioactive materials. Antibodies directed against the components of the complex are known in the art e.g. antibodies directed against Ring1 Schoorlemmer et al. 1997 16 5930 5942 Bmi1 available from Upstate . Examples of suitable enzymes include but are not limited to glutathione S transferase GST horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase galactosidase or acetyl cholinesterase. Examples of peptide and or protein tags include but are not limited to a polyhistidine peptide tag the FLAG peptide tag maltose binding protein MBP thioredoxin Trx and calmodulin binding peptide. Examples of suitable prosthetic group complexes include but are not limited to streptavidin biotin and avidin biotin. Examples of suitable fluorescent materials include but are not limited to umbelliferone fluorescein fluorescein isothiocyanate rhodamine dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein dansyl chloride or phycoerythrin. An example of a luminescent material includes luminal. Examples of bioluminescent materials include but are not limited to luciferase luciferin and aequorin. Examples of suitable radioactive material include but are not limited to I I I and H. In particular embodiments the expressed reconstituted complex comprises a purification tag e.g. any one or more of the components can be tagged . In some embodiments the reconstituted complex produced by the methods of the invention has a purity level of at least about 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 97 98 99 or more w w .

In further embodiments of the present invention the one or more host cells can be stably transformed with the heterologous nucleic acid sequences encoding the proteins described above. Stable transformation as used herein generally refers to the integration of the heterologous nucleic acid sequences into the genome of the host cell in contrast to transient transformation wherein the heterologous nucleic acid sequences introduced into the host cell do not integrate into the genome of the host cell. The term stable transformant can further refer to stable expression of an episome e.g. Epstein Barr Virus EBV .

In particular embodiments the one or more host cells is stably transformed with a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding one or more of the components of the complex as described above .

In some embodiments the one or more host cells comprise one or more delivery vectors comprising the heterologous nucleic acid sequences encoding the proteins in the complex. As used herein delivery vector refers to a viral or non viral vector that comprises one or more heterologous nucleic acid sequences i.e. transgenes e.g. two three four five or more heterologous nucleic acid sequences. In particular embodiments the heterologous nucleic acids are delivered by separate vectors and the one or more vectors comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and or ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein. In particular embodiments the one or more host cells additionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of iii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or iv a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or v a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding an HPC3 protein.

The one or more vectors can comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and or iii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein. Alternatively the one or more vectors can comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or iii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein. In particular embodiments the one or more host cells additionally comprise consist essentially of or consist of a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding an HPC3 protein.

In representative embodiments methods of producing the reconstituted complex further comprise transforming the host cell with the one or more vectors. The components of the reconstituted complex can each be expressed from a separate vector. Alternatively a single vector can encode one or more of the components of the reconstituted complex.

Suitable vectors include virus vectors e.g. baculovirus retrovirus alphavirus vaccinia virus adenovirus adeno associated virus or herpes simplex virus lipid vectors poly lysine vectors synthetic polyamino polymer vectors that are used with nucleic acid molecules such as plasmids and the like. Delivery vectors are described in more detail in Section IV.

In further embodiments the present invention provides a host cell comprising heterologous nucleic acid sequences encoding one or more of the proteins of the reconstituted complex. In particular embodiments the heterologous nucleic acid sequences comprise consist essentially of or consist of a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and or b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and or c a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and optionally d a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or e a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

The heterologous nucleic acid sequences can comprise consist essentially of or consist of a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and or c a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein Alternatively the heterologous nucleic acid sequences can comprise consist essentially of or consist of a a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and b a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or d a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein. Optionally the host cell can further comprises consist essentially of or consist of a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

Suitable host cells are described above. In some embodiments the host cell is an insect cell or a mammalian cell. In particular embodiments the insect cell is an Sf9 cell.

Further the host cell can be stably transformed with the heterologous nucleic acid sequences encoding the proteins of the reconstituted complex. In some embodiments the host cell comprises one or more delivery vectors comprising the heterologous nucleic acid sequences as described above. In further embodiments the one or more vectors comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and optionally iii a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or iv a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or v a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

The one or more vectors can comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and or iii a further separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and optionally iv a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or v a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

Alternatively the one or more vectors can comprise consist essentially of or consist of i a vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Bmi1 protein and ii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring1 protein and or iii a separate vector comprising a heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a Ring2 protein and optionally iv a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPH2 protein and or v a further separate heterologous nucleic acid sequence encoding a HPC3 protein.

Suitable vectors are described herein. According to embodiments of the present invention the vector is a baculovirus vector.

Nucleic acid and amino acid sequences of Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPH2 and HPC3 are known in the art see e.g. GenBank Accession Nos. NM002931 and NP002922 Ring1 human GenBank Accession Nos. NM009066 and NP033092 Ring1A mouse GenBank Accession Nos. NM007212 and NP009143 Ring2 human GenBank Accession Nos. NM011277 and NP035407 Ring1B mouse GenBank Accession Nos. NM058161 and NP477509 dRing1 GenBank Accession Nos. NM005180 and NP005171 Bmi1 human GenBank Accession Nos. NM007552 and NP031578 Bmi1 mouse GenBank Accession Nos. NM079001 and NP523725 Psc GenBank Accession Nos. NM198040 and NP932157 HPH2 human variant 1 GenBank Accession Nos. NM004427 and NP004418 HPH2 human variant 2 GenBank Accession Nos. NM080055 and NP524794 ph d distal GenBank Accession Nos. NM057523 and NP476871 ph p proximal GenBank Accession Nos. AF174482 and AAG09180 HPC3 human GenBank Accession Nos. NM013926 and NP038954 polycomb protein Pc3 mouse GenBank Accession Nos. NM205616 and NP991179 chromobox homolog 8 cbx8 GenBank Accession Nos. XM582905 and XP582905 polycomb protein Pc3 GenBank Accession Nos. XM845656 and XP850749 polycomb protein Pc3 and GenBank Accession Nos. NM001034078 and NP001029250 chromobox homolog 8 cbx8 .

The present invention further provides methods of identifying compounds that modulate the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A E3 ligase activity of Bmi1 Ring2 or a native or reconstituted complex as described herein or modulate binding Bmi1 Ring2 or the native or reconstituted complex to a protein substrate such as a histone or H2A e.g. as free histone or in nucleosome form . As used herein modulate modulates or modulation refers to enhancement e.g. an increase or inhibition e.g. a reduction in the specified activity. The term enhancement enhance enhances or enhancing or grammatical variations thereof refers to an increase in the specified parameter e.g. at least about a 1.1 fold 1.25 fold 1.5 fold 2 fold 3 fold 4 fold 5 fold 6 fold 8 fold 10 fold twelve fold fold fifteen fold fifty fold one hundred fold or more increase . The term inhibit or reduce or grammatical variations thereof as used herein refers to a decrease or diminishment in the specified activity of at least about 10 25 35 40 50 60 75 80 90 95 or more. In particular embodiments the inhibition or reduction results in no or essentially no i.e. an insignificant amount e.g. less than about 10 or even 5 detectible activity.

In particular embodiments the invention is practiced to identify a compound that modulates the histone ubiquitin E3 ligase activity the H2A E3 ligase activity or more specifically the H2A K119 ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex described herein.

The complex can be a reconstituted or native complex as described herein with the exception that the native or reconstituted complex can also be a complex as described by Levine et al. 2002 22 6070 6078 dPRC1 and hPRC H and or Francis et al. 8 545 556 functional core of dPRC1 .

Any suitable assay for determining modulation of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity can be used to identify compounds that modulate the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A E3 ligase activity . In particular embodiments the invention provides a method of identifying a compound that modulates the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex the method comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of contacting the complex with a protein substrate e.g. a histone H2A substrate in the presence of a test compound and detecting the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate under conditions sufficient to provide ubiquitination of the protein substrate wherein a change in ubiquitination of the protein substrate as compared with the level of ubiquitination of the protein substrate in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a modulator of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the complex. In particular embodiments the method comprises identifying a compound that modules the histone or H2A e.g. H2A K119 ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the complex.

Any method of detecting modulation of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity can be used for example by contacting the complex with a test compound in the presence of a protein substrate e.g. a histone or H2A E1 E2 and a labeled ubiquitin e.g. FLAG ubiquitin or a radiolabeled ubiquitin . Protein ubiquitination can be detected by detecting the labeled ubiquitin bound to the protein substrate. Alternatively an antibody that is specific for the ubiquitinated protein can be used e.g. an antibody directed against H2A ubiquitinated at K119 . For example the well characterized monoclonal antibody E6C5 is specific for ubiquitinated H2A Vassilev et al. 1995 108 Pt 3 1205 15 . In one exemplary assay the protein substrate can be bound to a surface e.g. the bottom of a multi well plate a filter a matrix or a bead . The surface can be contacted with the reagents as described above. The association of the labeled ubiquitin with the bound protein substrate can be detected to determine the level of ubiquitination.

An ELISA assay utilizing an antibody that is specific for the ubiquitinated form of the protein substrate e.g. ubiquitinated H2A is particularly well suited for high though put screening protocols. A protein substrate can be bound to a multi well plate and ubiquitinated protein detected with an antibody that is specific for the ubiquitinated protein.

As used herein the term ubiquitin encompasses the naturally occurring 76 amino acid protein as well as variants and modified forms thereof as long as the variant or modified ubiquitin functions substantially similarly to ubiquitin and can be used to detect ubiquitination in a ubiquitin E3 ligase assay.

H2A E3 ligase activity can be assessed by detecting ubiquitination of H2A or an artificial or synthetic H2A substrate.

Any suitable end point for measuring ubiquitin E3 ligase activity can be used. For example the screening methods can be practiced using the native or reconstituted complexes as the E3 enzyme in the ubiquitin ligase assays described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 737 244 and 6 740 495 both to Issakani et al. and assigned to Rigel Pharmaceuticals .

To illustrate a method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase activity can comprise consist essentially of or consist of combining ubiquitin E1 E2 E3 and a candidate ubiquitin ligase modulator and measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3. This method does not require a specific target protein e.g. H2A to be ubiquitinated. In a representative embodiment a protein substrate e.g. H2A is specifically excluded from the assay mix.

In one embodiment of this assay ubiquitin is in the form of tag1 ubiquitin. In another embodiment E3 is in the form of tag2 E3. In these embodiments tag1 may be a label or a partner of a binding pair. In one embodiment tag1 is a fluorescent label in which case measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3 may be by measuring luminescence.

In another embodiment tag1 is a member of a binding pair chosen from the group antigen biotin and calmodulin binding protein. In this latter embodiment the partner of a binding pair may be labeled by indirect labeling which may be by a fluorescent label or a label enzyme. The label enzyme may be horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase or glucose oxidase. When the indirect labeling is by a fluorescent label measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3 may be by measuring luminescence. In the case that the indirect labeling is by a label enzyme said enzyme may be reacted with a substrate which produces a fluorescent product in which case measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3 may be by measuring luminescence. In one embodiment of the method above tag1 is a FLAG antigen. In this embodiment indirect labeling may be by an anti FLAG antibody.

In one aspect of the above method tag2 is a surface binding molecule which may be His tag. In this latter case the assaying may be performed in a multi well plate comprising a surface substrate comprising nickel.

In a different embodiment of this method when tag1 is a fluorescent label the combining step further includes combining tag3 ubiquitin. Tag3 may be the second member of a fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET pair with tag1 or it may be a quencher of tag1. In this embodiment measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3 may be by measuring fluorescent emission which may involve measuring the fluorescent emission spectrum. The method may further comprise comparing the measured fluorescent emission spectrum with the fluorescent emission spectrum of unbound tag1 and tag3 ubiquitin. When measuring the amount of ubiquitin bound to E3 is by measuring the fluorescent emission spectrum this measuring may be continuous or at specific time points following the original combining of materials.

As another alternative a method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity comprises consists essentially of or consists of combining tag1 ubiquitin a candidate modulator E1 E2 and tag2 E3 and measuring the amount of tag1 ubiquitin bound to tag2 E3. In another embodiment this method further comprises combining tag1 ubiquitin a candidate modulator E1 and tag2 E2 and measuring the amount of tag1 ubiquitin bound to the tag2 E2. In a representative embodiment a protein substrate e.g. H2A is specifically excluded from the method.

According to this method tag1 may be a label or a partner of a binding pair. If tag1 is a label it may be a fluorescent label in which case measuring the amount of bound tag1 ubiquitin may be by measuring luminescence. If tag1 is a partner of a binding pair the potential binding pair partners labeling options and subsequent measuring options are substantially as described for tag1 above.

In the above method tag2 and tag3 may be surface substrate binding molecules. Options for such molecules and conditions for performing the method are as described above.

As a further alternative a method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase activity comprises consists essentially of or consists of combining tag1 ubiquitin and tag2 ubiquitin a candidate modulator compound E1 E2 and E3 under conditions in which ubiquitination can take place and measuring the amount or rate of ubiquitination. In this embodiment tag1 and tag2 constitute a FRET pair or tag1 is a fluorescent label and tag2 is a quencher of tag1. In a representative embodiment of this method measuring is by measuring the fluorescent emission spectrum from the combination for example continuously or at specific time points following combining the components. These measurements may be compared to the fluorescent emission spectrum of unbound tag1 and tag2 ubiquitin.

As another possibility another assay method comprises consists essentially of or consists of combining a candidate ubiquitination modulator tag1 ubiquitin and tag2 ubiquitin E1 E2 and E3 under conditions in which ubiquitination can take place and measuring the amount or rate of ubiquitination. In this embodiment tag1 and tag2 constitute a FRET pair or tag1 is a fluorescent label and tag2 is a quencher of tag1. In a representative embodiment of this method measuring is by measuring the fluorescent emission spectrum from the combination for example continuously or at specific time points following combining the components. These measurements may be compared to the fluorescent emission spectrum of unbound tag1 and tag2 ubiquitin.

In the latter two assays described the ubiquitin may be in the form tag1 3 ubiquitin and tag2 3 ubiquitin wherein tag3 is a member of a binding pair for example FLAG. In another embodiment of these assays E3 may be in the form of tag4 E3 wherein tag4 is a surface substrate bonding molecule.

Thus in an exemplary embodiment the method of identifying a compound that modulates ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. histone or H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase activity comprises consists essentially of or consists of a combining i tag1 ubiquitin ii ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 iii ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 iv tag2 ubiquitin ligase E3 and a v test compound and b measuring the amount of the tag1 ubiquitin bound to the ubiquitin ligase E3 whereby the amount of the tag1 ubiquitin bound to the ubiquitin ligase E3 indicates the ubiquitin ligase activity.

As another illustration the assay comprises consists essentially of or consists of a combining under conditions that favor ubiquitination activity i tag1 ubiquitin ii a test compound iii ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 iv ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 and v tag2 ubiquitin ligase E3 b measuring the amount of tag1 ubiquitin bound to the tag2 ubiquitin ligase E3 whereby a difference in bound ubiquitin as compared with a reaction performed in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a ubiquitination modulator. In representative embodiments the assay further comprises c combining under conditions that favor ubiquitination activity i tag1 ubiquitin ii a test compound iii ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 and iv tag3 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 and d measuring the amount of tag1 ubiquitin bound to the tag3 ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 whereby a difference in bound ubiquitin as compared with a reaction performed in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a ubiquitination modulator.

Another possible assay comprises consists essentially of or consists of a combining under conditions that favor ubiquitination activity i tag1 ubiquitin and tag2 ubiquitin wherein tag1 and tag2 constitute a FRET pair or tag1 is a fluorescent label and tag2 is a quencher of tag1 ii ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 iii ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 iv ubiquitin ligase E3 and v a candidate ubiquitination modulator and b measuring the amount or rate of ubiquitination whereby a difference in the amount or rate of ubiquitination as compared with a reaction performed in the absence of the candidate modulator indicates that the candidate is a ubiquitination modulator. In representative assays the combining step of a further comprises combining vi a protein substrate e.g. a histone or H2A .

A native or reconstituted complex as described herein with respect to screening methods can be used as the E3 enzyme in the foregoing assays.

In particular embodiments of the inventive screening methods a reduction in ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. as determined by detecting ubiquitination of a protein substrate as compared with the level of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity detected in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is an inhibitor of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex. Inhibitor as used herein refers to the ability of the test compound to reduce the specified activity as compared to the level of activity in the absence of the test compound. In some embodiments the test compound decreases or diminishes ubiquitin E3 ligase activity by at least about 10 25 35 40 50 60 75 80 90 95 or more as compared to the level of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity in the absence of the test compound. In particular embodiments there is no or essentially no at most an insignificant amount e.g. less than about 10 or even 5 detectable activity.

In other embodiments an increase in ubiquitin E3 ligase activity compared with the level of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity detected in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is an activator of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex. Activator as used herein refers to the ability of the test compound to increase or prevent a reduction of the specified activity as compared to the level of activity in the absence of the test compound. In some embodiments there is at least about a 1.1 fold 1.25 fold 1.5 fold 2 fold 3 fold 4 fold 5 fold 6 fold 8 fold 10 fold twelve fold fifteen fold fifty fold one hundred fold or more increase in ubiquitin E3 ligase activity.

Inhibitors or activators identified in the first round of screening can optionally be analyzed individually in an assay to determine the ICand specificity using ubiquitin E3 ligase assays as disclosed herein. Compounds having a low ICand exhibiting specificity for the complexes disclosed herein can be further analyzed in tissue culture and or in whole organism to determine their in vivo effects on ubiquitin E3 ligase activity cell growth e.g. by trypsinization and trypan blue staining and or toxicity.

Test compounds that can be screened in accordance with the methods provided herein encompass numerous chemical classes including but not limited to synthetic or semi synthetic chemicals purified natural products proteins antibodies peptides peptide aptamers nucleic acids oligonucleotides carbohydrates lipids or other small or large organic or inorganic molecules. Small molecules are desirable because such molecules are more readily absorbed after oral administration and have fewer potential antigenic determinants. Non peptide agents or small molecule libraries are generally prepared by a synthetic approach but recent advances in biosynthetic methods using enzymes may enable one to prepare chemical libraries that are otherwise difficult to synthesize chemically. Small molecule libraries can also be obtained from various commercial entities for example SPECS and BioSPEC B.V. Rijswijk the Netherlands Chembridge Corporation San Diego Calif. Comgenex USA Inc. Princeton N.J. Maybridge Chemical Ltd. Cornwall UK and Asinex Moscow Russia .

The method of identifying a compound that modulates the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of the native or reconstituted complex can be a cell based or cell free method. Cell based methods can be carried out in cultured cells or in whole organisms. In representative embodiments the method provides high throughput screening capabilities to identify modulators of the complex. For example a cell based high throughput screening assay for use in accordance with the methods disclosed herein includes that described by Stockwell et al. 1999 6 71 83 wherein biosynthetic processes such as DNA synthesis and post translational processes are monitored in a miniaturized cell based assay. For example cultured cells can be contacted with the test compound and labeled ubiquitin for a time sufficient for ubiquitination of the protein substrate with the labeled ubiquitin. Ubiquitination of the protein can then be determined using any method known in the art. According to this embodiment the enzyme complex can be the native complex or the reconstituted complex e.g. the cell can be genetically modified to express the recombinant protein components of the complex .

As another illustration a cell based assay to identify modulators of endogenous ubiquitin E3 ligase activity can encompass the use of a reporter gene such as luciferase Green Fluorescent Protein glucuronidase galactosidase and the like operably linked to an upstream regulatory region of a target gene such as a Hox gene known to be targeted by the endogenous complex. Cells expressing the reporter construct can be exposed to the test compound and reporter gene expression can be monitored. To confirm that the modulator is specifically targeting the complex a secondary in vitro screen can be employed using the native or reconstituted complex. Alternatively components of the reconstituted complex can be expressed in a cell that lacks an endogenous complex and used to directly screen for modulators.

High throughput cell free methods for screening small molecule libraries for candidate protein binding molecules are well known in the art and can be employed to identify molecules that bind to at least one component of the complex and modulate the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity and or binding to a protein substrate e.g. a histone or H2A . For example a protein substrate e.g. free histones or nucleosomal histone substrates can be coated on a multi well plate or other suitable surface and a reaction mix containing the complex added to the protein substrate. Prior to concurrent with or subsequent to the addition of the complex a test compound can be added to the well or surface containing the substrate e.g. filter well matrix bead etc. . The reaction mixture can be washed with a solution that substantially reflects physiological conditions to remove unbound or weakly bound test compounds. Alternatively the test compound can be immobilized and a solution of complex can be contacted with the well matrix filter bead or other surface. The ability of a test compound to modulate binding of the complex to the protein substrate can be determined by labeling e.g. radio labeling or chemiluminescence or competitive ELISA assays.

Library screening can be performed in any format that allows rapid preparation and processing of multiple reactions. Stock solutions of the test agents as well as assay components are prepared manually and all subsequent pipetting diluting mixing washing incubating sample readout and data collecting is done using commercially available robotic pipetting equipment automated work stations and analytical instruments for detecting the signal generated by the assay e.g. binding to a protein substrate and or ubiquitination of a protein substrate e.g. histone or H2A .

A variety of other reagents can be included in the screening assay of the instant invention. These include reagents like salts ATP neutral proteins e.g. albumin detergents etc. which can be used to facilitate optimal protein protein binding and or enzymatic activity and or reduce non specific or background interactions. Also reagents that otherwise improve the efficiency of the assay such as protease inhibitors nuclease inhibitors anti microbial agents and the like may be used. The mixture of components can be added in any order that provides for the requisite binding and or enzymatic activity.

The methods described above can further be practiced to identify a compound that modulates the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2 which may or may not be present as part of a complex. The Bmi1 Ring1 or Ring2 protein can be a native protein or a recombinant protein. Modification of the screening methods described above with respect to the native and reconstituted complexes for use in identifying compounds that modulate the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2 will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The present invention also provides methods of identifying a candidate compound for treating hyperproliferative disorders such as tumors cancers and or neoplastic disorders and or pre malignant and or non neoplastic and or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders the methods comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of identifying a compound that modulates e.g. enhances or inhibits the H2A E3 ligase activity of a native or reconstituted complex. The complex can be a reconstituted or native complex as described herein with the exception that the native or reconstituted complex can also be a complex as described by Levine et al. 2002 22 6070 6078 dPRC1 and hPRC H and or Francis et al. 8 545 556 functional core of dPRC1 .

In particular embodiments the method comprises consists essentially of or consists of contacting a native or reconstituted complex comprising Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2 and optionally HPH2 and or HPC3 with an H2A substrate in the presence of a test compound and detecting the level of H2A ubiquitination under conditions sufficient to provide H2A ubiquitination wherein a change e.g. increase or reduction in H2A ubiquitination as compared with the level of H2A ubiquitination in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a candidate compound for the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as tumors cancers and or neoplastic disorders and or premalignant and or non neoplastic and or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In particular embodiments the method comprises detecting the level of H2A K119 ubiquitination.

The present invention also encompasses methods of identifying a candidate compound for treating cancer. Exemplary cancers include malignant disorders such as breast cancers osteosarcomas angiosarcomas fibrosarcomas and or other sarcomas leukemias lymphomas sinus tumors ovarian cervical uretal bladder prostate and or other genitourinary cancers colon esophageal and or stomach cancers and or other gastrointestinal cancers lung cancers myelomas pancreatic cancers liver cancers kidney cancers endocrine cancers skin cancers and or central nervous system e.g. brain and or peripheral nervous system tumors malignant and or benign including gliomas and or neuroblastomas. By the terms treating cancer or treatment of cancer it is intended that the severity of the cancer is reduced or the cancer is at least partially eliminated and or that the spread of the cancer is slowed and or reduced.

In practicing methods of identifying compounds to treat hyperproliferative disorders in particular cancer H2A E3 ligase activity can be determined by any method known to those in the art as described above with respect to methods of identifying compounds that modulate H2A E3 ligase activity.

Also contemplated are methods of identifying a candidate compound for the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as tumors cancers and or neoplastic disorders and or pre malignant and or non neoplastic and or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders the method comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of identifying a compound that modulates e.g. enhances or inhibits the H2A E3 ligase activity e.g. catalytic activity or enhancing activity of Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2. In particular embodiments the method comprises consists essentially of or consists of contacting Bmi1 and or Ring1 and or Ring2 with an H2A substrate in the presence of a test compound and detecting the level of H2A ubiquitination under conditions sufficient to provide H2A ubiquitination wherein a change e.g. reduction in H2A ubiquitination as compared with the level of H2A ubiquitination in the absence of the test compound indicates that the test compound is a candidate compound for the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as tumors cancers and or neoplastic disorders and or premalignant and or non neoplastic and or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In particular embodiments the method comprises detecting the level of H2A K119 ubiquitination. The Bmi1 Ring1 or Ring2 protein can be a native protein or a recombinant protein.

The native and reconstituted complexes described herein are also implicated in Hox gene silencing X inactivation genomic imprinting stem cell pluripotency and or germline development. Those skilled in the art will understand that the methods described above can be practiced to identify compounds that modulate Hox gene silencing X inactivation genomic imprinting stem cell pluripotency and or germline development. For example in some embodiments compounds that enhance the H2A E3 ligase activity of the complex are identified as compounds that enhance Hox gene silencing and compounds that inhibit H2A E3 ligase activity are identified as compounds that inhibit Hox gene silencing.

In addition to the screening methods described above the reconstituted or native complexes described herein can be used as a research reagent e.g. to study the function of the complex or to study histone function. Further the reconstituted and native complexes described in connection with screening methods can be used in methods of ubiquitinating a protein substrate e.g. histone or H2A .

The present invention further provides methods of modulating ubiquitination of a protein substrate for example histone H2A or H2A K119 ubiquitination . In particular embodiments the invention provides methods of modulating ubiquitination of a protein substrate comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of contacting a cell with a modulator of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity of a native or reconstituted complex identified according to the screening methods described above. In some embodiments the cell is a cultured cell. In other embodiments the cell is a cell in vivo in a subject.

Subjects for which implementation of the present invention is appropriate include but are not limited to avians and mammals with mammals being preferred. The term avian as used herein includes but is not limited to chickens ducks geese quail turkeys and pheasants. In some embodiments human subjects are preferred. Human subjects include subjects of both genders and at any stage of development i.e. neonate infant juvenile adolescent adult . While some embodiments of the present invention are primarily concerned with implementation regarding human subjects the invention can also be carried out on animal subjects particularly mammalian subjects such as non human primates bovines ovines caprines equines felines canines lagomorphs rats mice etc. The present invention is carried out on animals for veterinary purposes for drug screening and or drug development purposes.

In further embodiments the present invention provides pharmaceutical preparations comprising an inhibitor of the native or reconstituted complexes described above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The present invention further provides the use of the inhibitor of the reconstituted complex described above or the screening assays described herein for the preparation of a medicament.

In further embodiments the present invention provides a kit for determining modulation of protein ubiquitination the kit comprising consisting essentially of or consisting of a Bmi1 Ring2 or a native or reconstituted complex as described herein in connection with the screening methods or nucleic acid encoding any of the foregoing and b written instructions for methods for determining modulation of the ubiquitin E3 ligase activity e.g. by detecting a ubiquitinated protein substrate such as H2A and optionally additional reagents or apparatus for carrying out methods for determining modulation of ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. In particular embodiments the method is directed to determining modulation of histone H2A or H2A K119 ubiquitination.

The invention also provides a kit for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate the kit comprising a Bmi1 Ring2 or a native or reconstituted complex as descried herein in connection with the screening methods or nucleic acid encoding any of the foregoing and b written instructions for methods for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate and optionally additional reagents or apparatus for carrying out methods for ubiquitinating a target protein substrate. Optionally the target protein substrate is a histone or H2A .

The kits of the invention can further comprise an E1 ligase and or an E2 ligase or nucleic acids encoding the same . The kit can further comprise a labeled ubiquitin and optionally a reagent for detecting the labeled ubiquitin e.g. an antibody against a peptide tag such as FLAG . As further options the kit can comprise a protein substrate e.g. a histone or H2A as either free histone or in a nucleosome form ATP buffers salts and or other stock reagents for carrying out the inventive methods.

Any viral vector that is known in the art can be used in the present invention. Examples of such viral vectors include but are not limited to vectors derived from Adenoviridae Baculoviridae Birnaviridae Bunyaviridae Caliciviridae Capillovirus group Carlavirus group Carmovirus virus group Group Caulimovirus Closterovirus Group Commelina yellow mottle virus group Comovirus virus group Coronaviridae PM2 phage group Corcicoviridae Group Cryptic virus group Cryptovirus Cucumovirus virus group Family PHgr 6 phage group Cysioviridae Group Carnation ringspot Dianthovirus virus group Group Broad bean wilt Fabavirus virus group Filoviridae Flaviviridae Furovirus group Group Geminivirus Group Giardiavirus Hepadnaviridae Herpesviridae Hordeivirus virus group Illarvirus virus group Inoviridae Iridoviridae Leviviridae Lipothrixviridae Luteovirus group Marafivirus virus group Maize chlorotic dwarf virus group icroviridae Myoviridae Necrovirus group Nepovirus virus group Nodaviridae Orthomyxoviridae Papovaviridae Paramyxoviridae Parsnip yellow fleck virus group Partitiviridae Parvoviridae Pea enation mosaic virus group Phycodnaviridae Picomaviridae Plasmaviridae Prodoviridae Polydnaviridae Potexvirus group Potyvirus Poxviridae Reoviridae Retroviridae Rhabdoviridae Group Rhizidiovirus Siphoviridae Sobemovirus group SSV 1 Type Phages Tectiviridae Tenuivirus Tetraviridae Group Tobamovirus Group Tobravirus Togaviridae Group Tombusvirus Group Torovirus Totiviridae Group Tymovirus and plant virus satellites.

Protocols for producing recombinant viral vectors and for using viral vectors for nucleic acid delivery can be found in Ausubel F. M. et al. eds. Greene Publishing Associates 1989 and other standard laboratory manuals e.g. Vectors for Gene Therapy. In . John Wiley and Sons Inc. 1997 .

The term baculovirus as used herein is intended to encompass all baculoviruses. Baculoviruses are divided into three subfamilies including non occluded baculoviruses NOVs granulosis viruses GVs and nuclear polyhedrosis viruses NPVs . Although certain GVs and NOVs have been carefully studied NPVs are the most thoroughly characterized of the baculovirus subfamilies. Examples of NPVs include NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV NPV and NPV.

Standard procedures for engineering baculoviruses having various foreign genetic elements are well known in the art. Procedures for introducing recombinant baculoviruses into insects or cells thereof are also well known. See e.g. Pfeifer et al. 1997 Gene 188 183 190 and Clem et al. 1994 J Virol 68 6759 6762. Baculoviruses expressing mammalian RbAp48 are described in Cao et al. 15 57 67 2004 and Zhang et al. 13 1924 1935 1999 .

The term adenovirus as used herein is intended to encompass all adenoviruses including the Mastadenovirus and Aviadenovirus genera. To date at least forty seven human serotypes of adenoviruses have been identified see e.g. FIELDS et al. VIROLOGY volume 2 chapter 67 3d ed. Lippincott Raven Publishers . Preferably the adenovirus is a serogroup C adenovirus still more preferably the adenovirus is serotype 2 Ad2 or serotype 5 Ad5 .

The various regions of the adenovirus genome have been mapped and are understood by those skilled in the art see e.g. FIELDS et al. VIROLOGY volume 2 chapters 67 and 68 3d ed. Lippincott Raven Publishers . The genomic sequences of the various Ad serotypes as well as the nucleotide sequence of the particular coding regions of the Ad genome are known in the art and can be accessed e.g. from GenBank and NCBI see e.g. GenBank Accession Nos. J0917 M73260 X73487 AF108105 L19443 NC 003266 and NCBI Accession Nos. NC 001405 NC 001460 NC 002067 NC 00454 .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive adenovirus vectors can be modified or targeted as described in Douglas et al. 1996 14 1574 U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 315 to Roy et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 770 442 to Wickham et al. and or U.S. Pat. No. 5 712 136 to Wickham et al.

An adenovirus vector genome or rAd vector genome will typically comprise the Ad terminal repeat sequences and packaging signal. An adenovirus particle or recombinant adenovirus particle comprises an adenovirus vector genome or recombinant adenovirus vector genome respectively packaged within an adenovirus capsid. Generally the adenovirus vector genome is most stable at sizes of about 28 kb to 38 kb approximately 75 to 105 of the native genome size . In the case of an adenovirus vector containing large deletions and a relatively small heterologous nucleic acid of interest stuffer DNA can be used to maintain the total size of the vector within the desired range by methods known in the art.

Normally adenoviruses bind to a cell surface receptor CAR of susceptible cells via the knob domain of the fiber protein on the virus surface. The fiber knob receptor is a 45 kDa cell surface protein which has potential sites for both glycosylation and phosphorylation. Bergelson et al. 1997 275 1320 1323 . A secondary method of entry for adenovirus is through integrins present on the cell surface. Arginine Glycine Aspartic Acid RGD sequences of the adenoviral penton base protein bind integrins on the cell surface.

The adenovirus genome can be manipulated such that it encodes and expresses a nucleic acid of interest but is inactivated in terms of its ability to replicate in a normal lytic viral life cycle. See for example Berkner et al. 1988 6 616 Rosenfeld et al. 1991 252 431 434 and Rosenfeld et al. 1992 68 143 155. Representative adenoviral vectors derived from the adenovirus strain Ad type 5 d1324 or other strains of adenovirus e.g. Ad2 Ad3 Ad7 etc. are known to those skilled in the art.

Recombinant adenoviruses can be advantageous in certain circumstances in that they are not capable of infecting nondividing cells and can be used to infect a wide variety of cell types including epithelial cells. Furthermore the virus particle is relatively stable and amenable to purification and concentration and can be modified so as to affect the spectrum of infectivity. Additionally introduced adenoviral DNA and foreign DNA contained therein is not integrated into the genome of a host cell but remains episomal thereby avoiding potential problems that can occur as a result of insertional mutagenesis in situations where introduced DNA becomes integrated into the host genome e.g. as occurs with retroviral DNA . Moreover the carrying capacity of the adenoviral genome for foreign DNA is large relative to other delivery vectors Haj Ahmand and Graham 1986 57 267 .

In particular embodiments the adenovirus genome contains a deletion therein so that at least one of the adenovirus genomic regions does not encode a functional protein. For example first generation adenovirus vectors are typically deleted for the E1 genes and packaged using a cell that expresses the E1 proteins e.g. 293 cells . The E3 region is also frequently deleted as well as there is no need for complementation of this deletion. In addition deletions in the E4 E2a protein IX and fiber protein regions have been described e.g. by Armentano et al 1997 71 2408 Gao et al. 1996 70 8934 Dedieu et al. 1997 71 4626 Wang et al. 1997 4 393 U.S. Pat. No. 5 882 877 to Gregory et al. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein in their entirety . Preferably the deletions are selected to avoid toxicity to the packaging cell. Wang et al. 1997 4 393 has described toxicity from constitutive co expression of the E4 and E1 genes by a packaging cell line. Toxicity can be avoided by regulating expression of the E1 and or E4 gene products by an inducible rather than a constitutive promoter. Combinations of deletions that avoid toxicity or other deleterious effects on the host cell can be routinely selected by those skilled in the art.

As further examples in particular embodiments the adenovirus is deleted in the polymerase pol preterminal protein pTP IVa2 and or 100K regions see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 328 958 PCT publication WO 00 12740 and PCT publication WO 02 098466 Ding et al. 2002 5 436 Hodges et al. 75 5913 Ding et al. 2001 12 955 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for the teachings of how to make and use deleted adenovirus vectors for gene delivery .

The term deleted adenovirus as used herein refers to the omission of at least one nucleotide from the indicated region of the adenovirus genome. Deletions can be greater than about 1 2 3 5 10 20 50 100 200 or even 500 nucleotides. Deletions in the various regions of the adenovirus genome can be about at least 1 5 10 25 50 75 90 95 99 or more of the indicated region. Alternately the entire region of the adenovirus genome is deleted. Preferably the deletion will prevent or essentially prevent the expression of a functional protein from that region. In general larger deletions are preferred as these have the additional advantage that they will increase the carrying capacity of the deleted adenovirus for a heterologous nucleotide sequence of interest. The various regions of the adenovirus genome have been mapped and are understood by those skilled in the art see e.g. FIELDS et al. VIROLOGY volume 2 chapters 67 and 68 3d ed. Lippincott Raven Publishers .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that typically with the exception of the E3 genes any deletions will need to be complemented in order to propagate replicate and package additional virus e.g. by transcomplementation with a packaging cell.

The present invention can also be practiced with gutted adenovirus vectors as that term is understood in the art see e.g. Lieber et al. 1996 70 8944 60 in which essentially all of the adenovirus genomic sequences are deleted.

Adeno associated viruses AAV have also been employed as nucleic acid delivery vectors. For a review see Muzyczka et al. . 1992 158 97 129 . AAV are parvoviruses and have small icosahedral virions 18 26 nanometers in diameter and contain a single stranded genomic DNA molecule 4 5 kilobases in size. The viruses contain either the sense or antisense strand of the DNA molecule and either strand is incorporated into the virion. Two open reading frames encode a series of Rep and Cap polypeptides. Rep polypeptides Rep50 Rep52 Rep68 and Rep78 are involved in replication rescue and integration of the AAV genome although significant activity can be observed in the absence of all four Rep polypeptides. The Cap proteins VP1 VP2 VP3 form the virion capsid. Flanking the rep and cap open reading frames at the 5 and 3 ends of the genome are 145 basepair inverted terminal repeats ITRs the first 125 basepairs of which are capable of forming Y or T shaped duplex structures. It has been shown that the ITRs represent the minimal cis sequences required for replication rescue packaging and integration of the AAV genome. Typically in recombinant AAV vectors rAAV the entire rep and cap coding regions are excised and replaced with a heterologous nucleic acid of interest.

AAV are among the few viruses that can integrate their DNA into non dividing cells and exhibit a high frequency of stable integration into human chromosome 19 see for example Flotte et al. 1992 7 349 356 Samulski et al. 1989 63 3822 3828 and McLaughlin et al. 1989 62 1963 1973 . A variety of nucleic acids have been introduced into different cell types using AAV vectors see for example Hermonat et al. 1984 81 6466 6470 Tratschin et al. 1985 4 2072 2081 Wondisford et al. 1988 2 32 39 Tratschin et al. 1984 51 611 619 and Flotte et al. 1993 268 3781 3790 .

A rAAV vector genome will typically comprise the AAV terminal repeat sequences and packaging signal. An AAV particle or rAAV particle comprises an AAV vector genome or rAAV vector genome respectively packaged within an AAV capsid. The rAAV vector itself need not contain AAV genes encoding the capsid and Rep proteins. In particular embodiments of the invention the rep and or cap genes are deleted from the AAV genome. In a representative embodiment the rAAV vector retains only the terminal AAV sequences ITRs necessary for integration excision replication.

Sources for the AAV capsid genes can include serotypes AAV 1 AAV 2 AAV 3 including 3a and 3b AAV 4 AAV 5 AAV 6 AAV 7 AAV 8 as well as bovine AAV and avian AAV and any other virus classified by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses ICTV as an AAV see e.g. FIELDS et al. VIROLOGY volume 2 chapter 69 4th ed. Lippincott Raven Publishers .

Because of packaging limitations the total size of the rAAV genome will preferably be less than about 5.2 5 4.8 4.6 4.5 or 4.2 kb in size.

Any suitable method known in the art can be used to produce AAV vectors expressing the nucleic acids encoding the components of the complex of this invention see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 139 941 5 858 775 6 146 874 for illustrative methods . In one particular method AAV stocks can be produced by co transfection of a rep cap vector encoding AAV packaging functions and the template encoding the AAV vDNA into human cells infected with the helper adenovirus Samulski et al. 1989 63 3822 .

In other particular embodiments the adenovirus helper virus is a hybrid helper virus that encodes AAV Rep and or capsid proteins. Hybrid helper Ad AAV vectors expressing AAV rep and or cap genes and methods of producing AAV stocks using these reagents are known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 589 377 and 5 871 982 6 251 677 and 6 387 368 . Preferably the hybrid Ad of the invention expresses the AAV capsid proteins i.e. VP1 VP2 and VP3 . Alternatively or additionally the hybrid adenovirus can express one or more of AAV Rep proteins i.e. Rep40 Rep52 Rep68 and or Rep78 . The AAV sequences can be operatively associated with a tissue specific or inducible promoter.

The AAV rep and or cap genes can alternatively be provided by a packaging cell that stably expresses the genes see e.g. Gao et al. 1998 9 2353 Inoue et al. 1998 72 7024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 484 WO 98 27207 U.S. Pat. No. 5 658 785 WO 96 17947 .

Another vector for use in the present invention comprises Herpes Simplex Virus HSV . Herpes simplex virions have an overall diameter of 150 to 200 nm and a genome consisting of one double stranded DNA molecule that is 120 to 200 kilobases in length. Glycoprotein D gD is a structural component of the HSV envelope that mediates virus entry into host cells. The initial interaction of HSV with cell surface heparin sulfate proteoglycans is mediated by another glycoprotein glycoprotein C gC and or glycoprotein B gB . This is followed by interaction with one or more of the viral glycoproteins with cellular receptors. It has been shown that glycoprotein D of HSV binds directly to Herpes virus entry mediator HVEM of host cells. HVEM is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily Whitbeck et al. 1997 71 6083 6093 . Finally gD gB and the complex of gH and gL act individually or in combination to trigger pH independent fusion of the viral envelope with the host cell plasma membrane. The virus itself is transmitted by direct contact and replicates in the skin or mucosal membranes before infecting cells of the nervous system for which HSV has particular tropism. It exhibits both a lytic and a latent function. The lytic cycle results in viral replication and cell death. The latent function allows for the virus to be maintained in the host for an extremely long period of time.

HSV can be modified for the delivery of nucleic acids to cells by producing a vector that exhibits only the latent function for long term gene maintenance. HSV vectors are useful for nucleic acid delivery because they allow for a large DNA insert of up to or greater than 20 kilobases they can be produced with extremely high titers and they have been shown to express nucleic acids for a long period of time in the central nervous system as long as the lytic cycle does not occur.

In other particular embodiments of the present invention the delivery vector of interest is a retrovirus. Retroviruses normally bind to a virus specific cell surface receptor e.g. CD4 for HIV CAT for MLV E ecotropic Murine leukemic virus E RAM1 GLVR2 for murine leukemic virus A MLV A GLVR1 for Gibbon Ape leukemia virus GALV and Feline leukemia virus B FeLV B . The development of specialized cell lines termen packaging cells which produce only replication defective retroviruses has increased the utility of retroviruses for gene therapy and defective retroviruses are characterized for use in gene transfer for gene therapy purposes for a review see Miller 1990 76 271 . A replication defective retrovirus can be packaged into virions which can be used to infect a target cell through the use of a helper virus by standard techniques.

Yet another suitable vector is a poxvirus vector. These viruses are very complex containing more than 100 proteins although the detailed structure of the virus is presently unknown. Extracellular forms of the virus have two membranes while intracellular particles only have an inner membrane. The outer surface of the virus is made up of lipids and proteins that surround the biconcave core. Poxviruses are antigenically complex inducing both specific and cross reacting antibodies after infection. Poxvirus receptors are not presently known but it is likely that there exists more than one given the tropism of poxvirus for a wide range of cells. Poxvirus gene expression is well studied due to the interest in using vaccinia virus as a vector for expression of nucleic acids.

In addition to viral transfer methods such as those illustrated above non viral methods can also be employed. Many non viral methods of nucleic acid transfer rely on normal mechanisms used by mammalian cells for the uptake and intracellular transport of macromolecules. In particular embodiments non viral nucleic acid delivery systems rely on endocytic pathways for the uptake of the nucleic acid molecule by the targeted cell. Exemplary nucleic acid delivery systems of this type include liposomal derived systems poly lysine conjugates and artificial viral envelopes.

Plasmid vectors can be used in the practice of the present invention. Naked plasmids can be introduced into muscle cells by injection into the tissue. Expression can extend over many months although the number of positive cells is typically low Wolff et al. 1989 247 247 . Cationic lipids have been demonstrated to aid in introduction of nucleic acids into some cells in culture Felgner and Ringold 1989 337 387 . Injection of cationic lipid plasmid DNA complexes into the circulation of mice has been shown to result in expression of the DNA in lung Brigham et al. 1989 298 278 . One advantage of plasmid DNA is that it can be introduced into non replicating cells.

As indicated above the components of the reconstituted complex can be produced in and optionally purified from cultured cells or organisms expressing one or more heterologous nucleic acids encoding the proteins of the complex for a variety of purposes e.g. screening assays to identify compounds for modulating ubiquitin E3 ligase activity or for treating cancer large scale protein production and or research purposes .

Generally the heterologous nucleic acid is incorporated into an expression vector viral or nonviral as described above . Expression vectors compatible with various host cells are well known in the art and contain suitable elements for transcription and translation of nucleic acids. Typically an expression vector contains an expression cassette which includes in the 5 to 3 direction a promoter a coding sequence encoding a Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPC3 and or HPH2 protein operatively associated with the promoter and optionally a termination sequence including a stop signal for RNA polymerase and a polyadenylation signal for polyadenylase.

Expression vectors can be designed for expression of polypeptides in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. For example polypeptides can be expressed in bacterial cells such as insect cells e.g. in the baculovirus expression system yeast cells or mammalian cells. Some suitable host cells are discussed further in Goeddel Methods in Enzymology 185 Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . Examples of vectors for expression in yeast S. cerevisiae include pYepSecl Baldari et al. 1987 6 229 234 pMFa Kurjan and Herskowitz 1982 30 933 943 pJRY88 Schultz et al. 1987 54 113 123 and pYES2 Invitrogen Corporation San Diego Calif. . Baculovirus vectors available for expression of nucleic acids to produce proteins in cultured insect cells e.g. Sf 9 cells are described above and include the pAc series Smith et al. 1983 3 2156 2165 and the pVL series Lucklow V. A. and Summers M. d. 1989 170 31 39 .

Examples of mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 Seed 1987 329 840 and pMT2PC Kaufman et al. 1987 6 187 195 . When used in mammalian cells the expression vector s control functions are often provided by viral regulatory elements. For example commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma adenovirus 2 cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus 40.

Vectors can be introduced into prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells via conventional transformation or transfection techniques. As used herein the terms transformation and transfection refer to a variety of art recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acids e.g. DNA into a host cell including calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co precipitation DEAE dextran mediated transfection lipofection electroporation microinjection DNA loaded liposomes lipofectamine DNA complexes cell sonication gene bombardment using high velocity microprojectiles and viral mediated transfection. Suitable methods for transforming or transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory press 1989 and other laboratory manuals.

When producing stably transformed cells often only a small fraction of cells in particular mammalian cells integrate a foreign DNA into their genome. In order to identify and select these integrants a nucleic acid that encodes a selectable marker e.g. resistance to antibiotics can be introduced into the host cells along with the nucleic acid of interest. Preferred selectable markers include those that confer resistance to drugs such as G418 hygromycin and methotrexate. Nucleic acids encoding a selectable marker can be introduced into a host cell on the same vector as that comprising the nucleic acid of interest or can be introduced on a separate vector. Cells stably transfected with the introduced nucleic acid can be identified by drug selection e.g. cells that have incorporated the selectable marker gene will survive while the other cells die .

Recombinant proteins can also be produced in a transgenic plant in which the isolated nucleic acid encoding the protein is inserted into the nuclear or plastidic genome. Plant transformation is known as the art. See in general Vol. 153 Recombinant DNA Part D 1987 Wu and Grossman Eds. Academic Press and European Patent Application EP 693554.

Foreign nucleic acids can be introduced into plant cells or protoplasts by several methods. For example nucleic acid can be mechanically transferred by microinjection directly into plant cells by use of micropipettes. Foreign nucleic acid can also be transferred into a plant cell by using polyethylene glycol which forms a precipitation complex with the genetic material that is taken up by the cell Paszkowski et al. 1984 3 2712 22 . Foreign nucleic acid can be introduced into a plant cell by electroporation Fromm et al. 1985 82 5824 . In this technique plant protoplasts are electroporated in the presence of plasmids or nucleic acids containing the relevant genetic construct. Electrical impulses of high field strength reversibly permeabilize biomembranes allowing the introduction of the plasmids. Electroporated plant protoplasts reform the cell wall divide and form a plant callus. Selection of the transformed plant cells comprising the foreign nucleic acid can be accomplished using phenotypic markers.

Cauliflower mosaic virus CaMV can be used as a vector for introducing foreign nucleic acids into plant cells Hohn et al. 1982 Molecular Biology of Plant Tumors Academic Press New York pp. 549 560 Howell U.S. Pat. No. 4 407 956 . CaMV viral DNA is inserted into a parent bacterial plasmid creating a recombinant DNA molecule which can be propagated in bacteria. The recombinant plasmid can be further modified by introduction of the desired DNA sequence. The modified viral portion of the recombinant plasmid is then excised from the parent bacterial plasmid and used to inoculate the plant cells or plants.

High velocity ballistic penetration by small particles can be used to introduce foreign nucleic acid into plant cells. Nucleic acid is disposed within the matrix of small beads or particles or on the surface Klein et al. 1987 327 70 73 . Although typically only a single introduction of a new nucleic acid segment is required this method also provides for multiple introductions.

A nucleic acid can be introduced into a plant cell by infection of a plant cell an explant a meristem or a seed with transformed with the nucleic acid. Under appropriate conditions the transformed plant cells are grown to form shoots roots and develop further into plants. The nucleic acids can be introduced into plant cells for example by means of the Ti plasmid of . The Ti plasmid is transmitted to plant cells upon infection by and is stably integrated into the plant genome Horsch et al. 1984 Inheritance of Functional Foreign Genes in Plants 233 496498 Fraley et al. 1983 80 4803 .

Methodology. The E3 ligase responsible for H2A ubiquitination was identified by developing an assay to monitor enzymatic activity. In this assay histone octamers 5 g or oligonucleosomes 5 g were incubated with 20 L protein fractions or recombinant proteins in a 36 L reaction containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 5 mM MgCl 2 mM NaF 0.6 mM DTT 2 mM ATP 10 M Okada acid 0.1 g ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 CALBIOCHEM LaJolla Calif. 0.6 g ubiquitin conjugating enzyme Ubc5c 1 g FLAG ubiquitin Sigma St. Louis Mo. . After incubation at 37 C. for 1 hour the reaction was terminated by addition of SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis PAGE loading buffer. The proteins were resolved in 8 15 SDS PAGE blotted and detected with the anti FLAG antibody.

Results. Western blot analysis of the reactions containing E1 E2 ATP FLAG ubiquitin F Ub and HeLa nuclear protein fractions revealed a positive FLAG tagged signal around 25 kDa the size of H2A plus F Ub indicating that a potential H2A E3 ligase activity was present in the corresponding fractions lanes 19 21 of the rectangle area . The activity was nucleosomal histone specific as parallel experiments using core histone octamers failed to detect such an activity lanes 8 10 . A weak activity potentially for H2B was also detected lane 20 . Since the 0.5 M P11 fraction derived from the nuclear pellet had the strongest activity further analysis was conducted on this fraction. To verify the presence of an E3 ligase activity in the 0.5 M P11 fraction the dependency of activity on each of the components in the reaction was tested. Results shown in indicate that the appearance of the ubiquitinated protein bands around 25 kDa was dependent upon each component.

To ascertain whether the 25 kDa protein band was uH2A a protein band corresponding to ubiquitinated H2A was excised and subjected to trypsin digestion and MALDI TOF MS analysis Devroe et al. 2004 279 24444 51 . A peptide corresponding to residues 119 125 of uH2A Lys Thr Glu Ser His His Lys SEQ ID NO 1 was identified . A peptide corresponding to the C terminal ubiquitin i.e. Lys Arg Gly Gly SEQ ID NO 2 attached to lysine 119 of H2A indicated by in SEQ ID NO 1 was also identified. In addition an antibody against uH2A recognized the protein band specifically. Thus an E3 ligase activity was identified that specifically ubiquitinates H2A at lysine 119 a known in vivo ubiquitination site Nickel Davie 1989 28 964 8 .

Methodology. HeLa nuclear proteins were separated into nuclear extract and nuclear pellet according to established methods Wang et al. 2001 8 1207 17 . Nuclear pellet solubilization fractionation on DEAE 52 P11 and DEAE 5PW columns were performed according to well known methods Cao et al. 2002 298 1039 43 . Proteins bound to DEAE 5PW column were eluted with a 12 column volume linear gradient from 50 mM to 500 mM ammonium sulfate in buffer D 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 0.1 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT 0.2 mM PMSF and 10 glycerol . Fractions containing the ubiquitin ligase activity for H2A were eluted from the column between 70 150 mM ammonium sulfate. Active fractions were then combined and adjusted to 500 mM ammonium sulfate with saturated ammonium sulfate before loading onto a 22 mL Phenyl SEPHAROSE column Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. . The Phenyl SEPHAROSE column was eluted with a 20 column volume linear gradient from 500 mM to 0 mM ammonium sulfate in buffer D. The H2A ubiquitin ligase activity eluted between 345 240 mM ammonium sulfate. Active fractions were pooled and concentrated to 5 mL before loading onto a 120 mL SEPHACRYL 300 gel filtration column Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. . The ubiquitin ligase activity was eluted between 220 443 kDa. Active fractions were combined and dialyzed against buffer P 5 mM HEPES KOH pH 7.5 40 mM KCl 0.01 TRITON X 100 0.01 mM CaCl 0.5 mM PMSF 1 mM DTT and 10 glycerol containing 10 mM potassium phosphate BP10 and loaded onto a 5 mL hydroxyapatite column BIO RAD Hercules Calif. . The bound proteins were eluted with a 20 column volume linear gradient from BP10 to BP600. The H2A ubiquitin ligase activity was eluted from the column between 340 550 mM potassium phosphate. Active fractions were combined and loaded onto a 1 mL MONOQ column Pharmacia Piscataway N.J. after dialysis against buffer C 40 mM HEPES KOH pH 7.9 0.1 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT 0.2 mM PMSF and 10 glycerol containing 150 mM KCl. Bound proteins were eluted with a 20 column volume linear gradient from 150 mM to 500 mM KCl in buffer C. The H2A ubiquitin ligase activity was eluted between 220 320 mM KCl. To identify the proteins that co eluted with the H2A ubiquitin ligase activity active fractions between 29 32 were combined dialyzed to BC50 and bound to a 200 L P11 column before being eluted with BC600. The eluted proteins were resolved in 8 15 gradient SDS PAGE. After COOMASSIE staining and destaining candidate polypeptides were excised and subjected to trypsin digestion and a combination of peptide mass fingerprinting using MALDI TOF MS and MS sequencing using MALDI TOF TOF MS MS Devroe et al. 2004 279 24444 51 Sebastiaan Winkler et al. 2002 26 260 9 .

Results. H2A E3 ligase activity was monitored through the seven chromatography columns . After purification of the 0.5 M P11 fraction through DEAE 5PW and Phenyl SEPHAROSE columns the relative mass of the enzyme complex was determined on a S300 gel filtration column and found to be about 250 300 kDa top panel . Further purification on two additional columns identified four candidate protein bands top panel marked by which correlated with enzymatic activity second panel . The limited amount of sample prevented further purification of the complex. Thus MONOQ eluted samples were pooled between fractions 29 32. After concentration the samples were resolved on SDS PAGE and the four candidate protein bands were recovered for identification. Mass spectrometry analysis identified the middle two protein bands as Ring1 and Ring2 Lee et al. 2001 503 61 4 Satijn et al. 1997 17 4105 13 two human homologs of PRC1 core component dRing Sce Sex combs extra Fritsch et al. 2003 120 949 54 Gorfinkiel et al. 2004 121 449 62 Francis et al. 2001 8 545 56 . Western blot analysis confirmed that both proteins co fractionated with the ligase activity on the MONOQ column bottom two panels as well as on the S300 column bottom two panels . However the other two protein bands were not identified.

Methodology. To define the composition of the E3 ligase complex immunoaffinity purification was performed using an aliquot of hydroxyapatite input material and an antibody against Ring1. For immunopurification of the Ring1 complex affinity purified Ring1 antibodies Schoorlemmer et al. 1997 16 5930 42 were cross linked to protein A agarose beads according to standard methods Zhang et al. 1998 95 279 89 and incubated at 4 C. for 4 hours with an aliquot of hydroxyapatite input dialyzed against BC50. After three washings with BC500 and two washings with BC50 beads were divided into four aliquots for ubiquitin ligase assays western blot analysis silver stain analysis and protein identification 5 fold more than the other aliquots . Protein identification was performed as described above. Parallel experiments with rabbit IgG was also performed.

Results. Silver stain analysis revealed that anti Ring1 antibodies specifically immunoprecipitated four protein bands compare lanes 6 to 3 . Mass spectrometry analysis identified these proteins as Ring1 Bmi1 HPH2 human Polyhomeotic 2 and Ring2 . The identities of these proteins were also verified by western blot analysis bottom two panels . The protein complex was apparently responsible for the ligase activity as the activity was depleted in the flow through top panel compare lanes 5 and 2 . Collectively these results indicated that the H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase complex was composed of four PcG proteins including Ring1 Bmi1 HPH2 and Ring2. Given that a human Polycomb repressive complex containing Ring1 Ring2 Bmi1 HPH1 HPH2 HPH3 M33 SNF2H SCMH1 HSP70 and tubulin has been previously purified from HeLa cell lines expressing FLAG tagged Bmi1 or M33 and named hPRC1 Levine et al. 2002 22 6070 8 the instant complex was named hPRC1L human PRC1 like .

Constructs and Antibodies. Plasmids encoding GST Ring2 and GST Ring2 His69Tyr have been described Lee et al. 2001 503 61 4 . The GST Ring2 Arg70Cys mutant was generated by PCR based mutagenesis and confirmed by DNA sequence analysis. Plasmids encoding GST Ring1 and GST Bim1 were constructed by PCR amplification of EST clones CS0DI076YE14 and CL0BB004ZD04 and the inserts cloned into EcoRI and XhoI sites of pGEX KG vector. A plasmid encoding His dRing was constructed by RT PCR amplification of the RNA from embryos and the full length coding sequence inserted into the pQE30 vector. The His dRing Arg65Cys mutant was generated by replacing a PstI fragment of wild type dRing with a corresponding fragment from the mutant Sceallele. All the sequences were verified by DNA sequence analysis. Plasmid for His Ubc5c was a gift from Y. Xiong. Antibodies against uH2A and Bmi1 were purchased from UPSTATE Waltham Mass. . Antibodies against PC H3 3mK27 Ring1 and Ring2 have been previously described Cao et al. 2002 298 1039 43 Plath et al. 2003 300 131 5 Schoorlemmer et al. 1997 16 5930 42 . Antibody against dRing was generated in rabbits by injection of a His dRing fusion protein.

Results. Ring finger has been identified as a signature motif for ubiquitin E3 ligase Joazeiro Weissman 2000 102 549 52 . Of the four PcG proteins in the H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase complex three contain ring fingers . To determine the catalytic subunit of the E3 ligase complex each of the ring containing proteins was expressed as a GST fusion protein and their potential ubiquitin ligase activity analyzed using equal amounts of oligonucleosomal substrates. Results shown in indicate that only recombinant Ring2 was active bottom panel compare lanes 2 5 and 6 . To determine whether the ring finger domain of Ring2 was responsible for the enzymatic activity a conserved His residue involved in zinc binding was mutated to Tyr His69Tyr . This change completely abrogated the E3 ligase activity compare lanes 2 and 3 indicating that the ring finger domain of Ring2 was critical for its ubiquitin ligase activity. Previous studies in have identified a loss of function dRing Sce allele Sce that contains a single amino acid substitution Arg65Cys in the ring finger domain Fritsch et al. 2003 120 949 54 . To analyze the effect of this mutation on the E3 ligase activity a Ring2 mutant Arg70Cys that mimics the Scemutation was generated . This mutation also abrogated the Ring2 enzymatic activity compare lanes 2 and 4 indicating that the phenotypes associated with Scemay be linked to defective H2A ubiquitination. To verify this possibility wild type and a mutant dRing Arg65Cys that has the same mutation as that of the Sceallele were made and tested for E3 activity. Results shown in lanes 8 and 9 demonstrate that wild type dRing but not the mutant had H2A ubiquitin ligase activity. Therefore both Ring2 and dRing contain intrinsic E3 ligase activity and the conserved Arg70 Arg65 in dRing in the ring domain is critical for the enzymatic activity.

Methodology. To access the role of Ring2 in H2A ubiquitination in vivo two independent stable Ring2 knock down cell lines KD1 and KD2 were generated. Two different regions of human Ring2 mRNA were targeted for degradation using a vector based siRNA approach Wang et al. 2003 12 475 87 . Briefly vectors expressing the following hairpin RNAs were transfected into HeLa cells by EFFECTENE INVITROGEN Carlsbad Calif. . Transfected cells were selected in the presence of 2 g mL puromycin. Selected clones were amplified and the efficiency of Ring2 knock down as well as its effect on H2A ubiquitination were analyzed. Total cell lysates used for Ring2 western blot analysis were prepared according to established methods Wang et al. 2003 12 475 87 . To prepare samples for evaluation of H2A ubiquitination cells from a 100 mm plate were collected washed twice with cold phosphate buffered saline PBS suspended in 200 L PBS and adjusted to 0.2 N HCl by the addition of 2 N HCl. The suspension was kept on ice for 30 minutes and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 13 000 rpm. The supernatant was mixed with 200 L 25 trichloroacetic acid TCA and kept on ice for another 30 minutes. The precipitated proteins were collected and washed with acetone. Proteins were then dissolved in SDS loading buffer and analyzed by western blot. The two siRNAs targeted to Ring2 mRNA were 5 TT CAA GAG A 3 SEQ ID NO 3 and 5 TT CAA GAG A 3 SEQ ID NO 4 . Knock down cell line 1 KD1 was established from the first siRNA targeting amino acid 58 65 while knock down cell line 2 KD2 was established from the second siRNA targeting amino acid 204 210. The effect of Ring2 knock down on cell growth was analyzed in accordance with standard methods Cao Zhang 2004 15 57 67 .

Results. Western blot analysis indicated that about 75 knock down was achieved at the protein level in both cell lines top panel compare lanes 1 and 2 with 5 . To evaluate the effect of Ring2 knock down on H2A ubiquitination in vivo western blot analysis was performed using a previously well characterized uH2A specific monoclonal antibody E6C5 Vassilev et al. 1995 108 Pt 3 1205 15 which can also recognize ubiquitinated H2A from . Results shown in indicated a roughly 75 decrease in the uH2A level in the knock down cells when compared with that of control knock down cells bottom panel compare lanes 1 and 2 with 5 . These data indicate that Ring2 is required for H2A ubiquitination in vivo. Similar to knock down of SUZ12 Cao Zhang 2004 15 57 67 an EED EZH2 HMTase component Ring2 knock down resulted in changes in cellular morphology and slower growth consistent with a role of Ring2 in regulating cellular differentiation and proliferation Voncken et al. 2003 100 2468 73 .

Methodology. To determine the functional relationship between dRing mediated H2A ubiquitination and Hox gene silencing analysis of the well characterized PcG target gene Ubx was conducted. Culture of SL2 cells and transfection with double stranded RNA chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP assays and RT PCR analysis of Ubx transcripts from SL2 cells were performed according to standard methods Wang et al. 2004 14 637 46 with the exception that ChIP assays were performed on cells harvested 72 hours following a single transfection with double stranded RNA. dRing double stranded RNA including exonic sequences extending from 167 to 1154 bp downstream of the ATG was synthesized by bi directional transcription of RT PCR products containing T7 promoter sequences at both ends. Isolation of wing imaginal discs and ChIP assays were performed using established methods Wang et al. 2004 14 637 46 .

Ubiquitinated histone from SL2 cells was extracted according to established methods with minor modifications Levinger Varshavsky 1982 28 375 85 . Briefly 50 mL of SL2 cells 6 8 10cells mL was collected and lysed in 5 mL buffer A 0.25 M sucrose 10 mM sodium HEPES pH 7.5 3 mM CaCl 10 mM NaCl 1 mM PMSF 1 mM DTT 0.25 NONIDET 40 on ice for 30 minutes. The lysate was then centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 10 minutes to pellet the nuclei. The nuclei were then washed with buffer A one more time before being suspended in 800 L buffer B 0.25 M sucrose 10 mM sodium HEPES pH 7.5 3 mM CaCl 10 mM NaCl 1 mM PMSF 1 mM DTT . HCl 2 N was then added to a final concentration of 0.2 N. The suspension was extracted at 4 C. overnight and was then centrifuged for 10 minutes at 13 000 rpm. The supernatant was mixed with equal volume of 50 TCA and kept on ice for 1 hour. The precipitated proteins were collected and washed with acetone. Proteins were then dissolved in SDS loading buffer and analyzed by western blot .

Results. Silencing of Ubx transcription in wing imaginal discs requires both the ESC E Z and PRC1 complexes in addition to the major PRE Polycomb response element within the bxd regulatory region PRE to which the two complexes bind. Having demonstrated the specificity of the E6C5 monoclonal anti uH2A antibody for 2A ChIP assays of wing imaginal discs cells were performed which revealed co localization of dRing and ubiquitinated H2A at PREand immediately downstream of the Ubx transcription start site sites at which E Z and PC another PRC1 core component previously have been shown to be located Cao et al. 2002 298 1039 43 Wang et al. 2004 14 637 46 . Homozygous Sce dRing mutants die early in development precluding ChIP analysis of mutant wing imaginal discs Fritsch et al. 2003 120 949 54 . Therefore dependence of H2A ubiquitination at PREon dRing was tested using SL2 tissue culture cells. Previous studies have shown that PC E Z and E Z dependent H3 K27 methylation co localize at the PREregion in SL2 cells Cao et al. 2002 298 1039 43 Wang et al. 2004 14 637 46 . As in wing imaginal discs dRing and ubiquitinated H2A also co localized at PRE . Depletion of dRing by RNAi resulted in a loss of ubiquitinated H2A as well as PC from the PRE right panels . E Z dependent trimethylation on H3 K27 was not affected right panels . Loss of dRing PC and uH2A was accompanied by derepression of Ubx gene expression similar to that previously observed upon RNAi mediated depletion of PC Wang et al. 2004 14 637 46 . Because the PRC1 complex appears to be lost along with dRing the roles of H2A ubiquitination and other potential functions of the PRC1 complex in Ubx repression could not be distinguished. However somatic clones that are homozygous for the Sceallele which contain the Arg65Cys substitution within the ring domain exhibit Ubx derepression in wing imaginal discs Fritsch et al. 2003 120 949 54 . Together with the fact that the Arg65Cys mutation abolishes dRing ubiquitin ligase activity these observations collectively indicate that dRing mediated H2A ubiquitination plays an important role in Ubx gene silencing.

Studies were carried out to evaluate protein protein interactions among components of the PRC1 complex. shows the results of GST pull down assays using equal amounts of GST fusion proteins and in vitro translated S labeled proteins indicated on right. In represents 10 of the total Input. is a schematic representation of the interactions detected in . Bmi1 is the core component to bring others together to form the complex. This study demonstrates that Ring1A i.e. Ring1 and Ring1B i.e. Ring2 do not interact each other but can form a complex through association with Bmi1.

Experiments were performed to reconstitute the four component PRC1 complex. is a schematic representation of the steps involved in PRC1 reconstitution. shows silver staining of a polyacrylamide SDS gel top panel and ubiquitin ligase activity assay bottom panel of the fractions derived from the S6 gel filtration column. The positions of the protein size markers are indicated to the left of the panel. The four components of the recombinant PRC1 complex are indicated by . Consistent with the interaction study the four components can form a stable and very active complex.

Studies were also performed to characterize the individual components in the PRC1 complex. Bmi1 can stimulate the ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro. shows silver staining of a polyacrylamide SDS gel of Flag Ring1B alone lane 1 3 and F Ring1B Bmi1 sub complex lane 4 5 in top panel. The amount of F Ring1B has been further verified by western blot using anti Flag antibody middle panel . The data in demonstrates that Ring1A can also stimulate the ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro. The 2 component complex of F Ring1B Bmi1 lane 1 4 has been compared to 3 component complex of Ring1B F Bmi1 Ring1A lane 5 6 . The amount of Ring1B has been verified by western blot using anti Ring1B antibody top panel . The ubiquitinated H2A was detected by western blot with an anti Flag antibody bottom panel .

Bmi1 and Ring1A are both important for H2A ubiquitination in vivo and knock out of individual components results in derepression of several Hox genes. shows Western blot analysis of ubiquitinated H2A extracted from wild type and Ring1A knock out MEF cells with an antibody specific for ubiquitinated H2A. Equal loading was confirmed by western blot using anti H3 and anti tubulin antibodies. shows Western blot analysis of ubiquitinated H2A extracted from wild type and Bmi1 knock out MEF cells with antibody specific for ubiquitinated H2A. Equal loading was confirmed by western blot using anti H3 and anti tubulin antibodies. shows RT PCR analysis of Hox genes expression in Ring1A knock out and wild type MEF cells. GAPDH was used as a control. For each gene RT serves as control to exclude the genomic DNA amplification. HoxA7 shows no change while C12 A13 and Meis1 show increased expression in Ring1A cells.

Ring1B cDNA was PCR amplified from I.M.A.G.E cDNA clone 4021046 and inserted into BamHI and HindIII sites of a pFASTBAC GIBCO BRL vector with or without a N terminal FLAG tag. Pc3 cDNA was amplified from I.M.A.G.E cDNA clone 4456896 and inserted into HindIII and Ncol sites of pFASTBAC GIBCO BRL without FLAG . Ph2 cDNA was amplified from I.M.A.G.E cDNA clone 6410302 and inserted into BamHI and HindIII sites of pFASTBAC GIBCO BRL without FLAG . All the sequences have been verified by DNA sequencing. Baculovirus expression vectors for Bmi 1 Mel 18 and Ring1A were provided by Dr. Kingston and were previously described Lavigne et al. 2004 13 415 425 . All the baculoviruses were generated and amplified following the manufacturer s protocol. To purify the recombinant PRC1 complex and sub complexes different baculoviruses were used to co infect SF9 cells. After two days of infection cells were collected and resuspended in F lysis buffer 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 500 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.4 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT 20 glycerol 0.1 NP40 with proteinase inhibitors. Then cells were homogenized with pestle A three times 10 strokes each in a period of 30 minutes. The supernatant was recovered by centrifuging at 11 000 rpm for 10 minutes. The supernatant was adjusted to 300 mM NaCl by adding Dilution buffer 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 10 glycerol then incubated with the M2 FLAG agarose Sigma St. Louis Mo. equilibrated with F lysis buffer for 4 hours at 4 C. After washing with F washing buffer 20 mM Tris pH 7.9 150 mM NaCl 2 mM MgCl 0.2 mM EDTA 1 mM DTT 15 glycerol 0.01 NP40 until no protein came out bound proteins were eluted with 0.2 mg ml FLAG peptide DYKDDDDK SEQ ID NO 5 in F washing buffer for 20 minutes each time at room temperature. The eluted complexes were further purified through a gel filtration SEPHADEX 200 or SUPEROSE 6 column.

Oligonucleosomes 5 g were incubated with 30 L protein fractions or recombinant proteins in a 40 L reaction containing 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 5 mM MgCl 2 mM NaF 0.6 mM DTT 2 mM ATP 10 M Okada acid 0.1 g ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 Calbiochem 0.6 g ubiquitin conjugating enzyme Ubc5c 1 g FLAG ubiquitin Sigma St. Louis Mo. . After incubation at 37 C for 1 hour the reaction was terminated by the addition of SDS PAGE loading buffer. The proteins were resolved in 8 15 SDS PAGE and blotted with anti FLAG antibody. To evaluate H2A ubiquitylation in vivo cells were collected from a 100 mm plate washed with cold PBS twice and then suspended in 200 L PBS with 0.2 N HCl. The suspension was kept on ice for 30 minutes and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 13 000 rpm. The extracted supernatant was mixed with 200 L 25 TCA and kept on ice for another 10 minutes. The precipitated proteins were collected by centrifugation and washed by acetone. After air drying proteins were dissolved in 1 SDS loading buffer and analyzed by western blotting. Antibodies against uH2A tubulin and Bmi 1 were purchased from Upstate and Sigma. Antibodies against Ring1A Ring1B SUZ12 and trimethyl H3 K27 have been previously described Example 4 Cao and Zhang 2004 15 57 67 . Antibodies against H3 were kindly provided by Dr. Verrault.

Full length cDNAs for Ring1B Ring1A Bmi 1 Pc3 and Ph2 were inserted into pCITE vector for in vitro translation using the rabbit reticulocyte lysate kit according to the manufacturer s instructions PROMEGA Madison Wis. . Full length cDNAs for Ring1B Ring1A Bmi 1 Pc3 and Ph2 were also cloned into pGEX KG vector for the production of GST fusion proteins. About 3 g of GST or GST fusion proteins were bound to 10 L of glutathione immobilized agarose beads Sigma and incubated with in vitro translated products in 500 L buffer A 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 0.5 mM EDTA 1 mM dithiothreitol 0.2 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride 10 glycerol containing 150 mM KCl and 0.05 NP 40. After incubation at 4 C. for 2 hours the beads were washed three times with buffer A containing 300 mM KCl and 0.05 NP 40 and then washed once in buffer A containing 50 mM KCl before being subjected to SDS PAGE and autoradiogram.

Ring1A and MEFs were provided by Dr. Vidal and were previously described del Mar Lorente et al. 2000 127 5093 5100 . Immortalized Bmi 1 and MEFs were provided by Dr. Lohuizen. Total RNAs were isolated from both and MEFs using RNEASY QIAGEN Vilencia Calif. and treated with RNase free DNase I PROMEGA . For each sample 1 g RNA was used for a 20 L reverse transcription reaction using IMPROM II PROMEGA . For Hox gene expression analysis 1 L cDNA was used as template for PCR. For control 1 20 L of cDNA was used for GAPDH amplification. The primer sequences for all the Hox genes and GAPDH are available in Table 1.

For ChIP assays approximately 5 10HeLa cells or 2 10MEF cells in 150 mm dishes were treated with DMEM containing 1 formaldehyde for 10 minutes at room temperature. The cross linking was stopped by the addition of 125 mM glycine and incubation for 10 minutes. After washing twice with PBS the cells were resuspended in 300 L of cell lysis buffer 10 mM HEPES pH 7.9 0.5 NP 40 1.5 mM MgCl 10 mM KCl 0.5 mM DTT by pipetting and kept on ice for 10 minutes. After centrifugation at 4 000 rpm for 5 minutes the cell pellets were resuspended in nuclear lysis buffer 20 mM HEPES pH 7.9 25 glycerol 0.5 NP 40 0.42 M NaCl 1.5 mM MgCl 0.2 mM EDTA containing protease inhibitors to extract nuclear proteins at 4 C. for 20 minutes. Then the chromatin was sonicated into fragments with an average length of 0.5 3 kb. After centrifugation at 13 000 rpm for 10 minutes the supernatants were diluted in equal volume of dilution buffer containing 1 TRITON X 100 2 mM EDTA 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.9 50 mM NaCl and protease inhibitors. The extracts were pre cleaned by incubating with 60 L Protein A SEPHAROSE beads for at least one hour. ChIP assays were then performed with indicated antibodies as previously described Cao and Zhang 2004 15 57 67 . ChIP DNA was detected by standard PCR using PLATINUM Taq polymerase INVITROGEN . The primer pairs covering the mouse HoxC13 genome locus are designed by Array Designer from Premierbiosoft and available in Table 2. The following primer pairs are for the two regions of the human HOXC13 A TGC AGC GGA GCG AGC CCC SEQ ID NO 6 and TCA ACA GGG ATG AGC GCG TCG TG SEQ ID NO 7 B GGA TTC CGG TCT AGG GAG TC SEQ ID NO 8 and CAG CCA ATA CAG GGT AGG TGA SEQ ID NO 9 .

As described above a multi subunit PRC1 like complex from HeLa cells has been purified that possesses H2A K119 ubiquitin E3 ligase activity. Components of the complex include three ring domain containing proteins Ring2 Ring1B Ring1 Ring1A and BMI 1 Bmi 1 in addition to hPH2 and PC3 present in some batches of purification . Analysis of the three ring domain containing proteins indicated that Ring2 Ring1B is the catalytic subunit. To dissect the function of individual subunits and to obtain large amounts of purified enzyme complex for detailed functional analysis an attempt was made to reconstitute the enzymatic activity using recombinant proteins encoded by mouse cDNAs. To this end Sf9 cells were co infected with baculoviruses expressing FLAG Bmi 1 Ring1A Ring1B and Pc3. FLAG Bmi 1 and associated proteins were purified by affinity chromatography followed by gel filtration to separate the four component complex from free FLAG Bmi 1 and partial complex . Silver staining and ubiquitin E3 ligase assays of the gel filtration column fractions indicate that the four component complex co purified with the enzymatic activity as a protein complex of about 250 kDa . It should be noted that under these purification conditions Ph2 appears to be easily dissociated from the four component complex in a gel filtration column when it is co expressed with other components data not shown . Therefore a stable five component protein complex was not formed under these purification conditions.

To determine whether other components of the complex contribute to the enzymatic activity of Ring1B FLAG Ring1B was purified from infected Sf9 cells and its E3 ligase activity compared with GST Ring1B expressed in and the four component complex described above. Results shown in indicate that FLAG Ring1B is an active ubiquitin E3 ligase for H2A compare lanes 2 and 3 and its activity is comparable with that of GST Ring1B compare lanes 1 and 2 . Surprisingly the four component complex is significantly more active as much less enzyme is required to achieve a similar level of H2A ubiquitylation compare lanes 2 and 4 . It is estimated that an equal molar amount of Ring1B in the complex is about 200 fold more active than Ring1B alone date not shown . These results indicate that one or more than one of the other three subunits in the complex can stimulate the E3 ligase activity of Ring1B.

Of the five components present in the PRC1 complex Ring1B is the only subunit demonstrated to have E3 ligase activity by itself Example 4 . To address the effect of other subunits on Ring1B enzymatic activity an attempt was made to reconstitute Ring1B containing subcomplexes. Toward this end the precise spatial relationship among components of the complex were first defined using GST full down assays. Individual components were expressed as GST fusion proteins and equal amounts of the fusion proteins as well as GST alone last panel were immobilized onto beads and incubated with S labeled proteins. After washing and electrophoresis the pair wise protein protein interactions were revealed by fluorography. Results shown in indicate that Ring1B can interact with Bmi 1 Pc3 and Ph2 second panel . Similar interaction patterns were also observed for Ring1A first panel consistent with the high similarity of the two proteins. Interestingly Bmi 1 appears to be capable of interacting with each of the components fourth panel indicating that Bmi 1 could be an essential component for maintaining the complex integrity. Both Pc3 and Ph2 appear to be capable of interacting with all the three ring domain containing proteins but they do not seem to interact with each other panels 3 and 5 . This pair wise interaction data is best summarized in which shows Ring1B making multiple contacts with other components and occupying a central position in this complex.

After defining the spatial relationship among the five components a similar two step purification procedure was used to reconstitute Ring1B containing subcomplexes with 2 FLAG Ring1B and Bmi 1 3 Ring1B FLAG Bmi 1 and Ring1A and 4 Ring1B FLAG Bmi 1 Ring1A and Pc3 subunits. Silver staining revealed that these reconstituted sub complexes are near homogeneity . To evaluate the relative activities of these purified complexes various amounts of the different subcomplexes as indicated by western blot analysis of Ring1B top panel were used to ubiquitylate equal amounts of nucleosomal substrates. Results shown in bottom panel indicate that association of Bmi 1 with Ring1B stimulated its E3 ligase activity compare lanes 1 and 2 . However the enzymatic activity of the two component complex is apparently not comparable to that of the four component complex compare lanes 4 and 6 . Incorporation of Ring1A into the two component subcomplex F Ring1B Bmi 1 also stimulated the ubiquitin ligase activity compare lanes 3 and 6 . These data indicate that Bmi 1 Ring1A and Pc3 all contribute to optimal activity of Ring1B in vitro.

To substantiate the above observations in vivo the availability of the Bmi 1 and Ring1A null mouse embryonic fibroblast MEF cells was used to advantage and the effects of knockout of these two genes on the level of H2A ubiquitylation was analyzed. Equal amounts of histone extracts prepared from wild type and Bmi 1 or Ring1A knockout MEFs were subjected to western blot analysis using antibodies specific for ubiquitinated H2A. Results shown in indicate that knockout of either of the two genes greatly reduced the H2A ubiquitylation level. Together these data indicate that Bmi 1 and Ring1A contribute to H2A ubiquitylation in vivo.

Having demonstrated that knockout of Ring1A and Bmi 1 results in a significant decrease in the H2A ubiquitylation level their role in Hox gene expression was investigated. Previous studies in mice indicate that loss of Ring1A and Bmi 1 function resulted in anterior and posterior transformations respectively del Mar Lorente et al. 2000 127 5093 5100 van der Lugt et al. 1996 8 757 769 . Analysis of the expression patterns of selected Hox genes by RNA in situ hybridization revealed a shift in their expression boundaries. The shift is subtle in Ring1A mice while the shift is more significant in Bmi 1 mice del Mar Lorente et al. 2000 127 5093 5100 van der Lugt et al. 1996 8 757 769 . These studies however did not analyze changes in levels of Hox gene expression. To analyze the potential effects of Ring1A and Bmi 1 knockout on Hox gene expression levels expression of 33 out of the 39 Hox genes was analyzed by RT PCR using RNAs isolated from MEFs of wild type and mutant littermates as templates. It is not clear whether failure of amplifying the other six Hox genes is due to a low expression level of these Hox genes or to primer problems. Results shown in indicate that Ring1A knockout only modestly affected HoxC13 HoxD3 and HoxD10 expression. In contrast to the subtle changes in the Ring1A knockout knockout of Bmi 1 resulted in significant changes in the expression of most of the Hox genes . Of the 33 Hox genes analyzed 12 underlined are significantly upregulated and 13 indicated by a are significantly down regulated. It is interesting to note that most late Hox genes are up regulated while most early Hox genes are down regulated. Given that the PcG proteins are believed to be involved in gene silencing down regulation in response to loss of Bmi 1 function might not represent a direct effect. Therefore further analysis has focused on up regulated genes particularly HoxC13 because up regulation of this gene was observed in MEFs of both Bmi 1 and Ring1A knockouts.

To understand the relationship between Bmi 1 H2A ubiquitylation and HoxC13 derepression Bmi 1 binding across the entire HoxC13 gene locus was first evaluated by chromatin immunoprecipitation ChIP assays. Results shown in indicate that Bmi 1 is highly enriched in a 500 bp region that encompasses the transcription start site. The observed binding is specific as a similar signal is not observed in a parallel ChIP experiment using the Bmi 1 cells. Since Bmi 1 is part of the PRC1 H2A ubiquitin E3 ligase complex and PRC1 functions together with the EZH2 H3 K27 methyltransferase complex in Hox gene silencing Ringrose and Paro 2004 38 413 443 the presence in this region of other PcG proteins belonging to the two protein complexes as well as H3 K27 methylation and H2A ubiquitylation was analyzed. It was found that all the components of the two complexes analyzed are present region A . Consistent with the two protein complexes respectively mediating H3 K27 methylation and H2A ubiquitylation both histone modifications are observed in the region. Protein binding and histone modifications are restricted to the promoter region as a parallel analysis of a region in the intron between exon1 and exon2 did not detect their presence region B . Consistent with an important role for Bmi 1 in H2A ubiquitylation knockout of Bmi 1 resulted in significant decrease of H2A ubiquitylation in the promoter region lane 7 . Interestingly loss of Bmi 1 binding or H2A ubiquitylation does not affect the binding of Suz12 a component of the Ezh2 complex or H3 K27 methylation lanes 6 and 8 . This is consistent with the notion that PRC1 recruitment and H2A ubiquitylation are downstream events of Ezh2 mediated H3 K27 methylation. Collectively the above results support a critical role for Bmi 1 in H2A ubiquitylation and Hox gene silencing.

It is interesting to note that both Ring1A and Ring1B are present in the promoter region in the absence of Bmi 1 lanes 3 and 5 left panels . This appears to be inconsistent with the finding that Bmi 1 mediates Ring1A and Ring1B interactions . To determine whether knockout of Bmi 1 affects the integrity of the PRC1 complex the elution profile of the PRC1 components over a gel filtration column using protein extracts derived from wild type and Bmi 1 MEFs were compared. Results shown in indicate that the Ring1A and Ring1B elution profile is not altered by Bmi 1 knockout indicating that the integrity of the PRC1 complex is not affected by loss of Bmi 1. One possible explanation is that Mel 18 a protein that is 70 identical to Bmi 1 may replace Bmi 1 to maintain complex integrity. To address this possibility directly Sf9 cells were co infected with baculoviruses that express Ring1A Ring1B Pc3 and Flag Mel 18. After affinity purification using FLAG antibody coated beads the bound proteins were eluted and separated on a gel filtration column. Results shown in indicate that Mel 18 co purified with the other components as a protein complex.

Having demonstrated that Mel 18 can replace Bmi 1 in forming the PRC1 complex the question arose whether the Mel 18 containing complex is functionally similar to the Bmi 1 containing complex with regard to H2A ubiquitylation. After quantifying the two protein complexes through western analysis of the Ring1B component their E3 ligase activities were directly compared. Results shown in indicate that the Bmi 1 containing complex is significantly more active than the Mel 18 containing complex compare lanes 4 and 5 . To further evaluate the capability of Bmi 1 and Mel 18 to stimulate Ring1B E3 ligase activity Ring1B alone and Ring1B in complex with Bmi 1 or Mel 18 from infected insect cells were purified and their E3 ligase activity directly compared. Results shown in demonstrate that Bmi 1 greatly stimulated the Ring1B E3 ligase activity while Mel 18 does not have a detectable effect compare lanes 2 and 6 . These results collectively support that Mel 18 can be incorporated into the PRC1 complex like Bmi 1 but it has little effect on the E3 ligase activity of Ring1B. These results further support a non redundant function for Bmi 1 and Mel 18 and are consistent with the fact that Bmi 1 and Mel 18 knockout mice exhibited different phenotypes Akasaka et al. 1996 122 1513 1522 van der Lugt et al. 1994 8 757 769 .

Studies in have suggested a hierarchical PcG protein recruitment pathway in Ubx gene silencing Wang et al. 2004 14 637 646 . Data presented in is consistent with the notion that EZH2 mediated H3 K27 methylation precedes H2A ubiquitylation. To analyze the relationship between H3 K27 methylation and H2A K119 ubiquitylation further it was determined whether impaired H3 K27 methylation affects PRC1 recruitment and H2A ubiquitylation. It was previously demonstrated that SUZ12 knockdown resulted in reduced H3 K27 methylation and HoxA9 upregulation Cao and Zhang 2004 15 47 67 . Analysis of the same SUZ12 knockdown cell line indicated that HOXC13 is also upregulated when compared with the mock knockdown . Thus binding of SUZ12 and two different components of the PRC1 complex Bmi 1 and Ring1A were analyzed. In addition H3 K27 methylation and H2A ubiquitylation in the promoter and intron of the corresponding regions analyzed in were also analyzed. Results shown in indicated enrichment of SUZ12 BMI 1 RING1 and the corresponding histone modifications in the promoter region region A but not in the intron region B . However knockdown of SUZ12 not only affected H3 K27 methylation lane 6 but also affected BMI 1 and RING1 binding and consequently H2A ubiquitylation lanes 4 5 and 7 . This data is consistent with the notion that H3 K27 methylation provides a binding site for Pc Fischle et al. 2003 17 1870 1881 Min et al. 2003 17 1823 1828 and thus contributes to PRC1 recruitment and H2A ubiquitylation. Collectively the above results indicate that the sequential PcG protein recruitment model demonstrated in Wang et al. 2004 14 637 646 is also conserved in mammals.

The inventors have further discovered that Bmi 1 has E3 ligase activity. E3 ligase activity was observed for recombinant mouse Bmi 1 produced in Sf9 cells but not which raised the possibility that a post translational modification s is required for E3 ligase activity. The inventors have now determined by mass spectrometry that recombinant mouse Bmi 1 made in Sf9 cells is methylated on K88 and K92. Consistent with methylation of these residues being important for enzymatic activity mutation of K88 and K92 abrogated the E3 ligase activity of a recombinant Bmi 1 with mutations at K88 and K92.

The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention and is not to be construed as limiting thereof. The invention is defined by the following claims with equivalents of the claims to be included therein.

