---

title: Hybrid composite welded joint
abstract: The present invention's composite-to-metal attachment methodology—bolt-free and adhesive-free—features the implementation of an intermediary structure containing metallic fibrous material. The intermediary structure couples a first adherend (which contains nonmetallic fibrous material) with a second adherend (which contains metallic nonfibrous material). The intermediary structure's fibrous attribute is availed of for effecting its co-cure attachment to the first adherend. The intermediary structure's metallic attribute is availed of for effecting its weld attachment to the second adherend. According to typical inventive practice, respective panels of the first adherend and the intermediary structure are arranged and connected so as to describe a stepped configuration at the interface between the first adherend and the intermediary structure. The first adherend and a first portion of the intermediary structure are co-impregnated with a uniform resinous system and are co-cured. A second portion of the intermediary structure is welded with respect to the second adherend.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07959058&OS=07959058&RS=07959058
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07959058
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060113
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 643 169 filed 13 Jan. 2005 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Hybrid Joint joint inventors Roger M. Crane Robert DeNale Harry E. Prince and Timothy L. Dapp.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to composites and composite materials more particularly to methods and configurations for joining composite structures to other composite structures or to non composite structures.

Many structural applications require the joining of composites to composites or composites to metals. These kinds of joints are often technologically challenging. Conventional approaches to joining composites with other composites or with metals include mechanical fastening e.g. bolting adhesive bonding co curing and secondary bonding. A common design for mechanical fastening is a lap joint which is typically formed by overlapping two panels then match drilling holes in the two panels and then inserting bolts to fasten together the two panels. A common design for adhesive bonding is a scarf joint which is typically formed by matching the respective tapered edges of two panels and applying an adhesive material so as to achieve a uniform thickness joint having an adhesive bond line between the two matched tapered edges. Scarf joints also lend themselves to co curing or secondary bonding either of which obviates the need for adhesive bonding. According to typical co curing technique a joint involving two uncured panels is laid up and cured in one step. According to typical secondary bonding technique an uncured panel is laid onto a previously cured panel and attached thereto via a second cure.

The aerospace industry has considerable experience with fabrication of composite to metal joints. In aerospace structure technology mechanical fastening and adhesive bonding are the two most popular approaches to joining composite materials with metal materials. Prevalent in aerospace applications is a bolted bonded configuration in which mechanical fastening and adhesive bonding are combined to create redundant load paths in a structure. Bolted bonded configurations are also seen in marine applications involving the joining of composite components to metallic structures however adhesives are susceptible to degradation in aqueous environments. An adhesive bond entails not one but two interfaces that are prone to disbonding namely the respective interfaces between the adhesive layer and the two adherends. Therefore regardless of whether it is used alone or in combination with mechanical fastening adhesive bonding is viewed much less favorably in the marine realm than it is in the aerospace realm. Moreover for many marine structures the sizes and shapes of the structural sub assemblies prohibit the use of either co curing or secondary bonding as a joining technique. Accordingly mechanical fastening e.g. bolted joints has been widespread in the marine industry as an exclusive joining technique.

Mechanical fastening can be utilized to great benefit but has several drawbacks. Since composites tend to be sensitive to damage under high bearing pressures a lap joint must be carefully designed in order to carry the intended loads without accumulating damage in the vicinity of the bolt holes in the composite. Commentators have cautioned that maintaining close fit up between the holes and the bolts and between the members being joined is important for maximizing fatigue performance. Some composites also exhibit low temperature creep that leads to loss of preload in the bolts and accelerates damage a proclivity that may necessitate regular maintenance of the bolted joints to maintain preload. The advantageousness of composites in terms of weight savings may be vitiated by bolted joints because of the weight of the bolts and because the composite panel thickness is often increased in the vicinities of the bolted joints to decrease the bearing stresses in the composite.

Bolted lap joints may be impractical for outer hull applications where hydrodynamics or aerodynamics is a consideration because a simple lap joint entails at least one step where the lapped panels overlap on the hull structure s surface. Although bolted flange joints can be used for attachment of hull sections these are significantly heavier than bolted lap joints. A tapered lap joint configuration in which the panels of a lap joint are tapered on the edges can be adopted so as to ameliorate the negative effects of the overlaps on the hull structure s hydrodynamic or aerodynamic characteristics. As distinguished from a tapered lap joint the above mentioned scarf joint matches interfaces the tapered edges of panels so as to achieve a uniform thickness joint typically adhesive bonding is implemented where the respective tapered edge surfaces of the panels are matched up. A scarf joint if properly designed can achieve a uniform shear stress in the bond line thus representing a highly efficient joint. Theoretically at least the potential efficiency of an adhesive joint is superior to that of a mechanical joint since an adhesive joint is theoretically capable of achieving one hundred percent of the laminate strength. Nevertheless as previously noted herein marine use of adhesive bonding can be problematical due to the tendency of adhesive materials to degrade in aqueous environments.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a improved methodology for joining a nonmetallic composite e.g. fiber reinforced matrix structure and a metallic non composite e.g. monolithic structure.

The United States Navy utilizes various nonmetallic composite structures typically lightweight on the decks of naval ships. Heretofore the most commonly practiced approach to attaching a composite structure to a naval vessel surface has combined extensive mechanical bolting with adhesive bonding. Some combined mechanical adhesive approaches for instance have involving lap joint attachment between overlapping panels. The present invention succeeds in effecting attachment of composite structures to a metallic substrate such as the steel deck of a marine vessel in such a way as to avoid both mechanical fastening and its associated shortcomings including deterioration of the bolting through holes in the composite loss of preload in the bolts excessive weight of the bolts compromise of hydrodynamic or aerodynamic properties etc. and adhesive bonding and its associated shortcomings including susceptibility to damage caused by an aqueous environment susceptibility to disbonding etc. . The present invention s novel attachment methodology is lighter less extensive less cumbersome less costly and less vulnerable to environmental and other deleterious influences than are the currently known attachment methodologies involving combination of bolting and adhering.

Noteworthy is a family of high strength steel fiber reinforcement products known as HARDWIRE commercially available manufactured by Hardwire LLC 1000 Quinn Avenue Pocomoke City Md. 21851 website http www.hardwirellc.com. Especially useful for inventive practice are the HARDWIRE unidirectional high strength steel wire fiber tapes such as those available in twelve inch widths. Tests performed at the Naval Surface Warfare Center Carderock Division NSWCCD have demonstrated HARDWIRE to be easily processed and to have significant mechanical properties. NSWCCD investigators have shown that steel fiber reinforcement composite panels can be manufactured using HARDWIRE unidirectional steel fiber tapes via a vacuum assisted resin transfer molding VARTM process. Available online beginning on or about 1 Mar. 2004 at the Hardwire LLC website http www.hardwirellc.com is the following unpublished U.S. Navy technical report incorporated herein by reference which examines some material properties of certain specimens made using HARDWIRE Robert Matteson and Roger M. Crane Flexural Testing of Steel Wire Composite Beams Made with Hardwire Unidirectional Tape NSWCCD 65 TR 2003 48 Naval Surface Warfare Center Carderock Division face dated November 2003 but never published. In providing its unique composite to metal joint technology the present invention brings to bear resin transfer molding RTM technology such as in a form of VARTM processing that is analogous to previously demonstrated VARTM processing of HARDWIRE unidirectional steel fiber tapes. HARDWIRE represents one product line that can be utilized propitiously in practicing the present invention nevertheless the ordinarily skilled artisan who reads the instant disclosure will appreciate that multifarious metallic fiber reinforcement articles other than HARDWIRE articles lend themselves to inventive practice.

In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention a method is provided for effecting attachment between a first structure and a second structure. The first structure includes nonmetallic fibrous material. The second structure includes metallic material. The method comprises a effecting a co cure joint between the first structure and a first portion of an intermediate structure and b effecting a weld joint between the second structure and a second portion of the intermediate structure. The intermediate structure includes metallic fibrous material. According to many inventive embodiments the effecting of a co cure joint between the first structure and the first portion of the intermediate structure includes i adjoining the first structure and the first portion of the intermediate structure ii impregnating with resin the first structure and the first portion of the intermediate structure and iii curing the first structure and the first portion of the intermediate structure. According to many inventive embodiments the effecting of a weld joint between the second structure and the second portion of the intermediate structure includes i welding two metallic plates on opposite sides of the second portion of the intermediate structure and ii welding the second structure and the combination including the two metallic plates and the second portion of the intermediate structure.

Featured by typical embodiments of the present invention is the implementation of a metallic fibrous preform material such as embodied by preform panels made from HARDWIRE unidirectional steel fiber tapes as a transitional material for coupling a nonmetallic fibrous preform material such as embodied by preform panels made from conventional E glass woven roving or another glass fabric material with a metallic nonfibrous material typically a primary structural monolithic material such as embodied by the metallic deck or portion thereof of a ship or other marine vessel . Two different joints viz. a co cure joint and a weld joint are created at different locations e.g. on opposite sides of the metallic fibrous material so as to transition the nonmetallic fibrous material into the metallic nonfibrous material. The metallic fibrous material represents the transitional structure. The co cure joint is created between the nonmetallic fibrous material and a first part of the metallic fibrous material. The weld joint is created between the metallic nonfibrous material and a second separate part of the metallic fibrous material. The fibrous structural characteristic shared by the nonmetallic fibrous material and the metallic fibrous material fosters their co cure joining. The metallic structural characteristic shared by the nonmetallic fibrous material and the metallic nonfibrous material fosters their weld joining. The terms metal and metallic as used herein refer in the broadest sense to any material including metal such as an elemental metal material or an alloy material.

According to typical inventive practice plural nonmetallic fiber reinforcement preform panels are stacked so as to overlap one another similarly plural metallic fiber reinforcement preform panels are stacked so as to overlap one other. Since generally the metallic fiber reinforcement preform panels should be appropriately dimensioned for participation in a co cure bond in one section thereof and a weld joint in another section thereof inventive practice will sometimes prefer to provide such panels that are elongated. The interlocking junction between the two fibrous stacks along their staggered edges describes a stepped stepped lap configuration. The two adjoining fibrous stacks one nonmetallic the other metallic of preform material are co impregnated i.e. jointly impregnated e.g. infiltrated or infused in a single step with a single resin system e.g. a vinyl ester resin so that an exposed section of the metallic fibrous e.g. HARDWIRE steel wire stack is not impregnated with resin. The adjoining impregnated combination of panel preform stacks is co cured i.e. jointly cured in a single step this co curing excluding the uninfiltrated metallic fibrous section. The co cured combination of nonmetallic and metallic fibrous material represents a kind of hybrid fiber reinforced matrix material system in which a single resinous matrix system is used to infiltrate at least two different types of fiber reinforcement.

The uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section is capable of being welded to a separate metallic structure thereby uniting the separate metallic structure located at one end of the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section with the hybrid fiber reinforced matrix material system located at the opposite end of the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section in effect this uniting accomplishes the attachment of the nonmetallic fibrous material now infiltrated with resin with respect to the separate metallic structure. According to frequent inventive practice auxiliary metallic structure is welded to at least a portion of the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section in order to facilitate weldability to another metallic structure especially a larger more structural body such as a steel ship deck . For instance the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section e.g. a planar section of a stacked panel assembly is welded on opposite sides to two metallic e.g. steel plates thereby forming a sandwich configuration of uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous material layer situated between two metallic plate layers. As an alternative approach according to some inventive embodiments at least a portion of the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section is welded on one side to one metallic e.g. steel baseplate. Thus enhanced by one or more metallic plates the uninfiltrated uncured metallic fibrous section or a portion thereof is especially capable of being attached by means of welding to a large metallic structure such as a steel ship deck.

The following paper incorporated herein by reference examines using numerical method such as finite element analysis stresses and strains associated with certain co cured stepped joint configurations representative of inventive practice wherein the two adherends of the co cure joint are fiber reinforced laminates of unequal stiffness and wherein a continuous matrix surrounds the fibers on both sides of the co cure joint Stephen M. Graham Stress Analysis of a Co Cured Innovative Hybrid Joint for Marine Composites SAMPE Society for the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering 2004 16 20 May 2004 Long Beach Calif. The stiffness mismatch between the fibrous non metallic material and the fibrous metallic material can pose a problem when these materials are co cured in accordance with the present invention. This mismatch can lead to strain localization which can cause matrix or fiber damage. As this area is loaded over time the damage can accumulate and cause eventual failure. As disclosed by Graham early analysis of the present invention s hybrid joint has shown that it can be designed to minimize the detrimental aspects of the stiffness mismatch. The following paper incorporated herein by reference examines tensile strengths associated with certain co cured stepped joint configurations representative of inventive practice Stephen M. Graham Tad Robbins and Roger M. Crane Influence of Joint Geometry on Tensile Strength of a Co Cured Symmetric Stepped Lap Joint SAMPE Society for the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering 2005 1 5 May 2005 Long Beach Calif.

A typical co cure joint in accordance with the present invention in which a non metal fiber material and a metal fiber material are joined together is stronger than a co cure joint in which two non metal fiber materials are joined together due to the markedly greater stiffness afforded by a metal fiber material as compared with a non metal fiber material. This superiority in joint strength is attributable at least in part to the bending of the combined structure in the direction of the metal fiber i.e. stiffer material which thus carries more of the load. Furthermore the inventive co cure joint will tend to be stronger than an adhesive joint since the inventive co cure joint involves no adhesive but rather involves a uniform matrix material the loading therefore being more uniform with fewer stress concentrations. Through proper tailoring of the two different fiber systems one metallic one nonmetallic that are joined via the present invention s co cure joint the present invention s hybrid composite configuration can be tailored to have a more efficient load transfer from the metal composite into the conventional composite with even further reduced stress concentrations. In inventive practice involving some marine deck applications for instance the present invention s metal fiber intermediary structure in acting as a transitional vehicle between a composite and a steel deck serves to reduce the stiffness mismatch between the composite and the steel deck. Since there is no fastening e.g. bolting or machining required the cost and weight of the present invention s co cure joint are significantly less than the cost and weight of a mechanical joint. The present invention s provision for welding to a metallic structure e.g. steel substructure will permit Page of conventional shipyard skills and practices to be used further reducing the cost of the joining process. The present invention s obviation of fasteners e.g. bolts will provide reduced life cycle costs since there is no need to check and re torque the fasteners e.g. bolts . Inventive practice can feature the hybridization within individual panels of high stiffness fiber along with conventional glass fiber wherein the two fiber types are embedded together in a matrix such as a vinyl ester. These hybridized panel forms can afford greater stiffness and lesser volume as compared with conventional composite cored construction.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to which depicts two nonmetallic fibrous preform panels viz. and and two metallic fibrous preform panels viz. and . The nonmetallic fiber panel preforms are composed for example of E glass woven roving. The metallic fiber panel preforms are composed for example of HARDWIRE unidirectional high strength steel wires. Panels and can be either single ply or multi ply. All four panel preforms and are characterized by the same width w and thickness t but vary in length l.

With reference to nonmetallic fiber panel performs and are stacked so as to be even at their lefthand edges and to be overlapping at their righthand edges. Similarly metallic fiber panel preforms and are stacked so as to be even at their righthand edges and to be overlapping at their lefthand edges. The pair of overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and at their staggered righthand edges are adjoined with the pair of overlapping metallic fiber panel preforms and at their staggered lefthand edges . The adjunction between the two overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and and the two overlapping metallic fiber panel preforms and describes a stepped interface a two step double step configuration of uniform thickness. The term stepped configuration is used synonymously herein with the term stepped lap configuration. It can be considered that the two abutting overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and together form a combined nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and that the two abutting overlapping metallic fiber panel preforms together form a combined metallic fiber preform panel structure combined nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and combined metallic fiber preform panel structure together form an integral preform panel structure . Stepped interface is thus established between the combined nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and the combined metallic fiber preform panel structure .

Both the combined nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and the combined metallic fiber preform panel structure are composed essentially of dry fiber preform materials. Nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and portion which consists of abutting respective portions of metallic fiber panel preform and metallic fiber panel preform of metallic fiber preform panel structure are co impregnated e.g. co infused in a single impregnation step with a single resin system and are then co cured for instance using VARTM or another conventional RTM technique resulting in a continuous resinous matrix encompassing two distinct fiber forms namely the nonmetallic fibers of preform panel structure and the metallic fibers of portion of preform panel structure . No resin is permitted to flow into portion which consists of abutting respective portions of metallic fiber panel preform and metallic fiber panel preform of metallic fiber preform panel structure which defines a weld region W. RTM e.g. VARTM apparatus is diagrammatically shown as circumscribing nonmetallic preform panel structure and portion of preform panel structure the combination of which defines a co cure region C. The two overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and the two overlapping metallic fiber panel preforms are thus joined together via the impregnation in particular nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure formed by the two overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and and metallic fiber preform panel structure formed by the two overlapping nonmetallic fiber panel preforms and are joined together at stepped interface via the impregnation of resin and in the absence of any other bonding methodology such as involving adhesive material mechanical fastening or secondary bonding.

Referring to and fabricated via the above described co cure process is an integral hybrid composite panel that includes a nonmetallic fiber reinforced matrix section C a metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C and a bare metallic fiber section W. Co cure region C is commensurate with nonmetallic fiber reinforced matrix section C in combination with metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C i.e. portion . Weld region W is commensurate with bare metallic fiber section W i.e. portion . Via the impregnation and cure processing the unimpregnated and uncured stepped interface has become an impregnated and cured stepped interface characterized by a co cure joining of nonmetallic fiber preform panel structure and metallic fiber preform panel structure .

Reference is now made to and . The bare metallic fibrous e.g. HARDWIRE material is sandwiched between metallic e.g. steel plates and is then welded thereto to form a single metallic piece. This welded combination is then welded to the metallic substrate e.g. steel deck . and illustrate a welding process involving two approximately congruent sandwich plates that are each approximately coextensive with metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C. and illustrate a welding process involving two sandwich plates that are each significantly shorter than metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C roughly half the length of metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C as shown in and . As shown in and in the weld region W two metallic e.g. steel weld plates that are approximately coextensive with metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C are welded onto opposite sides faces of metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C which includes no resin and consists only of bare steel wire material. The bare steel wire material of metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C is sandwiched between the two plates and by means of known welding technique such as tungsten gas metal arc welding or friction stir welding thereby forming in weld region W a single or unified metallic material that includes the two metallic sandwich plates and the metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C.

Subsequently the welded combination of the two metallic sandwich plates and the metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C is welded to a metallic structure e.g. a steel marine deck using known welding technique e.g. tungsten gas metal arc welding or friction stir welding hence welded together in weld region W are the two metallic sandwich plates the metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C and at least a portion of the metallic structure . Thus accomplished in effect is the attachment of a nonmetallic fiber reinforced composite structure with respect to a metallic structure in the absence of adhesive bonding or mechanical fastening. The procedure depicted in and sequence parallels the procedure depicted in and sequence except that in the former drawing sequence the metallic sandwich plates are shown to cover only a portion of the metallic fiber reinforced matrix section C thus leaving an unwelded bare metallic fiber region U that lies adjacent to and between the co cure region C and the weld region W. Furthermore and depict weld attachment at a longitudinal end edge in weld region W of the integral hybrid composite panel so that the integral hybrid composite panel is situated normal perpendicular with respect to the metallic structure conversely and depict weld attachment at an appropriately adapted longitudinal end edge in weld region W of the integral hybrid composite panel so that the integral hybrid composite panel is situated oblique with respect to the metallic structure . The oblique end edge shown in can be engineered either subsequent to e.g. machined or during the fabrication of the integral hybrid composite panel .

Stepped interface shown in and other figures represents a simple case of a two step uniform thickness interface configuration. With reference to through diverse interface stepped configurations are possible in accordance with the present invention. depicts stepped interface an asymmetrical five step configuration. depicts stepped interface a symmetrical five step configuration. depicts scarfed interface an asymmetrical scarf joint like interface that is tantamount to an asymmetrical stepped interface having numerous or infinite steps. The ordinarily skilled artisan who reads the instant disclosure will recognize the variety of possibilities for inventive practice with regard to the joint configuration at the co cure interface between nonmetallic fibrous material and metallic fibrous material.

With reference to through in each of these figures an inventive hybrid composite panel has two extreme weld regions W and a co cure region C therebetween. In and the co cure region C of inventive panel in and inventive panel in is characterized by lateral symmetry described by two height wise asymmetrical step configurations . The laterally symmetrical dual step joint pattern is inverted in versus . In the co cure region C of inventive hybrid panel is characterized both by lateral symmetry and height wise symmetry. Note that in through the weld to a metallic structure is effected so that the bottom surface of bottom metallic plate abuts the top surface of metallic structure . Such embodiments may obviate the need for welding a top metallic plate onto the bare metallic fibrous material of the inventive hybrid panel. are not intended to portray preferred inventive embodiments but rather are intended to merely illustrate a few more of the multifarious configurational possibilities involving attachment of an inventive hybrid structure with respect to a metallic structure in accordance with the present invention.

Now referring to three different inventive hybrid panels viz. panels and are welded together end to end at their corresponding weld regions. Inventive panel has weld region Wa inventive panel has weld regions Wb and Wb inventive panel has weld region Wc. Weld region Wa of inventive panel is welded to weld region Wb of inventive panel weld region Wc of inventive panel is welded to weld region Wb of inventive panel . is diagrammatically representative of inventive embodiments in which two or more inventive hybrid structures are welded together at their respective bare metallic fibrous material sections. The present invention thus provides in addition to a unique composite to metal attachment methodology a unique composite to composite attachment methodology. is also illustrative of inventive practice in which an inventive hybrid panel includes in addition to at least one unimpregnated and uncured metallic fiber section plural impregnated and cured nonmetallic fiber sections and plural impregnated and cured metallic fiber sections wherein unlike material sections are alternately arranged. Some inventive hybrid panel embodiments are thus characterized by a propitious mix of lesser stiffness fiber reinforced composite wherein the fibers are nonmetallic along with greater stiffness fiber reinforced composite wherein the fibers are metallic . An inventive hybrid composite panel with such or similar inventive features can offer material and structural qualities in terms of both strength and lightness in weight.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

