---

title: Audio receiver design for a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments of an audio receiver design for a mobile computing device are described. The mobile computing device may comprise an audio receiver structured and arranged to port to the rear of the mobile computing device. In some embodiments, the mobile computing device may be implemented as a dual-mode Global System for Mobile Communications/Universal Mobile Telephone System (GSM/UMTS) quad-band device. The mobile computing device also may comprise a Global Positioning System (GPS) antenna for providing positioning determination capabilities and location-based services. In various implementations, the audio receiver may be ported to an in-vehicle system, such as an onboard entertainment system, navigation system, and/or communications system. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08255013&OS=08255013&RS=08255013
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08255013
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061218
---
This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 612 293 titled Internal Quad Band Architecture for a Mobile Computing device which is being filed concurrently herewith and is incorporated by reference.

A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. For voice and data communications the mobile computing device typically employs a radio transmitter receiver transceiver and one or more antennas. Antenna design for a mobile computing device is an important consideration and is often limited by strict performance constraints.

Some antenna placements may restrict where other components such as an audio receiver may be located within the mobile computing device resulting in an overall increase in the size and shape of the device. Such design considerations are extremely important and problematic for mobile computing devices with smaller form factors. Accordingly there exists the need for an improved audio receiver design for a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to an audio receiver design for a mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may comprise an audio receiver structured and arranged to port to the rear of the mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may be implemented as a dual mode Global System for Mobile Communications Universal Mobile Telephone System GSM UMTS quad band device. The mobile computing device also may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS antenna for providing positioning determination capabilities and location based services. In various implementations the audio receiver may be ported to an in vehicle system such as an onboard entertainment system navigation system and or communications system.

Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of suitable wireless device that is consistent with the described embodiments such as a mobile station portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communications device and so forth.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular systems. Examples of cellular systems may include GSM systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as UMTS Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide wireless wide area network WWAN data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular systems. Examples of cellular systems offering WWAN data communications services may include Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems CDMA 1xRTT systems GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS GSM GPRS systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA systems and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless local area network WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise an external housing and a PCB . The housing may comprise various materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass and so forth suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of the mobile computing device . The PCB may comprise materials such as FR4 Rogers R04003 and or Roger RT Duroid for example and may include one or more conductive traces via structures and or laminates. The PCB also may include a finish such as Gold Nickel Tin or Lead. In various implementations the PCB may be fabricated using processes such as etching bonding drilling and plating.

The mobile computing device may comprise a low profile small and compact device design. For example the size of the mobile computing device may be approximately 103.0 mm Length L 53.0 mm Width W 14.7 mm Thickness T or smaller. It can be appreciated that designing devices with such small form factors present major difficulties with respect to antenna and component layout.

The mobile computing device may comprise an audio receiver . As shown the audio receiver may be located substantially near the top of the mobile computing device in close proximity to a speaker . The audio receiver may comprise audio components such as for example a digital audio processor for converting and or modulating received audio data a digital amplifier for amplifying audio data from the digital audio processor and one or more filters for filtering output from the digital amplifier to provide an audio signal capable of reproduction by the speaker . In various implementations the audio receiver may be ported to an in vehicle system such an onboard entertainment system navigation system and or communications system. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

In one or more embodiments the audio receiver may be structured and arranged to port to the rear of the mobile computing device . For example the audio receiver may port or connect to the side of the PCB facing the back of the mobile computing device . As shown in for example the audio receiver may be arranged to port to the PCB and include a cut out through a portion of the housing at the top and back of the mobile computing device . As shown in for example the audio receiver may be arranged to port to the PCB and include a cut out through the PCB and a portion of the housing at the top and front of the mobile computing device . The audio receiver may be positioned between a rear portion of the housing and the PCB . By placing and porting the audio receiver to the back the size e.g. thickness of the mobile computing device may be reduced resulting in a more compact sleeker and or aesthetic device. In various implementations the audio receiver may be encapsulated in a protective rubber boot and may connect to the PCB through one or more spring contacts . It can be appreciated that other structural arrangements are possible consistent with the described embodiments.

In some embodiments the mobile computing device may be implemented as a dual mode device supporting communication over both a GSM network and a UMTS network. In general four frequency bands are used for GSM communication the 850 MHz frequency band the 900 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band and the 1900 MHz frequency band as defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI . The 2100 MHz frequency band may be used for UMTS communication.

The mobile computing device e.g. dual mode GSM UMTS device may be implemented as a multi band device supporting multiple frequency bands. In some embodiments for example the mobile computing device may be implemented as a quad band 850 1800 1900 2100 MHz device configured to operate in the 850 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band the 1900 MHz frequency band and the 2100 MHz frequency band. In some embodiments the mobile computing device may be implemented as a quad band 900 1800 1900 2100 MHz device configured to operate in the 900 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band the 1900 MHz frequency band and the 2100 MHz frequency band.

As shown in the mobile computing device may have an internal antenna architecture comprising a first internal antenna element and a second internal antenna element disposed on the PCB in a fixed position internal to the housing . The first internal antenna element may be located substantially near the top of the mobile computing device . For example the first internal antenna element may be located substantially near the top of the housing and or the top of the PCB . The second internal antenna element may be located substantially near the bottom of the mobile computing device . For example the second internal antenna element may be located substantially near the bottom of the housing and or the bottom of the PCB .

In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an internal quad band antenna architecture having a split tri band single band design. For example the first internal antenna element may be configured for single band UMTS operation in the 2100 MHz frequency band. The second internal antenna element may be configured for tri band GSM operation in the 850 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band and the 1900 MHz frequency band 850 1800 1900 MHz or in the 900 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band and the 1900 MHz frequency band 900 1800 1900 MHz . In such embodiments the first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may coexist to cover all four frequency bands with sufficient efficiency and specific absorption rate SAR performance. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

The first internal antenna element e.g. single band element may be positioned substantially near the top of the housing and or the top of the PCB . The first internal antenna element may be configured to operate in the highest frequency band such as the 2100 MHz frequency band and may require the smallest antenna volume. In some embodiments the first internal antenna element may be structured and arranged in close proximity to the audio receiver the speaker a camera and or a battery within the mobile computing device . Due to the small volume required by the first internal antenna element e.g. single band element there is sufficient space on the top of the mobile computing device to implement the audio receiver as well as a high quality speaker a camera and or other components.

In various implementations the first internal antenna element may employ a PIFA type design having a ground layer of the PCB underneath the internal antenna element . The ground plane may improve antenna performance and reduce SAR. The ground plane also may be required underneath the first internal antenna element when certain components positioned at the edge of the PCB demand a ground layer underneath for their circuitry. In such implementations the first internal antenna element may achieve greater than 50 efficiency with a SAR value lower than the FCC limit of 1.6 mW g.

The second internal antenna element e.g. tri band antenna element may be positioned substantially near the bottom of the housing and or the bottom of the PCB in order to improve efficiency. In some embodiments the second internal antenna element may be structured and arranged in close proximity to various components of the mobile computing device such as a battery and or battery connector within the mobile computing device .

In various implementations the second internal antenna element may be structured and arranged with a bent or folded configuration. For example the second internal antenna element may employ a paper clip type design in which most of ground layer of the PCB underneath the internal antenna element is removed. In such implementations the antenna pattern may be optimized and most of the radiating element at the lower frequency bands may be on the top of the antenna carrier and further away from the PCB . As such the internal antenna element may achieve 50 minimum efficiency at the 850 1800 1900 or 900 1800 1900 MHz frequency bands with a reduced SAR value of 1.35 mW g which is lower than FCC limit of 1.6 mW g.

The first internal antenna element e.g. single band element may be positioned at the top of the mobile computing device and the second internal antenna element e.g. tri band antenna element may be positioned at the bottom of the mobile computing device to allow enough spatial separation to provide sufficient isolation among all four e.g. 850 1800 1900 2100 or 900 1800 1900 2100 MHz frequency bands. In some embodiments the first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may achieve maximum separation within the mobile computing device . For example the first internal antenna element may be integrated with the mobile computing device such that an external surface of the first internal antenna element is substantially even aligned or flush with the top of the housing and or the top of the PCB . The second internal antenna element may be integrated with the mobile computing device such that an external surface of the second internal antenna element is substantially even aligned or flush with the bottom of the housing and or the bottom of the PCB .

The internal antenna architecture may allow the audio receiver to port to the rear of the mobile computing device while implementing a quad band antenna solution for a mobile computing device having a small form factor. The internal antenna architecture also may allow devices e.g. QWERTY keyboard products to have smaller internal dimensions and smaller antenna area while maintaining excellent GSM and UMTS services and functionality such as high quality audio and camera functionality in the back of the device.

While the mobile computing device shown in comprises an exemplary embodiment it can be appreciated that other design layouts may be implemented consistent with the described embodiments. For example the exact placement or location of the first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element within the mobile computing device may be performed in accordance with various performance and design constraints. For example the efficiency of each antenna may depend upon a proper relationship between the size and shape of the antenna and the wavelength of the targeted frequency. The specific frequency range that the antenna is designed to cover may dictate the optimal size of an antenna. Therefore the specific implementation of the first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may vary depending upon such factors as the target operating frequencies power consumption requirements battery life a form factor of the mobile computing device transceiver operations signal quality weight considerations of the mobile computing device and so forth.

The first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may be arranged to transmit and or receive electrical energy according to a given set of performance or design constraints. During transmission an antenna may accept energy from a transmission line and radiate radio frequency RF energy into space via a wireless shared media. During reception an antenna may gather RF energy from an incident wave received over wireless shared media and provide RF energy to a corresponding transmission line. The power radiated from or received by an antenna typically is described in terms of gain. An antenna may operate according to a desired Voltage Standing Wave Ratio VSWR value that relates the impedance match of an antenna feed point with a feed line or transmission line of a communications device. To radiate RF energy with minimum loss or to pass received RF energy to a wireless receiver with minimum loss the impedance of an antenna may be matched to the impedance of a transmission line or feed point of the PCB .

The first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. Accordingly the mobile computing device may be compatible with multiple types of wireless data multimedia and or cellular systems. In addition the first internal antenna element and or the second internal antenna element may be used to implement various spatial diversity techniques to improve communication of wireless signals across one or more frequency bands of wireless shared media.

While particular examples may be described for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the first internal antenna element and or the second internal antenna element may be implemented using any suitable type of internal antenna which is consistent with the described embodiments. Examples of such internal antennas include a PIFA antenna a paper clip antenna a planar inverted L antenna an inverted F antenna with a helical structure an inverted L antenna with a helical structure a monopole antenna a meandered monopole antenna a dipole antenna a balanced antenna a printed helical antenna a chip antenna a ceramic antenna and so forth.

In various embodiments the first internal antenna element and or the second internal antenna element may comprise multiple layers and or traces formed by chemical etching metal etching and other similar techniques. The actual number of layers and length of each individual layer may vary for a particular implementation. The antenna traces may have any suitable pattern or geometry tuned for various operating frequencies. For example the antenna traces may comprise one or more center lines and or branch lines. Phase lines and or various chip components such as resistors capacitors or inductors may be used among the center lines and or branch lines. The different elements may be contacted or parasitic.

In various embodiments the first internal antenna element and or the second internal antenna element may comprise a flexible material or substrate. A flexible material may include any pliant material that is capable of being bent or flexed such as a flexible printed circuit FPC . Other flexible materials may be used however such as a wire material helical material Teflon material FR4 material Mylar material dielectric substrate a soft plastic material and other flexible materials.

In some embodiments the first internal antenna element and or the second internal antenna element may comprise a rigid material. A rigid material may include any material that is deficient in or devoid of flexibility. Examples of rigid materials may include metal materials plastic materials ceramic materials and so forth. In some cases an antenna may be formed using a flat stamped metal having suitable characteristics to match the design and performance constraints for the mobile computing device .

As shown the mobile computing device may comprise an additional or third internal antenna element disposed on the PCB . In one or more embodiments the third internal antenna element may comprise a single band antenna element such as a separate Global Positioning System GPS antenna element. In such embodiments the third internal antenna element may be configured to operate in the 1575 MHz frequency band for GPS services. Accordingly the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide various position determining capabilities and or location based services LBS . Examples of such services include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of services based on the current location of the mobile computing device .

In some embodiments the third internal antenna element may be structured and arranged in close proximity to the audio receiver and various components e.g. speaker camera battery within the mobile computing device . Due to the small volume required by the first internal antenna element e.g. single band element there is sufficient space on the top of the mobile computing device to implement the audio receiver as well as the third internal antenna element e.g. GPS antenna element .

In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an internal antenna architecture having a single internal antenna element positioned on a PCB at the top of the mobile computing device . In various implementations the internal antenna element may comprise a single band antenna. In such implementations the internal antenna element may allow the mobile computing device to operate in a single frequency band such as in the 850 MHz frequency band the 900 MHz frequency band the 1800 MHz frequency band or the 1900 MHz frequency band. It can be appreciated that other frequency bands may be implemented consistent with the described embodiments.

As shown in the internal antenna element e.g. single band antenna element may be structured and arranged in close proximity to the audio receiver . Due to the small volume required by the internal antenna element e.g. single band element there is sufficient space on the top of the mobile computing device to implement the audio receiver and the speaker .

While the mobile computing device shown in comprises an exemplary embodiment it can be appreciated that other design layouts may be implemented consistent with the described embodiments. For example the exact placement or location of the internal antenna element within the mobile computing device may be performed in accordance with various performance and design constraints. It also can be appreciated that internal antenna element may be positioned elsewhere within the mobile computing device e.g. side or bottom and in some embodiments may comprise a multi band e.g. dual band tri band antenna.

The mobile computing device may comprise an internal quad band antenna architecture having a split tri band single band design including a first internal antenna element e.g. single band 2100 MHz antenna element positioned on the PCB at the top of the mobile computing device and a second internal antenna element e.g. tri band 850 1800 1900 MHz or 900 1800 1900 MHz antenna element positioned on the PCB at the bottom of the mobile computing device . The mobile computing device also may comprise a third internal antenna element implemented for example as a GPS antenna.

The first internal antenna element e.g. dual band antenna element and the second internal antenna element e.g. tri band antenna element may be coupled to each other by an RF connector . In one or more embodiments the RF connector may comprise a dual mode RF connector supporting communication by the mobile computing device over both a GSM network and a UMTS network.

In various embodiments first internal antenna element and the second internal antenna element may be electrically connected through the RF connector to a transceiver module operatively associated with a processor module . In order to increase power transfer the transceiver module may be interconnected to an antenna such that respective impedances are substantially matched or electrically tuned to compensate for undesired antenna impedance. In some cases the transceiver module may be implemented as part of a chip set associated with the processor module .

In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the processor module for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processor module .

The transceiver module may comprise for example one or more cellular transceivers or components arranged to support communication over a cellular voice channel for a system such as a CDMA GSM and or UMTS cellular system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more WWAN transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WWAN data channel in accordance with one or more WWAN protocols such as EVDO protocols EVDV protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols GSM GPRS protocols EDGE protocols HSDPA protocols and so forth. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WLAN data channel in accordance with one or more WLAN protocols such as IEEE 802.11a b g n protocols IEEE 802.16 protocols IEEE 802.20 protocols PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. The transceiver module may comprise a GPS transceiver coupled to the third antenna element e.g. GPS antenna to support position determination capabilities and or location based services.

In various embodiments the processor module may comprise one or more processors such as a host processor and or a radio processor. In such embodiments the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. The host processor and the radio processor may communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may comprise a dual processor architecture it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing web browser applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks GPS applications LBS applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. In such embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. Although the radio processor may be implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

Various embodiments are directed to audio receiver design that may potentially improve the performance of a mobile computing device by improving one or more of characteristics such as a size shape form factor power consumption battery life transceiver operations signal quality weight and other characteristics of the mobile computing device. For example various embodiments may provide improved performance while complying with regulatory requirements e.g. SAR limit for device operation. In various implementations the described embodiments may provide flexibility for low profile small and compact device designs. Accordingly a user may realize enhanced products and services.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

