---

title: Difluorophenol derivatives and their use
abstract: The present application relates to novel difluorophenol derivatives, processes for their preparation, their use for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prophylaxis of diseases, especially for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08173704&OS=08173704&RS=08173704
owner: Bayer Pharma Aktiengesellschaft
number: 08173704
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061009
---
This application is a National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 based on International Application No. PCT EP2006 009726 filed Oct. 9 2006 which claims priority to German Patent Application Number 102005050497.3 filed Oct. 21 2005 the entire contents each of which are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing applications and all documents cited therein and all documents cited or referenced therein and all documents cited or referenced herein including any U.S. or foreign patents or published patent applications International patent applications as well as any non patent literature references and any manufacturer s instructions are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to novel difluorophenol derivatives processes for their preparation their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the heme group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron center of the heme group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a heme dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the heme group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of heme free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO heme adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin IX to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the heme containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but heme dependent stimulator YC 1 described above M lsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the heme containing and the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a heme independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the heme containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leucotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methyl morpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

If a radical in the compounds according to the invention can be substituted more than once by fluorine then in the context of the present invention this includes a perfluoro substitution.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention also to compounds of the formula I B 

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds of the invention of the formula I in which U V and W together form a group of the formula CH CH CH

Inert solvents for process steps II III A IV A and II III B IV B are for example ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene pentane hexane heptane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or mixtures of these solvents. Tetrahydrofuran in a mixture with hexane is preferably used.

Suitable bases for these process steps are the bases customary for a Wittig reaction. These include in particular strong bases such as n sec or tert butyllithium lithium diisopropylamide LDA or lithium sodium or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide. n Butyllithium is preferred.

The reactions II III A IV A and II III B IV B are generally carried out in a temperature range from 78 C. to 20 C. preferably at 20 C. to 10 C. 

Examples of inert solvents for process step IV B V IV C are ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetonitrile dimethylformamide dimethyl sulfoxide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Acetonitrile is preferably used.

Suitable bases for this process step are in particular potassium carbonate sodium or potassium hydride lithium diisopropylamide or n butyllithium. Potassium carbonate is preferably used.

The reaction IV B V IV C is generally carried out in a temperature range from 20 C. to 120 C. preferably at 50 C. to 100 C.

The hydroxy protective group PG used is preferably a silyl group such as for example trimethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl or tert butyldiphenylsilyl. Triisopropylsilyl is particularly preferred. The silyl group is preferably eliminated in process step IV A or IV C VI with the aid of tetra n butylammonium fluoride TBAF or hydrogen fluoride. The reaction is generally carried out in tetrahydrofuran as solvent in a temperature range from 0 C. to 40 C.

Hydrolysis of the ester or nitrile group T in process step VI I C takes place by conventional methods by treating the esters and nitriles respectively in inert solvents with acids or bases and with the latter converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxyic acids by treatment with acid. The ester cleavage in the case of tert butyl esters preferably takes place with acids.

Inert solvents suitable for these reactions are water or the organic solvents usual for ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichlormethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preferably mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are employed and in the case of nitrile hydrolysis preferably water or n propanol is employed. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane is used and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Sodium potassium or lithium hydroxide are particularly preferred.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid are preferred in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The nitrile hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

The process sequence IV A or IV C I C can where appropriate also be carried out as a one pot reaction in which the elimination of the protective group PG and the hydrolysis of the group T take place simultaneously. Suitable for this purpose are in particular strong acids or bases such as hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid or sodium or potassium hydroxide.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out in each case under atmospheric pressure.

The aldehydes of the formula II can be prepared in analogy to processes known from the literature for example by a sequential dialkylation of diallyl malonate with compounds of the formulae VII and VIII 

The compounds of the formulae III A and III B can be obtained by processes known from the literature by reacting compounds of the formula XI A or XI B 

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds according to the invention of the formula I in which U V and W together form a group of the formula CH CH N

In the process sequence XII I D described above it is possible if expedient for individual reaction steps also to be transposed in the sequence thereof. Thus for example the amine XII can be dialkylated initially with the compound VIII and then with the compound VU to give the compounds of the formula XIV . It is likewise possible for the hydrolysis of group T and or the elimination of the protective group PG to take place at earlier times during the process sequence XII I D cf. also reaction scheme 10 below . Such variations are familiar to the skilled worker and are encompassed by the process according to the invention.

Inert solvents for process steps XII VII XIII and XIII VIII XIV are for example ethers such as diethyl ether tert butyl methyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions halohydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane tetrachloromethane 1 2 dichloroethane trichloroethylene or chlorobenzene or other solvents such as acetone acetonitrile pyridine dimethyl sulfoxide dimethylformamide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Dimethylformamide and acetone are preferred.

Bases suitable for these process steps are the usual inorganic or organic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as lithium sodium potassium calcium or cesium carbonate alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride amides such as lithium diisopropylamide or lithium or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or organic amines such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine or pyridine. Sodium or potassium carbonate and triethylamine are particularly preferred.

The reactions XII VII XIII and XIII VIII XIV can advantageously be carried out where appropriate in the presence of an alkylation catalyst such as lithium sodium or potassium iodide.

Process steps XII VII XIII and XIII VIII XIV generally take place in a temperature range from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably at 50 C. to 80 C.

The hydroxy protective group PG preferably used is a silyl group such as for example trimethylsilyl triisopropylsilyl tert butyldimethylsilyl or tert butyldiphenylsilyl. Triisopropylsilyl is particularly preferred. The silyl group is preferably eliminated in process step XIV XV with the aid of tetra n butylammonium fluoride TBAF or hydrogen fluoride. The reaction is generally carried out in tetrahydrofuran as solvent in a temperature range from 0 C. to 40 C.

The hydrolysis of the ester or nitrile group T in process step XV I D takes place by conventional methods by treating the esters or nitriles in inert solvents with acids or bases and in the latter case converting the initially formed salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. In the case of the tert butyl esters the ester cleavage preferably takes place with acids.

Inert solvents suitable for these reactions are water or the organic solvents usual for an ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preferably mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are used and in the case of nitrile hydrolysis preferably water or n propanol is employed. Dichloromethane is preferably used in the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid and tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is preferably used in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Sodium potassium or lithium hydroxide are particularly preferred.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with the addition of water. Preference is given to hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid in the case of the tert butyl esters and to hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl or ethyl esters.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The nitrile hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

The process sequence XIV XV I D can where appropriate also be carried out as a one pot reaction in which the elimination of the protective group PG and the hydrolysis of the group T take place simultaneously. Suitable for this purpose are in particular strong acids or bases such as hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid or sodium or potassium hydroxide.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out in each case under atmospheric pressure.

The starting compounds XVI and XX used in process sequences B C D E correspond to the compounds of the formulae IV A IV B IV C and XIV described above.

The compounds according to the invention of the formula I in which U V and W together form a group of the formula CH CH CH

The compounds of the formulae V VII VIII XI A XI B XII and XVIII are commercially available disclosed in the literature or can be prepared by processes disclosed in the literature see also reaction schemes 1 2 and 10 below .

The preparation of the compounds of the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistoric and ischemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequelae of cerebral infarctions such as stroke cerebral ischemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic route or as implant stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 111 of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. W detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 211 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Merck Chromolith SpeedROD RP 18e 50 mm 4.6 mm eluent A water 500 l of 50 formic acid l eluent B acetonitrile 500 l of 50 formic acid l gradient 0.0 min 10 B 3.0 min 95 B 4.0 min 95 B oven 35 C. flow rate 0.0 min 1.0 ml min 3.0 min 3.0 ml min 4.0 min 3.0 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2790 column Symmetry C 18 50 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent B acetonitrile 0.05 formic acid eluent A water 0.05 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 10 B 3.5 min 90 B 5.5 min 90 B oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 6.5 min 90 B 6.7 min 2 B 7.5 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 30.0 min 90 B 30.2 min 2 B 32 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

3.0 g 14.7 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid are introduced into 30 ml of abs. THF at 0 C. then a 1 M solution of 557 mg 14.7 mmol of lithium aluminum hydride in 14.7 ml of THF is added dropwise and the solution is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. The mixture is added to ice acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is concentrated and the crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel. 2 g 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.79 g 10.5 mmol of methyl 5 fluorosalicylate 20 g 10.5 mmol of 2 4 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethanol and 2.76 g 10.5 mmol of triphenylphosphine are introduced into 50 ml of THF and at 0 C. a solution of 1.83 g 10.5 mmol of DEAD in 10 ml of THF is added dropwise. The mixture is stirred at RT overnight and the volatile components are then removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 1 . 2.09 g 58 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

2.0 g 5.84 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy benzoate are introduced into 25 ml of THF then at 0 C. 4.38 ml 4.38 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at RT until reaction is complete. The mixture is added to ice water acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. All the volatile components are removed in vacuo and the crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 1.7 g 82 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.7 g 5.41 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy benzyl alcohol and 1.76 g 5.14 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are heated under reflux in 20 ml of acetonitrile for three hours. A first product fraction is crystallized at 20 C. The mother liquor is concentrated the residue is dissolved in dichloromethane and a second fraction is crystallized with diethyl ether. A total of 2.71 g 76 of theory of the title compound is obtained.

10.0 g 58 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate CAS 391 92 4 13.3 g 64.5 mmol of 2 chlorobenzyl bromide CAS 611 17 6 40.6 g 293 mmol of potassium carbonate and 14.6 g 88 mmol of potassium iodide are dissolved in 50 ml of acetone and stirred under reflux for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed twice each with 10 strength sodium hydroxide solution 1 N hydrochloric acid and water. Drying over magnesium sulfate filtration and washing with ethyl acetate are followed by concentration. The residue is stirred with petroleum ether and the solid is filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 10.0 g 33.9 mmol 59 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

10.0 g 34 mmol of methyl 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoate are dissolved in 80 ml of methanol and 40 ml of 40 strength sodium hydroxide solution and stirred at RT for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo water is added to the residue until it has all dissolved and the solution is then extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase is acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The mixture is dried over magnesium sulfate filtered washed with ethyl acetate and concentrated. The residue is mixed with petroleum ether and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 6.00 g 21.3 mmol 63 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

5.50 g 20 mmol of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoic acid are dissolved in 25 ml of THF heated to reflux and then 20 ml of 1 M borane dimethyl sulfide complex are added dropwise. The mixture is then cooled to room temperature and stirred at this temperature for 1 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and water is added to the residue. Acidification is then carried out cautiously copious gas evolution with 1 N hydrochloric acid. 1 N sodium hydroxide solution is then added to make slightly basic and the aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. Petroleum ether is added to the residue and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 3.65 g 13.6 mmol 68 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4.60 g 17 mmol of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzyl alcohol are dissolved in 10 ml of acetonitrile then 5.62 g 16 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are added and the suspension is stirred under reflux for 12 h. A further 2.80 g 8 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are added and the mixture is stirred under reflux for a further 3 h. The solvent is mostly distilled out in vacuo the crystals which have separated out are stirred with petroleum ether filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 9.82 g 15.7 mmol 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

7.00 g 30.6 mmol of ethyl 4 bromobenzoate are dissolved in 60 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 6.96 g 36.7 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 271 mg of bis triphenyl phosphine palladium II chloride and 40.7 ml of a 2 M aqueous sodium carbonate solution are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelute washed with dichloromethane and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 . 6.31 g 21.4 mmol 70 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

12.7 ml 12.7 mmol of a 1 M lithium aluminum hydride solution in THF are slowly added to a solution of 6.24 g 21.2 mmol of ethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate in 60 ml of dry THF at 0 C. After the reaction is complete the mixture is hydrolyzed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 5.10 g 20.2 mmol 95 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 5.00 g 19.8 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 yl methanol in 40 ml of chloroform is mixed with 2.89 ml 39.7 mmol of thionyl chloride dissolved in 10 ml of chloroform and the mixture is stirred at room temperature over 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is taken up ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium carbonate solution. The organic phase is subsequently separated off dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated after filtration. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . 5.26 g 19.4 mmol 98 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 4.59 g 36.9 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol CAS 2357 33 7 in 200 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 10.0 g 36.9 mmol of 4 chloromethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl and 6.13 g 44.3 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After concentration the resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 11.8 g 32.9 mmol 89 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 3.00 g 7.97 mmol of 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl methanol in 20 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 2.60 g 7.57 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide and heated under reflux for 20 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in petroleum ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. 2.31 g 3.29 mmol 41 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

30.0 g 190 mmol of 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzaldehyde CAS 118276 06 5 are dissolved under argon in 600 ml of dichloromethane and at 0 C. 44.7 g 417 mmol of 2 6 lutidine are added. Then 87.2 g 284 mmol of triisopropylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at RT for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is mixed with ammonium chloride solution and stirred for 5 min and the organic phase is separated off. A further extraction with dichloromethane is carried out and the organic phases are combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and washed with dichloromethane and the solvent is distilled off in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane results in 34.9 g 111 mmol 58 of theory of the title compound.

35.0 g 111 mmol of 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzaldehyde are introduced into 150 ml of water and 40 ml of methanol cooled to 0 C. and after addition of 8.42 g 222 mmol of sodium borohydride in portions stirred at RT overnight. The mixture is cautiously acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is distilled out in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 results in 29.5 g 93.2 mmol 84 of theory of the title compound.

7.40 g 23.4 mmol of 1 3 difluoro 5 hydroxymethyl 2 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzene are dissolved in 90 ml of dry dichloromethane by stirring at 0 C. under argon. 10.1 g 30.4 mmol of tetrabromomethane and 7.97 g 30.4 mmol of triphenylphosphine are successively added to this solution and the mixture is then stirred under reflux under argon for 12 h. The reaction mixture is washed with water the organic phase is separated off dried over magnesium sulfate and filtered and the solvent is distilled out in vacuo. The oily residue is taken up in diethyl ether and stirred at RT then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated. Chromatography of the residue on silica gel 60 mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 results in 7.42 g 15.6 mmol 84 of theory of the title compound.

3.17 g 10.14 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonylheptanedioate Example 48A are dissolved in 30 ml of DMF and at 0 C. 0.45 g 11.15 mmol of 60 sodium hydride is added in portions and the mixture is stirred at RT for 30 minutes. After renewed cooling to 0 C. a solution of 5 g 13.18 mmol of 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl bromide in 20 ml of DMF is added dropwise and the mixture is stirred while warming to room temperature overnight. The mixture is poured into ice weakly acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane then cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 4.57 g 73 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4.2 g 6.88 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonyl 2 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxy benzyl heptanedioate 39 mg 0.17 mmol of palladium II acetate and 135 mg 0.52 mmol of triphenylphosphine are stirred in 30 ml of dioxane under argon. A solution of 2.3 g 22.69 mmol of triethylamine and 0.79 g 17.19 mmol of formic acid in 20 ml of dioxane is then added dropwise and the mixture is heated at 100 C. overnight. The cooled mixture is concentrated and the crude product is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 3 1 . 2.07 g 52 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.6 g 3.29 mmol of 2 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl heptanedioic acid 7 ethyl ester are dissolved in 30 ml of THF and cooled to 10 C. under argon. Then 4.27 ml 4.27 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. until reaction is complete. The mixture is hydrolyzed with water and extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 1 3 1 . 1.18 g 76 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.19 g 2.52 mmol of ethyl 6 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 7 hydroxyheptanoate are stirred with 5 g of 4 molecular sieves and 442 mg 3.78 mmol of N methylmorpholine N oxide in 50 ml of dichloromethane at room temperature for 10 minutes. 44 mg 0.13 mmol of tetrapropylammonium perruthenate are added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. The mixture is filtered and the filtrate is washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 3 1 . 1.0 g 84 of theory of the title compound is obtained.

0.7 ml 1.12 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane is added dropwise to a suspension of 784 mg 1.06 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy benzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 10 ml of THF at 0 C. and then stirred for 45 min. Subsequently a solution of 500 mg 1.06 mmol of ethyl 7 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxy phenyl 6 formylheptanoate in 10 ml of THF is added dropwise at 0 C. and then stirred at this temperature for 2 h. The mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 1 . 813 mg 84 of theory of the title compound are obtained as an E Z mixture 2 1 .

Reaction in analogy to Example 21A of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzyl tri phenylphosphonium bromide and ethyl 7 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxyphenyl 6 formylheptanoate results in the title compound with 70 of theory as E Z mixture 2 1 .

Reaction in analogy to Example 21A of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy benzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide and ethyl 7 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxyphenyl 6 formylheptanoate results in the title compound with 70 of theory.

720 mg 0.89 mmol of ethyl 6 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 8 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl oct 7 enoate are introduced into 15 ml of THF at 0 C. under argon 1.77 ml 1.77 mmol of a 1 M solution of tetra n butylammonium fluoride in THF are added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. All the volatile components are removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 1 . 400 mg 68 of theory of the title compound are obtained as an E Z mixture 2 1 .

814 mg 20.36 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions caution evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 5 g 27.15 mmol of diallyl malonate in 25 ml of dioxane at 0 C. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 40 C. for 30 minutes. Subsequently at 40 C. 3.3 g 13.57 mol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate dissolved in 25 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 120 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. Excess diallyl malonate is then removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 1 1 . 2.8 g 26 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

5.9 g 17.05 mmol of diallyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate are dissolved in 125 ml of dioxane and at 0 C. 818 mg 20.46 mmol of 60 sodium hydride are added in portions and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 30 min. After renewed cooling to 0 C. a solution of 9.7 g 25.57 mmol of 3 54 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl bromide in 125 ml of dioxane is added dropwise and the mixture is stirred while warming to room temperature for 2 h. The reaction solution is then added to 250 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 7.2 g 65 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

9.2 g 14.27 mmol of diallyl 2 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate 64 mg 0.29 mmol of palladium II acetate and 262 mg 1 mmol of triphenylphosphine are stirred in 300 ml of dioxane under argon. Then a solution of 4.76 g 47.08 mmol of triethylamine and 1.64 g 35.67 mmol of formic acid in 200 ml of dioxane is added dropwise and the mixture is heated at 100 C. for 2 h. The cooled mixture is concentrated and the crude product is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 3.69 g 49 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4.2 g 8.07 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 4 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxyphenyl butyl benzoate are dissolved in 200 ml of THF and cooled to 10 C. under argon. Then 16.13 ml 16.13 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. until reaction is complete. The mixture is hydrolyzed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with diethyl ether and the combined organic phases are concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 10 1 4 1 . 2.92 g 71 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 2.9 g 5.72 mmol of methyl 4 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 4 hydroxybutyl benzoate in 50 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 1.48 g 6.87 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 h. After conversion is complete about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 1.96 g 68 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

7.49 ml 11.98 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 2.38 g 5.14 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 50 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 2.16 g 4.28 mmol of methyl 4 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzoate are slowly metered in. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours and then mixed with 100 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 2.37 g 90 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.3 g 2.19 mmol of methyl E4 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate in 20 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 600 mg 2.62 mmol of 4 tert butylbenzyl bromide and 450 mg 3.28 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 780 mg 48 of theory of a colorless oil are obtained.

780 mg 1.05 mmol of methyl E 4 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl pent 4 enyl benzoate are introduced into 20 ml of THF at room temperature under argon 2.11 ml 2.11 mmol of a 1 M solution of tetra n butylammonium fluoride in THF are added and the mixture is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. All the volatile components are then removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 229 mg 37 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

5.59 g 139.88 mmol of 60 pure sodium hydride are added in portions caution evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 34.35 g 186.51 mmol of diallyl malonate in 300 ml of dioxane at 0 C. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 40 C. for 30 minutes. Subsequently at 40 C. 19.59 g 93.25 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile dissolved in 200 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is then stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 200 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution. The mixture is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. Excess diallyl malonate is then removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 4 1 . 14.18 g 24 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

10 g 31.91 mmol of diallyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl malonate are dissolved in 250 ml of dioxane and at 0 C. 1.4 g 35.1 mmol of 60 sodium hydride are added in portions and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 30 min. After renewed cooling to 0 C. a solution of 14.53 g 38.30 mmol of 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl bromide in 250 ml of dioxane is added dropwise and the mixture is stirred while warming to room temperature for 2 h. The reaction solution is then added to 500 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 14.3 g 73 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4720 mg 7.72 mmol of diallyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 2 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl malonate 34.6 mg 0.15 mmol of palladium II acetate and 141.6 mg 0.54 mmol of triphenylphosphine are stirred in 180 ml of dioxane under argon. Then a solution of 2576 mg 25.60 mmol of triethylamine and 887.7 mg 19.29 mmol of formic acid in 90 ml of dioxane is added dropwise and the mixture is heated at 100 C. for 2 h. The cooled mixture is concentrated and the crude product is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 2 1 1 1 . 3682 mg 97.9 of theory of the title compound are obtained

4879 mg 10 mmol of 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl butanoic acid are dissolved in 244 ml of THF and cooled to 10 C. under argon. Then 20.01 ml 20.01 mmol of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. until reaction is complete. The mixture is hydrolyzed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with diethyl ether and the combined organic phases are concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 4 1 2 1 1 1 . 2705 mg 57 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 750 mg 1.58 mmol of 4 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 4 hydroxybutyl benzonitrile in 9 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 409 mg 1.9 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 h. After conversion is complete about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed in vacuo to dryness. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 5 1 2 1 . 493 mg 64 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

1.82 ml 2.91 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 579 mg 1.25 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 11.5 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 490 mg 1.04 mmol of 4 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzonitrile are slowly metered in. The reaction solution is stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and then mixed with 100 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 379.7 mg 54 of theory of a colorless solid are obtained.

1.7 g 3 mmol of 4 4E 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilyl oxy benzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzonitrile in 35 ml of acetonitrile are mixed with 627 mg 4.5 mmol of potassium carbonate and 1 g 4.5 mmol of 4 tert butylbenzyl bromide and stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The solvent is stripped off in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed once with sodium bicarbonate solution and once with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 628 mg 85 purity 0.76 mmol 25 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 625 mg 85 pure 0.75 mmol of E 4 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl pent 4 enyl benzonitrile in 12 ml of toluene is mixed with 1.76 ml 13.24 mmol of trimethylsilyl azide and 329.6 mg 1.3 mmol of di n butyltin oxide and stirred at 80 C. for 12 h. After conversion is complete the mixture is extracted with sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous phase is back extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 2 ethyl acetate . 447.3 mg 0.51 mmol 86 purity 58 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

205 g 0.54 mol of 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl 1 1 biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl methanol are introduced into 1322 ml of dichloromethane at room temperature under argon and a few drops of dimethylformamide are added. Then 122.5 ml 1.68 mol of thionyl chloride are slowly added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. All the volatile components are removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water while cooling. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium carbonate solution and water and dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is removed in vacuo. 211 g 93 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

211 g 0.51 mol of 4 2 chloromethyl 4 fluorophenoxy methyl 4 trifluoromethyl 1 1 biphenyl are dissolved in 1.78 liters of dimethylformamide water 5 1 v v . Then at room temperature 149.1 g 3.04 mol of sodium cyanide and a catalytic amount of potassium iodide are metered in. The reaction solution is stirred at 120 C. overnight. After reaction is complete TLC check with cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 the reaction solution is cooled to room temperature and concentrated to about 60 of the solvent volume in vacuo. After addition of 5 liters of water the reaction solution is extracted three times with 3 liters of ethyl acetate each time. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue is chromatographed twice on 10 kg of silica gel mobile phase toluene . 145.7 g 69 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

140.97 g 0.366 mol of 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl 1 1 biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl acetonitrile are dissolved in 701 ml of anhydrous THF under argon and after cooling to 0 C. 361.6 ml 0.362 mol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are added. Then 73.2 g 0.55 mol of aluminum trichloride in 701 ml of THF are slowly added dropwise to the reaction solution. The reaction mixture is stirred at room temperature for 3.5 h. After reaction is complete the solution is cooled to 0 C. and aqueous sodium hydroxide solution is slowly added. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The crude product is purified by chromatography on 10 kg of silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 6 4 . 90.28 g 61 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

13.8 g 30 mmol of 2 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl ethylamine hydrochloride obtainable by taking up the compound of Example 45A in a 1 M solution of hydrogen chloride in dioxane reconcentrating the solution and drying the resulting residue are introduced into 200 ml of DMF mixed with 32.4 ml 0.23 mol of triethylamine and heated to 60 65 C. At this temperature 9.48 g 0.05 mol of ethyl 5 bromovalerate are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred for 12 hours. After cooling the mixture is added to water adjusted to pH 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 10 1 . 4.5 g 8.9 mmol 18 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 4.5 g 6.93 mmol of ethyl 5 2 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl ethyl aminopentanoate in 90 ml of THF is mixed with 18 ml of half concentrated hydrochloric acid and heated at 100 C. for 20 min. After cooling the mixture is added to water and neutralized with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. It is extracted with ethyl acetate the organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is crystallized from ethyl acetate diethyl ether 1 1 . The resulting crystals are filtered off with suction and dried under high vacuum. 2.4 g 4.9 mmol 71 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

16.29 g 407.19 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 100 g 542.92 mmol of diallyl malonate in 900 ml of dry dioxane at 5 C. After gas evolution ceases the reaction mixture is warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 30 min. Then 56.76 g 271.46 mmol of ethyl 5 bromovalerate in 100 ml of dry dioxane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours. After the reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and added to about 400 ml of ice water. After neutralization of the reaction mixture with 1 N hydrochloric acid the organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is extracted three times with 250 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After the organic phases have been combined they are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated in vacuo. Subsequently excess diallyl malonate is removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 73.92 g 236.65 mmol 44 of theory of a colorless liquid are obtained.

400 mg 0.61 mmol of ethyl 6 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzyl 8 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl oct 7 enoate are stirred overnight at 50 C. with 73 mg 1.83 mmol of sodium hydroxide in a mixture of 20 ml of THF and 10 ml of water. The cooled mixture is acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. 333 mg 86 of theory of the title compound are obtained as E Z mixture 2 1 .

333 mg 0.53 mmol of E Z 6 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzyl 8 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl oct 7 enoic acid Example 1 are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 60 mg and 46 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure and respectively 42 mg and 38 mg of the two Z isomers are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 4 7 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 24 C.

293 mg 0.56 mmol of E Z 8 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorophenyl 6 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzyl oct 7 enoic acid Example 2 are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 50 mg and 34 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure and respectively 56 mg and 26 mg of the two Z isomers are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 8 11 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 acetic acid isohexane 20 80 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

229 mg 0.39 mmol of methyl E 4 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 3 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzyl pent 4 enyl benzoate in 10 ml of methanol are stirred overnight at room temperature with 2 ml of 45 strength sodium hydroxide solution. After the reaction is complete the mixture is acidified with dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 154 mg 67 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

154 mg 0.27 mmol of E 4 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 3 3 5 difluoro 4 hydroxybenzyl pent 4 enyl benzoic acid are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 55 mg and 51 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 13 and 14 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 24 C.

442 mg 0.51 mmol 86 pure of E 5 4 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 3 3 5 difluoro 4 triisopropylsilanyloxybenzyl pent 4 enyl phenyl 1H tetrazole are charged in 12 mol of THF cooled to 0 C. mixed with 1.18 ml 1.18 mmol of a 1 M solution of tetra n butylammonium fluoride in THF with exclusion of oxygen and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture is then added to ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. 297 mg 0.5 mmol 98 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

297 mg 0.5 mmol of 4 3E 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 1H tetrazol 5 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl 2 6 difluorophenol are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 140 mg and 52 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 16 and 17 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak OD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 40 mg 0.08 mmol of 5 2 5 fluoro 2 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxyphenyl ethyl aminopentanoic acid in 5 ml of acetone is mixed with 54.5 mg 0.09 mmol of 4 bromomethyl 2 6 difluorophenoxy triisopropyl silane Example 16A 22.6 mg 0.16 mmol of potassium carbonate and 20.3 mg 0.12 mmol of potassium iodide and heated under reflux for 12 h. Cooling is followed by addition of water to the mixture and extraction with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is distilled off in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 15.3 mg 0.024 mmol 30 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with 95 O 5 COand has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7 HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 13 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 13 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of the infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

