---

title: Remote handset diagnostics
abstract: A system for remote handset diagnostics is provided. The system includes a plurality of handsets each having a diagnostic engine, and a carrier system having a plurality of encoder/decoder components. Each encoder/decoder component is operable to promote communication with at least one diagnostic engine to obtain diagnostic data. The carrier system further includes a diagnostic component that is operable to provide a common interface for diagnosing handsets. The diagnostic component is also operable to communicate with the plurality of encoder/decoder components and to facilitate diagnosis of the handset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611889&OS=08611889&RS=08611889
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08611889
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060926
---
A handset may refer to a mobile phone a wireless handset or telephone a pager a personal digital assistant a portable computer a tablet computer or a laptop computer. When a user of the handset needs assistance in operating a handset the user may contact a customer service center for a telecommunications network carrier. The customer service center may only provide certain assistance to the user which may be limited when the handset is not physically present at the customer service center. If the customer service center cannot remedy the problem with the handset the customer service center may send the handset to the handset manufacturer and may charge the handset manufacturer for the return. Also customer satisfaction may decrease when the handset is at the customer service center or at the handset manufacturer. Servicing the handset at the customer service center or at the handset manufacturer may create expenses for the network carrier the handset manufacturer or both.

In one embodiment a system for remote handset diagnostics is provided. The system includes a plurality of handsets each having a diagnostic engine and a carrier system having a plurality of encoder decoder components. Each encoder decoder component is operable to promote communication with at least one diagnostic engine to obtain diagnostic data. The carrier system further includes a diagnostic component that is operable to provide a common interface for diagnosing handsets. The diagnostic component is also operable to communicate with the plurality of encoder decoder components and to facilitate diagnosis of the handset.

In another embodiment a method for remote handset diagnostics is provided. The method includes remotely obtaining first diagnostic data from a handset diagnostic engine by a carrier diagnostic computer. The method includes assisting a user of the handset to operate the handset based on the first diagnostic data obtained from the handset. The method provides for remotely obtaining second diagnostic data from the handset diagnostic engine by a manufacturer diagnostic computer. The method also provides for assisting the user of the handset to operate the handset based on the second diagnostic data obtained from the handset.

In yet another embodiment a system for remote handset diagnostics is provided. The system includes a plurality of handsets at least some of the handsets are provided by different manufacturers. A handset diagnostic engine corresponding to each handset is also provided. At least some of the different manufacturers having different handset diagnostic engines. The system also includes a telecommunications carrier system and a manufacturer system. The telecommunications carrier system includes a carrier diagnostic component for each of the plurality of different handset diagnostic engines. Each of the carrier diagnostic components is operable to obtain first diagnostic data from the corresponding handset diagnostic engine. The manufacturer system includes a manufacturer diagnostic component for each of the plurality of different handset diagnostic engines manufactured by the manufacturer. Each of the manufacturer diagnostic components is operable to obtain second diagnostic data from the corresponding handset diagnostic engine.

These and other features and advantages will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although an exemplary implementation of one embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated below the present system may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The present disclosure should in no way be limited to the exemplary implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below including the exemplary design and implementation illustrated and described herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. This application includes subject matter related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 535 293 filed Sep. 26 2006 entitled Handset Self Diagnostics by Sudheer Kumar Peddireddy et al. which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

When a handset user informs a customer service center such as of a telecommunications provider about a handset problem embodiments of the present disclosure enable the customer service center to use a diagnostic computer to remotely communicate with a diagnostic engine on the handset. The diagnostic engine may obtain diagnostic data to correct the handset problem even when the handset is not physically present at the customer service center. In some embodiments of the present disclosure a diagnostic computer includes diagnostic capabilities for obtaining diagnostic data for different types of handsets and for assisting users to operate each different type of handset. By increasing the diagnostic capabilities of the customer service center embodiments of the present disclosure promote resolving more problems which in turn increases customer satisfaction for handset users. Embodiments of the present disclosure may also reduce the expenses for handling service issues and reduce the need to service a handset at a customer service center and or at the handset manufacturer.

The handset may communicate with a carrier system through a wireless network such as the carrier s telecommunications network. The carrier system may include a customer service system and a diagnostic computer . The carrier s diagnostic computer may be a separate or integrated system for communicating with the diagnostic engine and assisting a user to operate the handset . A user of the handset communicates with the customer service system to obtain assistance with the handset . The customer service system may use the diagnostic computer to diagnose the handset to assist the user to operate the handset .

The diagnostic computer includes a diagnostic component an encoder a decoder and a knowledge base . The diagnostic component may be a software application or tool that promotes or allows the customer service representative to interface with the diagnostic engine on the handset . It should be understood that handset manufacturers generally develop proprietary systems for their handsets. This may allow the manufacturer to develop more efficient systems with greater functionality.

Accordingly each different handset typically has a different proprietary diagnostic engine . The diagnostic engine may access handset systems and generate or record diagnostic data that is proprietary and specific to the handset or handsets of the manufacturer. Diagnostic data is information related to the operation of the handset and may include but is not limited to error logs records of problems dropped calls information handset system parameters success cases configuration values CPU processor usage and activity other handset systems information and information other than commonly accessible handset settings which tend to be more readily accessible to users. The user of the handset typically could not directly access this diagnostic engine or related data. The manufacturer then provides a different diagnostic engine and systems or applications to communicate with each different handset and each different diagnostic engine .

The present embodiment provides a plurality of different encoders and decoders each encoder and decoder may be the manufacturer s proprietary systems to communicate with their specific proprietary handset diagnostic engine . The encoders and decoders are intended to denote that any number of different encoders and decoders might be provided and available to promote communications with their respective proprietary diagnostic engines .

The encoder is a device used to change data or requests into code or signals understandable to the diagnostic engine in contrast to the decoder which is a device used to change code or instructions back into data understandable to the diagnostic component . The diagnostic computer may use the appropriate encoder to encode communications to the associated diagnostic engine and may use the appropriate decoder to decode communications from the associated diagnostic engine . Because these handset systems are typically proprietary attempts have been made to provide standards for these systems. For reasons of simplicity cost and ease of development handset manufacturers have been reluctant to adopt standards and develop non proprietary systems. As a result the manufacturers would provide a proprietary custom software application or tool to interact with or obtain information from each different diagnostic engine .

The present disclosure provides the diagnostic component which may have standardized graphical user interface GUI and includes a common interface API application programming interface or other means to promote ready communication with a plurality of different encoders and decoders . For example a plurality of manufacturers might provide their encoders and decoders capable of communication with the diagnostic component based on a standard API. This allows the manufacturers to develop and keep the handset systems proprietary while at the same time the diagnostic component using or provided with a standardized API provides a single tool and or user interface for customer service representation to easily access and communicate with the diagnostic engines of a plurality of different handsets . In this manner the encoders and decoders used by the diagnostic component are provided by for example the original equipment manufacturer OEM that develops the proprietary application for communicating with each of the OEM s different diagnostic engines and related handsets. This allows the OEM s system such as the encoder decoder source code that promotes communication that OEM s handset diagnostic engine to be used by the telecommunication provider for example without the OEM having to divulge any proprietary information.

The diagnostic computer may use the knowledge base to assist the user to operate the handset . The knowledge base is a database that may include records regarding specific handset problems and specific actions that are used to assist users with each specific handset problem. Each time a handset problem is solved its knowledge base may be updated.

The system may also include a manufacturer system which may include a diagnostic computer which may be similar to the carrier s diagnostic computer . The handset may also communicate indirectly with the manufacturer system directly via the wireless network or via the carrier system and the Internet or via a direct connection. The manufacturer s diagnostic computer is a computer used by a handset manufacturer in a manner similar to that of the diagnostic computer . The manufacturer s diagnostic computer may include components similar to the components in the diagnostic computer such as the diagnostic component the encoder the decoder and the knowledge base . It will be appreciated that the manufacturer s system may only have encoders and decoders that correspond to their own handset. In contrast the carrier system and carrier s diagnostic computer may have the encoders and decoders of numerous manufacturers handsets. The handset manufacturer may also have additional or updated diagnostic information that the carrier system may not have. Furthermore the manufacturer diagnostic computer may have additional capabilities to access different systems in the handset . Although only one manufacturer and manufacturer system is shown multiple manufacturers and their respective systems may be provided. Similar to the carrier diagnostic computer the manufacturer diagnostic computer may use the knowledge base on the manufacturer diagnostic computer to assist the user to operate the handset .

Turning now to a flowchart of a method for remote handset diagnostics is depicted according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. At a block the method includes providing a plurality of handsets each having diagnostic engines . At a block the method includes providing a plurality of encoders and decoders . Each encoder and decoder is operable to promote communication with at least one of the handset diagnostic engines .

At a block the method includes providing the carrier system with the diagnostic component that is operable to communicate with each of the plurality of proprietary encoders and decoders . The diagnostic component is further operable to facilitate communication with the handsets and diagnostic engines on the handsets . It should be appreciated that the diagnostic component may determine to send the signal to the diagnostic engine on the handset . Since the diagnostic engine is proprietary the diagnostic component may be unable to communicate directly with the diagnostic engine . The diagnostic component may request the encoder that is associated with the diagnostic engine to encode a signal or communication or otherwise work in conjunction with the diagnostic component to formulate a request for specific information to send to the diagnostic engine . The encoder may then encode the appropriate information. In some embodiments the diagnostic component may send scripts or other information based on the encoder to the diagnostic engine to receive such information.

When information is returned from the diagnostic engine to the carrier system the diagnostic component may utilize the decoder to decode the information sent from the diagnostic engine so that the information may be utilized and understood by the diagnostic component . The purpose for the communication between the carrier system and the handset and the diagnostic engine is to assist the user with problems whether the problems are hardware or software related or other issues such as assistance with operating the handset .

At a block the method includes providing the manufacturer system operable to communicate with at least one of the handsets . The manufacturer system may similarly include one or more encoders or decoders of the manufacturer to communicate with the diagnostic engine . This should be appreciated that the diagnostic capabilities of the present disclosure provide for remotely diagnosing and assisting the user with the handset in contrast to the user having to physically provide the handset to a carrier such as at a carrier business location or to physically return the handset to a manufacturer for repair. The present system allows the carrier system and or manufacturer system to communicate with the handset either wirelessly via the wireless network or via the Internet or in other ways well known to those skilled in the art. The remote communication between the carrier and manufacturer systems and and the handset may be initiated either by the handset and or the carrier and the manufacturer systems and .

The method further provides for the user requesting assistance with the handset at block . This may include the user contacting the customer service system such as by calling a customer service representative. The method further provides for the carrier system remotely assisting the user with the handset such as using the diagnostic capabilities provided by the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however that the carrier system may also provide for assisting the user with more common settings and other related problems in that the carrier system may provide the knowledge base that assists the customer service representative in resolving issues with the handset . Similarly the method provides at a block for the manufacturer system to remotely assist the user with the handset in a similar manner.

In some embodiments the diagnostic computers or of the carrier or manufacturer might initiate remotely diagnosing or other communication with the handset. This communication may be with or without the knowledge or assistance of the user of the handset . Furthermore the carrier or manufacturer diagnostic computers might be operable to send software or firmware for example new or updated firmware or software to the handset remotely as well.

It should be appreciated that the diagnostic and other data and information collected may be stored on a storage device on the handset and periodically retrieved and communicated to other systems. Alternatively the diagnostic and other data and information might be collected from the handset and then transmitted without being stored or some data or portions of the data might be stored temporarily or otherwise and then transmitted to the relevant systems.

The handset includes a display and a touch sensitive surface or keys for input by a user. The handset may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The handset may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The handset may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the handset to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction.

Among the various applications executable by the handset are a web browser which enables the display to show a web page. The web page is obtained via wireless communications with a cell tower a wireless network access node or another wireless communications network or system. The cell tower or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the handset has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the handset in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory . In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the handset to send and receive information from a cellular network or some other available wireless communications network. The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. The analog baseband processing unit may provide channel equalization and signal demodulation to extract information from received signals may modulate information to create transmit signals and may provide analog filtering for audio signals. To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the handset to be used as a cell phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration.

The DSP may send and receive digital communications with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments these digital communications may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB interface and the infrared port . The USB interface may enable the handset to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the handset to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the handset to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the handset . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the handset to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the handset to determine its position. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

One or more applications or systems described above may be implemented on any general purpose computer with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. illustrates a typical general purpose computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage read only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices. The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA and or global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be coupled through some interface or device such that the items may no longer be considered directly coupled to each other but may still be indirectly coupled and in communication whether electrically mechanically or otherwise with one another. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

