---

title: Resilient joint for deployable structures
abstract: A resilient flexure has one end attached within a cavity in a rigid member, and the other end attached within a cavity in a structural mode. The cavities are shaped to limit the flexure's bend radius. The member and the node have mating surfaces that abut to constrain the amount of rotation of the member. The aforementioned elements are shaped to prevent the strain in the flexure from exceeding its design limit when the joint is at its maximum angular deflection and the attached member is fully collapsed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07435032&OS=07435032&RS=07435032
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07435032
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060808
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States for all governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty.

The present invention is related to a resilient monolithic joint for collapsing a structure to a reduced volume for storage and subsequently restoring the structure to its useful configuration without requiring the application of an external force. More particularly the present invention is a joint comprised of a piece of resilient deformable material attached at one end to a rigid member and at its other end to a structural node. The material can be deformed when it is desired to collapse the member and when it is desired to deploy the member will return to its original shape in the absence of the application of an external force.

It is ofttimes necessary to transport a structure that occupies considerable volume. Where space on the vehicle being used to transport the structure is at a premium e.g. a launch vehicle for reaching a space station it is desirable to collapse the structure to occupy a considerably less volume and subsequently deploy the members to re form the original structure without undue difficulty or requiring tools that would also occupy space as well as add mass.

One approach is to construct a joint of two parts where one part rotates relative to the other by means of sliding contact for example a ball and socket or a pin and clevis. The two parts require a clearance between them to allow for the desired relative rotation. The inherent problem is that for a deployable structure using a plurality of such joints clearance between each pair of joint parts is cumulative. This creates the problem known as dead band where movement at one end of a structure is not communicated to the other end until the intervening clearances are taken up. Where structural tolerances are small dead band is a significant problem.

Furthermore such joints require the application of force to deploy the collapsed members and re form the original structure i.e. at least as much force as was required to originally collapse each member. Deployment may also require the use of tools. For terrestrial applications the foregoing may be considered as inconveniences however where the deployment is to be extraterrestrial both of the foregoing present serious drawbacks.

In view of the aforementioned problems with two piece joints a monolithic joint comprised of a compliant material has been used. An example of such a joint is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 432 609. A further refinement is to use a joint material that is resilient and returns to its original shape without requiring the application of an external force. Examples of this approach are shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 386 128 5 196 857 6 175 989 and 6 772 479. However both such joints fail to ensure that the maximum design strain of the joint material is not exceeded when the attached member is rotated to an extreme position. This shortcoming could cause the joint to fail.

There a need in the art for a joint that avoids the dead band problem inherent to two piece joints as well as overcomes the shortcoming of monolithic joints in failing to ensure that the strain design limit of the joint material is not exceeded. The present invention is a monolithic joint that by its intrinsic nature avoids the dead band problem while ensuring that the strain of the joint material does not exceed its design limit. Furthermore the work expended to bend the joint material is stored and subsequently used to restore the joint to its neutral position without requiring the application of an external force. The present invention thus fulfills the aforementioned needs in the art.

Briefly the present invention is comprised of a monolithic joint that allows a rigid structurally efficient member to be rotatably collapsed and then subsequently deployed without requiring the application of an external force into its original configuration. It is thus suitable for both terrestrial as well as extraterrestrial applications. A flexure comprised of a less structurally efficient resilient material has one end attached to a cavity in the member while its other end is inserted into a cavity in a structural node. Both cavities are shaped to limit the flexure s bend radius. In addition the member and the node have mating surfaces that abut to also constrain the amount of rotation.

The combination of these two design elements prevents the strain in the flexure from exceeding its design limit when the joint is at its maximum angular deflection and the attached member is fully collapsed. The joint of the present invention displays strength stability and stiffness properties comparable to those of a kinematically equivalent sliding contact mechanism but without the dead band problem.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and illustrating by way of example the principles of the invention.

Turning to the drawings illustrates flexure joints and of the present invention. Joint is comprised of flexure structural node and structural connector . Node is attached atop nonarticulating rigid member . Node includes cavity and connector includes cavity . Flexure is attached at its two ends respectively to base region of cavity and base region of cavity . Cavity includes curved surface having radius of curvature R. Cavity includes curved surface also having radius of curvature R. Cavity also includes base and planar parallel lateral sides with only side being shown. Cavity also includes planar parallel lateral sides with only side being shown. Node and connector include mating surfaces . Member is fixedly attached to connector .

Joint is comprised of flexure node and connector . Node also includes cavity and connector includes cavity . Flexure is attached at its two ends respectively to base region of cavity and base region of cavity . Cavity includes curved surface having radius of curvature R base and planar parallel lateral sides with only side being shown. Cavity includes curved surface also having radius of curvature R as well as parallel lateral sides with only side being shown. Node and connector include mating surfaces . Member is fixedly attached to connector .

Flexures and are composed of a resilient material such that after each is bent or otherwise deformed from its unstrained or neutral shape i.e. the flat shape shown in each of them stores as potential energy the work expended to deform them and thus tends to return to its undeformed neutral shape. Such resilient materials include spring steel Copper Beryllium alloy unreinforced plastic polymer fiber reinforced plastic fiber glass reinforced plastic carbon fiber reinforced plastic and various shape memory alloys. The aforementioned materials are well known to those skilled in the mechanical and material arts and any such material may be used depending upon the desired modulus and strain to failure properties as will become readily apparent from the following discussion.

Near equiatomic Nickel Titanium is an example of a shape memory alloy that may be used to form flexures and . The foregoing alloy in addition to creating a restoring moment to enable self deployment permits the recovery of strains greater than the strain recovery for non phase changing materials. Moreover near equiatomic Nickel Titanium can affect the recovery rate of a single flexure or sequence the strain release for a set of flexures by means of either passive or active manipulation of the alloy s phase.

More particularly near equiatomic Nickel Titanium is capable of a solid state phase transformation between a high and low temperature phase where the latent energy of the transformation is either an addition or subtraction of thermal and or mechanical energy to or from the alloy. The addition of mechanical energy alone can induce a transformation from the high to the low temperature phase whereupon the alloy will exhibit a phenomenon known in the art as superelasticity. When in a superelastic state or a thermally and mechanically induced low temperature state the alloy can be deformed to a maximum recoverable strain higher than non phase changing materials and thus is more compliant. This response is desirable for the present invention because a greater maximum strain would permit flexure to achieve a smaller bend radius for a given cross section and thus allow joint to be more compact while having a lower mass.

Furthermore the phase of near equiatomic Nickel Titanium may be manipulated to retard the strain release of flexure i.e. decrease the rate of its return to its neutral shape to a rate less than that of a flexure composed of a non phase changing material as well as coordinate the time when the strain release commences relative to other joints to provide a degree of control over the deployment of member that is not possible with flexures fabricated from non phase changing materials. For example phase manipulation may be used to sequence the respective strain release from a set of flexures and thereby sequence their respective deployments. When the latent energy of the transformation is obtained from the surrounding environment e.g. from solar radiation or transferred to the surrounding environment e.g. by conduction radiation or convection the manipulation is considered passive. If this energy is obtained from or transferred to ancillary mechanical or thermal actuation systems the manipulation is considered active.

As shown in mating surfaces abut when member is rotated to its fully collapsed position. This abutment limits the maximum rotation of member to an angle of 90 and in combination with the radius of curvature Rof cavity surfaces and limits the maximum strain realized in flexure . The radius of curvature Rshould be adjusted in view of the material used to fabricate flexure to ensure that the design strain limit of flexure is not exceeded.

Although surfaces and are described as being curved with a constant radius of curvature R the aforementioned surfaces may in the alternative be elliptical or arcuate in order to provide the desired strain profile for flexure as it bends.

When member is in its fully collapsed position i.e. at an angle of 90 the work expended to rotate member to this position is stored in flexure . While member is in its collapsed position flexure is applying a restorative moment tending to rotate member back to its deployed position. Thus to maintain member in its collapsed configuration a fastening means not shown well known to those skilled in the mechanical arts e.g. a fastener or launch lock restrains it. In essence the fastening means serves to apply a normal force Fto member sufficient to overcome the restorative moment of flexure . Upon release or disengagement of the fastening means the restraining normal force Fis removed and the restorative moment stored in flexure causes member to return to its deployed position i.e. the neutral position shown in without the aid of an external force.

The corresponding elements of joint cooperate in the same manner as described with respect to the elements of joint in changing the deployed position of member shown in to the collapsed configuration shown in and will not be repeated for the sake of brevity. However it is noteworthy that the shape of mating surfaces is different than the shape of mating surfaces due to the different locations of joints and on node .

Flexures and are nested in node to provide for a more compact profile when the structure is in its collapsed configuration than would be the case without such nesting. More particularly bases and are separated by a nesting distance d. The width of the profile comprised of node together with joints and decreases as the nesting distance d is increased.

It is to be understood that the preceding is merely a detailed description of an embodiment of this invention and that numerous changes to the disclosed embodiment can be made in accordance with the disclosure herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. The preceding description therefore is not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined only by the appended claims and their equivalents.

