---

title: Locating and displaying information about users of proximately located wireless computing devices
abstract: A wireless communications signal is sampled to obtain one or more data packets. Identifying data is then retrieved from the wireless data packets that uniquely identifies a proximately located computing device that transmitted one or more of the data packets. A server computer is then queried with the identifying data to obtain additional information regarding the proximately located computing device. The additional information regarding the proximately located computing device may then be utilized to obtain data regarding an owner or user of the proximately located computing device. This information may be display within a graphical user interface and exposed to application programs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07603130&OS=07603130&RS=07603130
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07603130
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060308
---
In corporate environments many employees spend a significant amount of time in meetings. Oftentimes an employee may participate in a meeting that includes other employees whom they do not know. If an introduction is not made at the meeting the employee later may be too embarrassed to introduce herself. Similarly an employee may be in a meeting with other employees that they have met previously but whose names they cannot remember. In this case the employee may be too embarrassed to introduce herself a second time.

Many corporate employees are issued computing devices that include wireless networking capabilities. For instance many employees now have laptop or notebook computers that include wireless networking capabilities. Similarly many employees may utilize cellular telephones or personal digital assistants PDAs that include wireless networking capabilities. Using these devices an employee may be able to access remotely stored information regarding other employees in a meeting. However if the names of the other employees are unknown it is not possible to locate information regarding the other employees. It would also not be possible to discretely contact the other employees to ask for their contact information without knowing at least their name in advance. Thus without knowing another employee s name in advance it would not be possible to contact the other employee with follow up questions regarding the meeting or to send meeting notes to the other employee.

Similar situations also occur in non corporate consumer environments. For instance public wireless data networks have become commonplace in coffee shops book stores and other retail locations. When using such networks it is currently not possible for a user to identify other users of the network in the same location discover information about the other users or to determine whether other users of the wireless network located nearby have common interests.

It is with respect to these considerations and others that aspects of a computing system for locating and displaying information about users of proximately located computing devices are described below.

A system apparatus method and computer readable media are provided for locating and displaying information about users of proximately located wireless computing devices. A wireless communications signal is sampled to obtain one or more data packets. Data is then retrieved from the wireless data packets that uniquely identifies a proximately located wireless computing device that transmitted one or more of the data packets. A server computer is then queried with the identifying data to obtain additional information regarding the proximately located computing device.

The information regarding the proximately located computing device may then be utilized to obtain data regarding an owner or user of the proximately located computing device. For instance a server computer may be queried with the information to obtain the name address phone number e mail address title office location picture and other information about the owner or user of the computing device. This information may be display within a graphical user interface. Signal to noise ratio data may also be generated from the wireless data packets. From the signal to noise ratio data a relative distance to the proximately located computing device may be computed. The relative distance to the proximately located computing device may then be displayed within the graphical user interface.

The information about the user or owner of the proximately located computing device may also be exposed to application programs. For instance the information may be exposed to an instant messaging IM client application. The IM client application may then query an IM server computer with the information to determine whether the user or owner of the computing device is also a user of the IM server. If so the IM client application may present options for communicating with the user of the proximately located computing device.

The information about the owner or user of the proximately located computing device may also be exposed to a personal information manager PIM application program that includes calendar functionality. The PIM application compares the information to a list of scheduled meeting attendees to determine whether the user of the proximately located computing device is a scheduled meeting attendee. The PIM application also records whether the user of the computing device is proximately located during the scheduled time of a meeting. If a scheduled meeting attendee is not proximately located during a scheduled meeting time a record of the meeting may be transmitted to the non present attendee. A note taking application program may also utilize the information to record in the meeting notes a list of the individuals that were present at the meeting.

The above described subject matter may also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable medium. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. These and various other features will be apparent from a reading of the following Detailed Description and a review of the associated drawings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following detailed description is directed to systems methods and computer readable media for locating and displaying information about users of proximately located computing devices. While the subject matter described herein is presented in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with the execution of an operating system on a computer system those skilled in the art will recognize that other implementations may be performed in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the subject matter described herein may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The subject matter described herein is also described as being practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network and wherein program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. It should be appreciated however that the implementations described herein may also be utilized in conjunction with stand alone computer systems and other types of computing devices.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures aspects of a computer system for locating and utilizing information regarding a user of a proximately located wireless computing device will be described. In particular shows aspects of an illustrative operative environment for the subject matter described herein.

The illustrative operating environment shown in includes a wireless network . The wireless network is made up of one or more computing devices A F and a wireless network router . The computing devices A F may comprise any type of wireless networking enabled computing device including but not limited to laptop computers desktop computers PDAs cellular telephones hand held or console gaming systems set top boxes and any other type of computing device with integrated or add on wireless networking hardware. As shown in each of the computing devices is operated by a user A F respectively. Each of the users A F may also be the owner of their respective computing device A F.

The wireless network router is connected to the wired network . The wired network may comprise a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network or other type of network known to those skilled in the art. The wireless network router enables communication between the computing devices A F and the wired network . In particular each of the computing devices A F communicates with the wireless network router via wireless communications signals A F respectively. The wireless router relays requests and responses between the computing devices A F and the various resources available on the wired network such as the directory server and the IM server . The wireless communications signals A F generated by the wireless network router and the computing devices A F make up the communications medium for the wireless network .

It should be appreciated that the wireless network may operate utilizing virtually any wireless networking standard including both short range and long range wireless networking standards. For instance according to embodiments the wireless network comprises a wireless network compatible with the IEEE 802.11b or 802.11g wireless networking standards collectively known as WIFI . Alternatively the wireless network may comprise a long range wireless network compatible with the IEEE 802.16 standard known as WIMAX. It should be appreciated however that virtually any type of wireless network may utilize the aspects of the computing systems described herein. It should also be appreciated that while the aspects of the computing systems described herein are presented in the context of an infrastructure network the computing systems described herein are equally applicable to ad hoc and mesh wireless networks that do not utilize a centralized wireless access point such as the wireless network router .

The wired network includes a network connection to a directory server . The directory server is a central repository for storing information regarding computing devices and users of the computing devices. For instance the directory server may maintain a directory database that includes data regarding the computing devices A F and the users A F of the computing devices. According to one implementation the directory server comprises a server computer executing the ACTIVE DIRECTORY directory service from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. It should be appreciated however that other types of directory applications from other manufacturers may also be utilized.

With regard to the computing devices A F the directory database may contain data identifying the type of computing device and its specifications data identifying a unique hardware identifier for the computing device data that uniquely identifies the wired and wireless network adapters within the computing device one or more networking addresses of the computing device and the identity of the owner of the computing device. According to embodiments the data that uniquely identifies the wired and wireless network adapters within a computing device is the media access control MAC address of the device. As known to those skilled in the art wired and wireless network adapters are assigned a globally unique MAC address at the time of manufacture. As will be described in greater detail below in one embodiment the MAC address of a computing device A F is utilized to uniquely identify the computing device when it is operating within the wireless network . It should be appreciated that other information may also be stored in the directory database and utilized in the manner described herein.

With regard to the users A F the directory database may contain data regarding each user A F such as the user s name title office location photograph department employment status and other information. It should be appreciated that the computing devices A F may be utilized to query the directory server for data contained in the directory database . In this regard the directory server is operative to receive and respond to queries for information contained in the directory database from the computing devices A F. As will be described in greater detail below data that uniquely identifies one of the computing devices A F may be utilized in a query to the directory server to retrieve data about the user A F of the identified computing device.

As shown in the wired network is also connected to an IM server . The IM server is a server operative to enable instant messaging communications between IM client applications executing on two or more of the computing devices A F. The IM server may also enable other types of interaction between the IM client applications such as voice or video chat. To enable these features the IM server maintains an IM database . The IM database is utilized to store user profiles for each registered user of the IM server . A user profile may include data such as the user s identity electronic mail address contact preferences interests and other information. According to embodiments each user profile also includes information that uniquely identifies the user s computing device A F such as the MAC address of a wireless network adapter in the user s computing device. As will be described in greater detail below this information is utilized to identify computing devices that are communicating on the same wireless network and therefore proximately located to one another.

In order to enable the features described herein the wireless network interface of one or more of the computing devices A F is placed in a promiscuous mode of operation. The promiscuous mode of operation is a special reception mode that allows a wireless network interface to receive all data packets that are transmitted on the wireless network rather than just packets intended for itself. In this manner each of the computing devices A F may be configured to receive packets transmitted from another of the computing devices A F to the wireless network router . For instance if the wireless interface of the computing device A is placed into promiscuous mode the computing device A will receive wireless packets transmitted by the computing devices B F to the wireless network router . It should be appreciated that the implementations described herein may operate without utilizing the promiscuous mode of operation. However without using the promiscuous mode not all of the wireless packets transmitted by the other computing devices on the wireless network may be received.

As shown in the wireless data packet includes a data payload C. The data payload C includes the actual data for the packet. The data payload C may or may not be encrypted. However because the data that uniquely identifies the source and destination of the wireless data packet is sent in the clear it is not necessary to utilize the contents of the data payload C. Accordingly the use of wireless security protocols in the wireless network does not impact the ability of the computing systems described herein to perform their described functions.

As will be described in greater detail below with reference to the wireless communications signal A F may be sampled in promiscuous mode by one of the computing devices A F to obtain wireless data packets transmitted by or intended for other computing devices. Data may then be retrieved from the wireless data packets that uniquely identifies the proximately located wireless computing device that transmitted one or more of the data packets such as the computer s MAC address. A server computer such as the directory server or the IM server is then queried with the identifying data to obtain additional information regarding the proximately located computing device. The information regarding the proximately located computing device may then be utilized to obtain data regarding a user A F of the proximately located computing device. This information may then be exposed to application programs for use in a variety of ways described below.

Referring now to a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the subject matter described herein may be implemented will be provided. In particular shows an illustrative computer architecture for a computing device . This computer architecture may be utilized to embody the computer systems illustrated in and discussed above with reference to . For instance the computer architecture shown in may be utilized to implement the computing devices A F the directory server the instant messaging server and any other computer systems discussed herein. It should be appreciated that although the computer architecture shown in embodies a standard laptop desktop computer or server computer other types of computer architectures and computing devices may be utilized. In particular the subject matter described herein may be utilized with a conventional desktop or personal computer a laptop computer a handheld or portable computing device a server computer a wireless handset such as a cellular or PCS telephone a personal digital assistant a custom hardware device and virtually any other type of computing device.

The computer architecture shown in includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computing device further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which will be described in greater detail below.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computing device . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computing device .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD HD DVD BLU RAY or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device .

According to various embodiments of the subject matter described herein the computing device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the Internet. The computing device may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computing device may also include a wireless network interface for connecting to a wireless network . As shown in the wireless network may provide a gateway for connecting to the network . The wireless network interface may be embodied as an add on card for the computing device such as a PCMCIA adapter card or may be physically integrated with the other components making up the computing device .

The wireless network interface may also be compatible with various wireless networking standards. For instance according to embodiments the wireless network interface comprises a card compatible with the IEEE 802.11b and IEEE 802.11g networking standards. The wireless network interface may also be compatible with current or future long range wireless networking standards such as WIMAX. It should be appreciated that the embodiments described herein may be utilized with virtually any wireless networking standard or protocol.

The computing device may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device also not shown in .

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computing device including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked personal computer such as the WINDOWS XP operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. Other operating systems may also be utilized such as the LINUX operating system the OSX operating system from APPLE COMPUTER INC and others. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store a wireless presence application program an IM client application a personal information manager PIM application program and a note taking application program .

The wireless presence application is an application program that is operative to perform the functions described herein for placing a wireless network interface into a promiscuous mode for sampling the wireless communications signal A F to obtain wireless data packets for extracting the data from the packets that uniquely identifies the sender or receiver of the packet and for querying the directory server for information regarding the proximately located computing device A F that sent or received the packet or its user A F. According to an implementation the wireless presence application is further operative to receive signal strength data for the wireless data packets from the wireless network interface . This signal strength data may then be utilized to calculate the relative distances from the computing device receiving the packets to each of the other proximately located computing devices A F. Other types of wireless network interfaces may also provide distance and direction data that may be utilized by the wireless presence application .

According to other implementations the wireless presence application is further operative to provide a user interface for displaying information regarding the proximately located computing devices A F and the users A F. This user interface is described in greater detail below with respect to . According to yet other implementations the wireless presence application is operative to expose the information regarding the proximately located computing devices A F and the users A F to other application programs. Details regarding these other application programs and their use of the exposed data is provided below with respect to . It should be appreciated that although the functionality described herein is presented as being performed by the wireless presence application it should be appreciated that this functionality may be embodied in other types of applications programs or the operating system . In this regard the operating system may provide and expose interfaces that allow calling programs to obtain and utilize the collected data regarding the proximately located computing devices and users.

It should be appreciated that the wireless presence application may provide additional functionality other than that described above. For instance according to an implementation the wireless presence application may be configured to provide a notification when a computing device passes within close proximity. This may be useful for instance for determining when a desired user comes within wireless range. Other functionality may also be incorporated into the wireless presence application.

The IM client application comprises an application program operative to communicate with the IM server computer and potentially directly with other IM client applications. The IM client application provides functionality and a user interface that allows users of the IM server computer to communicate with one another through text audio or video messaging.

According to an implementation the IM client application is also operative to identify other users of the IM server computer that are proximately located and to provide information and enable communications with these users. The IM client application may comprise the MSN MESSENGER instant messaging client application program from MICROSOFT CORPORATION or another IM client application from another manufacturer. Additional details regarding the operation of the IM client application provided herein will be discussed below with reference to .

The PIM application comprises an application program for managing personal information such as electronic mail messages a calendar contacts tasks notes or other information. As will be described in greater detail below with respect to the PIM application provided herein is operative to utilize the information regarding the proximately located computing devices to determine whether users are present at a meeting. This data may be recorded in a calendar appointment by the PIM application . The PIM application may comprise the OUTLOOK personal information manager application program from MICROSOFT CORPORATION or another PIM application from another manufacturer.

The note taking application comprises an application program for allowing a user to take handwritten or typed notes. Audio or video may also be recorded and synchronized with the notes. As will be described in greater detail below with respect to the note taking application provided herein is operative to stamp the identities of users present at a meeting into the notes for the meeting. Additionally when operating in conjunction with the PIM application the note taking application program may be operative to transmit the notes for a meeting to users that were scheduled to attend the meeting but whose computing devices were not proximately located during the scheduled meeting time. The note taking application may comprise the ONENOTE note taking application program from MICROSOFT CORPORATION or another note taking application program from another manufacturer.

Turning now to an illustrative routine will be described showing the operation of the computer system for obtaining and displaying information regarding a user of a proximately located computing device. It should be appreciated that the logical operations described herein are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system. Accordingly the logical operations described herein with respect to are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination.

The routine begins at processing operation where the wireless presence application places the wireless network interface into promiscuous mode. As described above this allows the wireless network interface to receive wireless data packets intended for other wireless network interfaces. Once the wireless network interface has been placed into promiscuous mode the routine continues to operation where the wireless network interface samples the wireless data packets being transmitted on the wireless network . Sampling may take place for a predetermined period of time and be performed at predetermined times or triggered manually as described below. Continuous sampling of the wireless data packets may also be performed.

Once a sampling of wireless data packets has been obtained the routine continues to operation where the data that uniquely identifies the source of the data packet is obtained. In particular according to one implementation the source MAC address A is extracted from the sampled packets to identify each of the proximately located computers that transmitted a packet during the sampling period. The destination MAC address B may also be used similarly. Once the MAC addresses of the proximately located computing devices have been obtained the routine continues to operation .

At operation a query is transmitted to the directory server with a MAC address of a proximately located computing device. The query is structured to request the network address such as an internet protocol IP address of the computing device having the specified MAC address. In response the directory server searches the directory database for a record that includes the specified MAC address. If such a record is found the record is searched for the current IP address for the computing device. If located the IP address is returned in response to the query. The routine then continues to operation .

At operation a second query is transmitted to the directory server . This query includes the received IP address and requests information for the user that has been assigned the specified IP address. For instance the query may request the name picture title office location or other information for a user having the specified IP address. In response to the query the directory server queries the directory database to locate a user record that includes the specified IP address. If such a record is located the record is searched for the requested information. The requested information is then returned as a response to the query. The routine then continues to operation .

At operation the wireless presence application computes the relative distances to the proximately located computing devices. As described above this calculation is performed utilizing the signal strength data received from the wireless network interface . From operation the routine continues to operation .

At operation the wireless presence application generates a user interface for presenting the obtained data regarding the proximately located computing devices and users. This may also include presenting data regarding the relative distances and directions to the computing devices. shows an illustrative user interface for providing this information in one implementation. Accordingly additional details regarding this user interface will be provided below with respect to . From operation the routine continues to operation where it ends.

Indicators A E are also displayed at various locations on the circles A D. Each of the indicators A E represents the location of a detected proximately located computing device A F. The indicators A E are displayed in a location corresponding to the computed relative distance from the computing device executing the wireless presence application . If direction information is available the indicators A E are displayed in a manner that shows the actual direction to the computing device. The name A E of the user of the computing device is displayed next to each indicator A E respectively.

In order to display additional information regarding a user of one of the computing devices one of the indicators A E may be selected using an input device. In response to such a selection additional information regarding the user may be displayed. For instance as shown in a picture name A hire date B e mail address D and title E have been displayed in response to the selection of the indicator E. According to an implementation a user interface may be provided for adjusting the sensitivity of the user interface to display fewer or more users. Other information may also be displayed similarly.

Referring now to an illustrative routine will be described for locating information regarding proximately located computing devices and users and for exposing this information to other application programs. The routine begins at operation where information regarding proximately located computing devices and users is obtained. According to an implementation this information is obtained in the manner described above with respect to .

Once the information regarding the proximately located computing devices and users has been obtained the routine continues to operation where this information is exposed to other application programs. In order to expose the data an application programming interface API may be provided that exposes a public interface for obtaining the data. Once the interface has been exposed other applications may retrieve the data and utilize it in a variety of ways. In particular are flow diagrams that show illustrative uses of the data by an IM client application a PIM application and a note taking application respectively. Additional details regarding this functionality is provided below with respect to .

Turning now to a routine will be described illustrating the operations of the IM client application with regard to the use of information about proximately located computing devices and users. In particular the routine begins at operation where a user of the IM client application authorizes the submission of and storage of the MAC address of the wireless network interface in the IM profile database . Because this information is not typically stored in an IM profile database and utilized in the manner described herein the user may be prompted and given the opportunity to decline the submission of their MAC address to the IM server computer and the ability to be located wirelessly.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the IM server computer is queried with the MAC addresses of the proximately located computing devices. In response to such a query the IM server computer is operative to search the IM profile database to locate user profiles having the identified MAC addresses. If profiles are found the IM server computer returns the identity of the located users to the IM client application . In this manner other users of the IM server computer that are proximately located are identified and their identities submitted to the IM client application . This information is then displayed to the user at operation .

From operation the routine continues to operation where chat functionality is enabled with the users of the proximately located computers. In particular a list of the proximately located users may be displayed. If a user is selected they will be provided the opportunity to chat with the proximately located user via text audio or video. It should be appreciated that the functionality described herein is different than a traditional buddy list provided by IM client applications in that the proximately located users are typically not known in advance. From operation the routine continues to operation where it ends.

Referring now to a routine will be described illustrating the operations of the PIM application with regard to the use of information about proximately located computing devices and users. In particular the routine begins at operation where the PIM application program identifies the users scheduled to participate in a meeting. As described above the PIM application program includes calendaring functionality including the ability to schedule meetings and identify the users that are scheduled to attend the meeting.

Once the users scheduled to attend a meeting have been identified the routine continues to operation where the PIM application determines the users that are present at the meeting. This is accomplished by performing the process described above with respect to to generate a list of proximately located users. The users not currently present at the meeting are identified at operation by comparing the present users to a list of scheduled attendees. It should be appreciated that in order to be considered present at a meeting a user must have their wireless computing device turned on and the wireless network interface active.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the users present and not present at the meeting are recorded in a calendar event for the meeting. As will be described in greater detail below with respect to this information may also be utilized to transmit notes from the meeting to those users not in attendance. From operation the routine continues to operation where it ends.

Turning now to a routine will be described illustrating the operations of the note taking application with regard to the use of information about proximately located computing devices and users. In particular the routine begins at operation where the note taking application is utilized to record notes of the meeting. As discussed above the notes may comprise handwritten notes utilizing a touch screen or other pointing device typed notes audio notes or video notes.

From operation the routine continues to operation where the users present at the meeting are determined in the manner described above. Once the identities of the users present at the meeting have been identified the routine continues to operation where the identities of the users present at the meeting are stored in the meeting notes. In a similar manner this information may be updated as users join or exit the meeting to indicate the time at which users joined or left. When the meeting has completed the routine continues to operation where the meeting notes are transmitted using the PIM application to any users that were not present at the meeting. From operation the routine continues to operation where it ends.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that systems methods and computer readable media for locating and displaying information about users of proximately located computing devices. It should also be appreciated that the functionality described herein is performed without requiring any new application program code to be installed on the computers A F that are detected and identified as being proximately located as described above.

Although the subject matter presented herein has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features acts or media described herein. Rather the specific features acts and mediums are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. The various subject matter described above is provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Various modifications and changes may be made to the subject matter described herein without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

