---

title: Pore water sampler for long-term monitoring of ground water
abstract: A method and device for sampling pore water, including an elongated tubular outer body having a grid framework forming multiple perforations throughout the entire outer body. The grid framework surrounding the perforations has raised and beveled sides. An elongated, perforated tubular inner body is contained within the outer body. The inner body has a diameter less than a diameter of the outer body, which forms a cavity between the inner body and the outer body. The cavity is filled with an inert granular filler material. A first outer cap and a second outer cap cover respective ends of the outer body. A coupling is placed in fluid communication with the inner body and protrudes through the first outer cap. A tube is attached to the coupling protruding through the first outer cap to transfer a water sample to a sample collection site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07430929&OS=07430929&RS=07430929
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 07430929
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060406
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

Bibliographic details of the publications and the web sites numerically referred to in this specification are collected at the end of the description.

The present invention is directed in general to liquid sampling devices and more particularly to the monitoring of solutes in pore water beneath surface water.

In most cases of ground water contamination discharging to surface water the surface water body is considered to be the point of contact where there is a potential for contact of the contamination with flora or fauna. Because wells typically are not practical to install or sample beneath surface water wells on land typically are considered to be the point of compliance. The point of compliance is the point at which the concentrations of contaminants must meet regulatory levels. However numerous studies have shown that substantial contaminant degradation can take place in pore water in the immediate vicinity of the ground water discharge to surface water. Thus the concentrations at the point of compliance often may substantially overestimate the actual discharge concentrations.

The ability to routinely monitor the actual discharge concentrations can potentially allow a government facility for example to move the point of compliance from wells to the pore water beneath the surface water body. This will take advantage of the accelerated contaminant degradation in sediment near the discharge zone and allow the facility to more rapidly achieve compliance concentrations required by regulatory agencies in ground water prior to the point of contact. If an onshore well contains contaminant concentrations in excess of regulatory action limits and a pore water sampler shows that concentrations have declined to an acceptable range prior to discharge to surface water substantial cost savings can be achieved by the closing of the monitoring site.

There is strong interest on the part of the U.S. Department of Defense DoD to develop the ability to monitor contaminant discharge to surface water. For example programs are underway to design an extensive environmental monitoring system at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune and surrounding environs in east central North Carolina as part of an effort to address military and other impacts on the New River Estuary in North Carolina. In addition the DoD has requested the development of technology that will allow the long term monitoring of chlorobenzene contamination in pore water beneath surface water at the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi Tex. Existing technology is inadequate to perform this task.

Existing technology for sampling contaminants in pore water beneath surface water includes diffusion samplers. Diffusion samplers are polyethylene bags or other material filled with water or sorbent that are used in wells or other environments to passively sample volatile organic compounds VOCs see Vroblesky and Hyde 8 Karp 4 and Imbrigiotta et al. 2 . Diffusion samplers include passive diffusion bag PDB samplers that have been widely used. A user s guide for PDB samplers has been published see Vroblesky 10 and 11 . Passive vapor samplers have been developed for sampling beneath surface water see Church et al. 1 and Vroblesky 9 12 and 13 . Diffusion samplers for inorganic constituents have also been used see Vroblesky et al. 14 and 15 . Nylon screen diffusion samplers have been used to sample interstitial pore waters in wetlands sediment see Paludan and Morris 7 .

Most diffusion samplers including the ones mentioned above are not rechargeable. In other words the non rechargeable diffusion samplers are one time use instruments that require removal for recovery and replacement of a new sampler. The specific sampling point cannot be resampled for confirmation. Thus non rechargeable diffusion samplers have limited value for long term monitoring of a specific sampling point.

A rechargeable dialysis pore water sampler has been tested see Jacobs 3 but this type of sampler must be refilled with deionized deoxygenated water. Creating deoxygenated water can be time consuming and troublesome. A pore water sampler is needed that does not require refilling with any kind of water and that allows samples to be collected from the same location indefinitely assuming sufficient time elapses between sampling events for the ambient water to return to pre pumped conditions.

A broad variety of other diffusion type samplers are available and have been reviewed in a recent journal article see Namien nik et al. 5 .

Wells sometimes are installed in surface water bodies to monitor pore water concentrations but wells are limited in their application. Wells require a surface expression such as a standpipe that may be subject to disturbance by floating objects or currents. Moreover bottom sediment is often fine grained necessitating the need for a sand pack or other sediment filtering material surrounding the well screen.

Well screens with prepacked sand packs are widely available. Examples can be found at the websites of the following companies Geoprobe Systems 16 Johnson Screens India Ltd. 17 Weatherford International Ltd. 18 and Baker Hughes Inc. 19 . These well screens are designed to be attached to well pipe that extends below land surface. The designs are available as wire wrapped and slotted pipe and typically have a sand pack attached to them that is held in place by a stainless steel screen. The existing prepacked well screens are designed to be attached to well casing and thus are not applicable to monitoring pore water beneath surface water bodies.

Some prepacked screens are designed for oilfield use and are very complex. For example see the prepacked system shown on page 5 of the Schlumberger Limited website see Schlumberger Limited 20 .

Some prepacked well screens are expensive because stainless steel pipes are used. An example can be seen at the website of Johnson Screens India Ltd. 17 . The strength and durability provided by stainless steel pipes are not needed for the less pressurized environment of the bottom sediment pore water. Although some prepacked well screens have a small diameter pipe and are constructed of mostly plastic material such as the screens available from Geoprobe Systems see Geoprobe Systems 16 the prepacked sand in these wells is held in place by a stainless steel well screen. The stainless steel is needed because a less expensive material such as nylon mesh is not durable enough to withstand deployment abrasion. However some of the parameters of interest in pore water investigations may be adversely affected by the stainless steel. Stainless steel in contact with water can generate hydrogen see Bjerg et al. 6 . Because hydrogen is of great interest in microbial investigations of ground water the potential for stainless steel to produce artificially high hydrogen concentrations makes stainless steel an undesirable option for this type of sampling. In addition stainless steel is not recommended for metals sampling see Ministry of Environment 21 . A pore water sampler is needed that is not constructed of stainless steel.

Some existing prepacked screens are designed to sample aquifer sediment which typically consists of sands or gravels. However bottom sediment beneath surface water bodies usually is substantially different than aquifer sediment. Bottom sediment often is fine grained and in quiescent water can consist of a substantial amount of forest detritus. This detritus can consist of partially decomposed leaves which have a sheet like character. A single leaf when pulled against a screen or a smooth slotted surface such as the surface of the lysimeter described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 923 333 can wrap around and block a large amount of the screen opening cutting off flow. A pore water sampler is needed that is able to counteract the potential for leaf debris to blanket and obstruct large parts of the screen.

Typical prepacked screens used in oil technology are longer than 10 feet. Small diameter prepacked screens for ground water monitoring are available in 3 feet and 5 feet lengths. However substantial changes in water chemistry can take place in bottom sediment pore water over distances much less than 3 feet. Therefore a smaller sampler is needed for this environment.

Thus a pore water sampler is needed that is small in size less than 3 feet is constructed mainly of plastic or polymers does not need to be refilled and can counter the potential blockage effects of sheet debris.

It is an aspect of the present invention to provide a stand alone apparatus that can be used for long term monitoring of solutes in pore water beneath surface water.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus for pore water sampling that is self filling with ambient formation water and that does not need to be refilled with deionized deoxygenated water after each sample is collected.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus for pore water sampling that is constructed of plastics rather than stainless steel.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide an apparatus for pore water sampling that can reduce or eliminate blockage of the outer surface of the apparatus.

These and other aspects are achieved according to the present invention by providing a method and apparatus for pore water sampling. A pore water sampler with a pre packed screen is buried in bottom sediment beneath surface water in an area where pore water contamination is known or suspected. Tubing connects the sampler to the shore. The sampler is constructed almost entirely of plastic and polymers making it substantially less expensive than prepacked screens constructed of stainless steel. The sampler also has no stainless steel in intimate contact with water movement minimizing potential chemical effects that could be associated with stainless steel well screens. The outer layer of the sampler is a rigid plastic pipe having perforations throughout the entire outer layer. A raised framework surrounding each perforation counters the potential blockage effects of sheet debris such as leaf matter.

According to an embodiment of the present invention there is provided a device for sampling water including an elongated tubular outer body having a grid framework forming a plurality of perforations throughout the entire outer body the grid framework surrounding the perforations having raised and beveled sides. An elongated perforated tubular inner body is contained within the outer body. The inner body has a diameter less than a diameter of the outer body which forms a cavity between the inner body and the outer body. The cavity is filled with an inert granular filler material. A first outer cap and a second outer cap cover respective ends of the outer body. A coupling is placed in fluid communication with the inner body and protrudes through the first outer cap. A tube is attached to the coupling protruding through the first outer cap to transfer a water sample to a sample collection site.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of sampling pore water including providing a pore water sampler having an elongated tubular outer body and an elongated tubular inner body within the outer body. The inner body has a diameter smaller than a diameter of the outer body to form a cavity between the inner body and the outer body. The cavity is filled with an inert granular filler material. A tube is connected to the sampler. A grid framework is provided on both the outer body and the inner body. The grid framework forms a plurality of perforations throughout an entire surface of the outer body and the inner body. The grid framework has raised and beveled sides that prevent blockage of the sampler by detritus as a sample is being collected. The sampler is buried in bottom sediment below surface water at a sample location and the tube is extended to a sample collection site. A vacuum is applied to the sampler to extract a sample through the tube to the sample collection site. The sampler is left buried under the surface water and subsequent samples are collected as needed from the same sample location.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of assembling a pore water sampler including providing an elongated tubular outer body an elongated tubular inner body having a diameter less than a diameter of the outer body an inner mesh an outer mesh a first inner cap a second inner cap a first outer cap a second outer cap a coupling and a tube. A grid framework is provided on both the outer body and the inner body the grid framework forming a plurality of perforations throughout an entire surface of the outer body and the inner body. The grid framework surrounding the perforations has raised and beveled sides that prevent blockage of the sampler by detritus as a sample is being collected. The inner mesh is wrapped around the inner body. The outer mesh is placed on an inner surface of the outer body. The coupling is connected to the first inner cap. The coupling has a first end and a tubing end opposite the first end. The tubing end of the coupling protrudes through an aperture in a top of the first inner cap. A first end of the inner body is covered with the first inner cap and a second end of the inner body is covered with the second inner cap to seal the inner body. The sealed inner body is inserted into a center of the outer body. An end of the outer body opposite the coupling is covered with the second outer cap. A space between the inner body and the outer body is filled with an inert granular filler material. A second end of the outer body opposite the first end is covered with the second outer cap. The tubing end of the coupling protrudes through an aperture in a top of the first outer cap. The tube is connected to the tubing end of the coupling and extended to a sample collection site.

A bulkhead union also see is inserted through an opening in a first inner cap . A nut see is screwed onto the bulkhead union to attach the bulkhead union to the first inner cap . Referring to the first inner cap covers one end of the inner perforated pipe and may be held in place by a fastener such as a zip tie. A second inner cap see covers the other end of the inner perforated pipe . A first outer cap covers the outer perforated pipe at the end adjacent to the bulkhead union . A second outer cap covers an end of the outer perforated pipe opposite the bulkhead union . The first outer cap has an opening through which the bulkhead union extends.

Tubing see attaches to the bulkhead union by for example being pushed into the bulkhead union . Other ways of attaching the tubing are possible including using screw type fittings. The tubing extends to the shoreline. shows an end view of the pore water sampler from the end containing the bulkhead union with the first outer cap removed. In the inner perforated pipe wrapped in the second mesh extends lengthwise behind the first inner cap . An inert granular fill material such as sand is packed between the outer perforated pipe and the inner perforated pipe and is contained within the pore water sampler by the first mesh the second mesh the first outer cap and the second outer cap . The thickness of the sand pack may be varied by changing the diameters of the outer perforated pipe and the inner perforated pipe .

An example of a mesh sheet e.g. the second mesh is shown in . The first mesh and the second mesh are constructed of nylon or another inert substance such as polypropylene for example. The sizes of the mesh openings should not be larger than the grain size of the sand or granular fill material . The mesh openings can be less than 10 microns but are preferably greater than about 10 microns to reduce clogging potential. The sizes of the mesh openings should be slightly smaller than the diameters of the granular fill and the granular fill should be sized to effectively limit transmittal of particulates in the size range of the site specific deployment area. The first mesh and the second mesh can be attached to the outer perforated pipe and the inner perforated pipe respectively with fasteners such as zip ties or can simply be held in place by the granular fill .

An example of a perforated pipe e.g. the inner perforated pipe is shown in . The diameter of the outer perforated pipe ranges from about 1.5 inches to about 4 inches and the length ranges from about 0.5 feet to about 3 feet. Preferably the outer perforated pipe is approximately 2.5 inches in diameter and about 0.7 feet in length. The length of the inner perforated pipe is approximately the same as the length of the outer perforated pipe . The diameter of the inner perforated pipe ranges from about 0.2 inches to about 1.5 inches and preferably about 1.4 inches for a length of about 0.7 feet.

A close up view of a perforated pipe e.g. the outer perforated pipe is shown in . Both the outer perforated pipe and the inner perforated pipe contain perforations throughout the entire structures. The perforations are square shaped for example and can have sides ranging from about 0.01 inches to about 0.50 inches. In the embodiment shown in the perforations are about 0.015 inches by about 0.015 inches. The perforations are surrounded by a grid framework with edges that are raised and preferably beveled. A close up edge view of a pipe used to form either the outer perforated pipe or the inner perforated pipe is shown in to illustrate the raised beveled framework surrounding the perforations . The grid framework includes elongated parallel ridges also see that rise above the outer surface of the pipe to form an irregular outer surface. The irregular outer surface allows circuitous pathways of flow into the perforations to counteract the potential for leaf debris to blanket and obstruct large parts of the outer perforated pipe . The height H of the ridges may range from about 0.01 inches to about 0.2 inches. The sizes of the perforations and the heights and shapes of the ridges in the outer perforated pipe and the inner perforated pipe as well as the mesh sizes of the first mesh and the second mesh may vary as desired.

Rather than using the inner perforated pipe a perforated tube surrounded by the second mesh may be used as the inner screen as shown in . The sizes of the perforations in the perforated tube may vary as desired. The perforations of the perforated tube can be as small as will allow effective transmission of water and as large as will maintain structural integrity of the tube. The perforations of the tube shown in are approximately 0.1 inches in diameter. In the embodiment shown in the perforated tube attaches to one end of the bulkhead union and the bulkhead union attaches to the first outer cap . The diameter of the perforated tube is about inch.

Following deployment a peristaltic or other type of suction pump not shown is attached to the tubing onshore and the sampler is pumped slowly to develop the sand pack . The suction induces water flow into the sampler through the sand pack . The outer perforated pipe limits potential blockage by sheet debris such as leaf matter. The sand pack reduces the amount of fine grained material pumped from the sampler . After acceptably non turbid water is observed in the pump discharge the sampler is left in place until the deployment disturbance re equilibrates to ambient conditions. At the time the sample is collected the peristaltic pump is attached to the tubing at the shore and used to extract a sample by first purging the blank tubing typically about a few hundred milliliters of water are purged and sampling the water immediately following purging of the sampler . Following sample collection the sampler is left in place where it can be used for subsequent sampling to provide long term monitoring of the same location.

The pore water sampler is buried in bottom sediment below surface water. There is not a limit to the distance from shore for the installation of the sampler . Longer distances simply mean that more tubing will be used to extend to shore and a slightly longer pre sample purge time would be needed. Because the peristaltic pump is limited to a lift of about 18 feet to about 20 feet the discharge end of the sampler on shore should be less than about 18 feet to about 20 feet above the water surface. Deployment of the sampler in deep water may require the use of divers or other remote installation methods.

Various types of plastics may be used to construct any part of the sampler such as polyethylene polyurethane Teflon as well as other non metal materials. The nut shown in and is constructed of stainless steel but it is in a position that is distant from the flow through areas of the sampler . The nut may also be constructed of plastic.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the outer surface of the sampler may be covered with a mesh sleeve as shown in . This layering of mesh and pipe openings or perforations decreases the potential for clogging by large matter. The mesh sleeve may be constructed of flexible plastic with raised ridges as shown in the close up view of the mesh sleeve in .

The present invention has advantages over existing diffusion sampler technology. The present invention allows pore water samples to be collected from the same location indefinitely as long as sufficient time elapses between sampling events for the ambient water to return to prepumped conditions. Also there is no need to refill the sampler with any kind of water because it is self filling with ambient formation water.

The present invention also has advantages over existing prepacked well screens. The present invention does not need a standpipe that extends to the surface. Instead water is extracted from the sampler through the tubing that runs from the sampler to the shoreline where samples can be collected using the peristaltic pump without the need for a boat.

Parameters of interest in pore water investigations may be adversely affected by stainless steel. In the present invention the outer perforated pipe does not need to be constructed of stainless steel to withstand deployment abrasion. The rigid outer perforated pipe of the sampler protects the first mesh and the second mesh from abrasion. This allows less expensive construction materials to be used. The nut on the outside of the sampler that attaches the bulkhead union to the sampler can be constructed of plastic. Even if the nut is constructed of stainless steel the nut is in a position that is distant from the flow through areas of the sampler . Thus in the present invention stainless steel is not part of the sampler that is in intimate contact with sampled water.

In addition the present invention differs from existing technology in that the outer perforated pipe contains perforations throughout the entire structure. The perforations are large relative to existing technology. In addition the edges of the perforations are beveled and raised. The size of the perforations and the raised beveled borders of the perforations present an irregular outer surface that allows circuitous pathways of flow into the ports to counteract the potential for leaf debris to blanket and obstruct large parts of the outer perforated pipe . The sand pack within the outer perforated pipe further excludes organic debris from the sampler and allows the sampler to be used effectively both in the leaf litter environment of bottom sediment and in more sandy sediments.

The present invention is a stand alone pre packed pore water sampler having a small diameter tubing that connects the sampler to the shore. The sampler is constructed almost entirely of plastic and polymers making it substantially less expensive than prepacked screens constructed of stainless steel. The sampler also has no stainless steel in intimate contact with water movement minimizing potential chemical effects that can be associated with stainless steel well screens. The outer layer is a rigid plastic perforated pipe with a raised framework to counter the potential blockage effects of sheet debris such as leaf matter.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and variations of the present invention are possible without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

