---

title: Systems and methods for determining allocations for distributed multi-site contact centers
abstract: Systems and methods for allocating resources, such as contact center agents, computer servers and recorders, among geographically distributed sites are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: creating a workload forecast, such as contact volume, and resource utilization, such as average interaction time, of events for a specified time frame as if the geographically distributed sites were co-located, performing discrete event-based simulation to assign or allocate the events to the resources as if the resources were co-located, and determining recommended allocations of the resources among the geographically distributed sites based on a relative distribution of events assigned to resources at each of the geographically distributed sites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07734783&OS=07734783&RS=07734783
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07734783
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060321
---
Resource allocation and planning including the generation of schedules for employees is a complex problem for enterprises. Telephone call center resource allocation and scheduling is an example of a problem with a large number of variables. Variables include contact volume at a particular time of day available staff skills of various staff members call type e.g. new order call and customer service call and number of call queues where a call queue may be assigned a particular call type. A basic goal of call center scheduling is to minimize the cost of agents available to answer calls while maximizing service.

Traditionally call center scheduling is performed by forecasting incoming contact volumes and estimating average talk times for each time period based on past history and other measures. These values are then correlated to produce a schedule. However due to the number of variables that may affect the suitability of a schedule many schedules need to be evaluated.

Recently call centers have evolved into contact centers in which the agent s contact with the customer can be through many contact media. For example a multi contact call center may handle telephone email web callback web chat fax and voice over internet protocol. Therefore in addition to variation in the types of calls e.g. service call order call modern contact centers have the complication of variation in contact media. The variation in contact media adds complexity to the agent scheduling process.

Additional complexity results when multiple sites are involved. That is multiple geographically distributed call centers may be owned by a single organization or calls may be distributed to multiple locations dependent on whether a contact is for technical support sales etc.

Systems and methods for allocating resources e.g. contact center agents among geographically distributed sites are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises creating a workload forecast such as contact volume and average handle resolution interaction and or order purchase fulfillment time of events for a specified time frame such as hours days week months quarters and or years as if the geographically distributed sites were co located performing discrete event based simulation to assign the events to the contact center resource s as if at least a portion of the total contact center resources were co located and determining recommended allocations of the contact center resources among the geographically distributed sites based on a relative distribution of events expected forecasted simulated or assigned to contact center resources at each of the geographically distributed sites. In addition to time requirements can further include other operational constraints of the sites including for example network bandwidth.

An exemplary embodiment of a system for allocating contact support center resources such as agents servers computers databases recorders including among others TDM VoIP and or wireless recorders administrative staff customer services personnel supervisors managers marketers cross sellers supplies and other logistical resources involved in the operations of point of contact centers including contact or customer support centers back office or support centers retailing and banking centers comprises a forecasting system configured to create a workload forecast such as volume peak time low time average volume static and dynamic volume including requirements per hour including minutes and seconds day week month quarter and or year with such requirement including for example voice messenger chat email and direct contact channels of communication and average handle resolution and or transactional time forecast of events for a specified or predetermined time frame schedule and or campaign as if the geographically distributed resources or sites were co located a simulation system configured to perform discrete event based simulation to assign the events to the resource s for example contact center agents as if the resource were co located and an analysis system configured to determine recommended allocations of resources among the geographically distributed sites based on a relative distribution of events expected forecasted or simulated for the center and or assigned to resource s at each of the geographically distributed sites

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for determining recommendations for the allocation of resources such as call center agents retailers or bankers. In particular the allocation of resources can be achieved using discrete event based simulations that perform allocations on multiple distributed sites as if the resources were not distributed. Recommended allocations are based on a relative distribution e.g. percentages of events such as customer calls inquiries purchases and other transactional and operational events for each site in accordance with the resource to which the simulation assigned the events. More generally though the systems and methods of the present invention can be deployed or utilized in allocating contact support center resources such as agents servers computers databases recorders including among others TDM VoIP and or wireless recorders administrative staff customer services personnel supervisors managers marketers cross sellers supplies and other logistical resources involved in the operations of point of contact centers including contact or customer support centers back office or support centers retailing and banking centers.

An ideal system for distributing events to multiple sites would be a system that could analyze every available site for any available resource located at any of the available sites. After location of an available resource such a system would route the event to that resource regardless of that resource s geographical location. Thus although the contact center is a virtual center the system would distribute events as if the contact center were one large contact center. Such efficiency however is difficult to attain. Typically contact centers operate on preset allocations of events for a particular time frame. The equipment costs for analyzing all available sites and routing events accordingly can be very expensive. By comparison equipment costs for routing defined percentages of events is currently preferable. With preset allocations a distributed site essentially operates as an independent site that knows what volume of events to expect and thus is able to schedule staffing and other resources accordingly.

The disclosed systems for determining allocations for distributed multi site contact centers provide recommended allocations of contact center resources such as agents based on simulations that utilize virtual contact centers. Statistical information based on existing work flow management WFM data are used to create a workload forecast of events for contact volume data and average handle times. A contact volume forecast is the number of events forecast for a certain time interval. An average handle time forecast is the response time required per event. In conjunction with agent schedules and other agent rules randomly distributed contact arrival events are created based on the WFM data. A discrete event based simulation then routes the events to available agents as if they were assigned to a non distributed or virtual contact center. Recommended allocations for the various sites are then calculated based on the agents to which the events were assigned.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems have been described examples of recommended allocations are provided to explain the manner in which the scheduling and allocation of the call center agents can be achieved.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a system for distributing events according to recommended allocations of resources such as contact center agents. The system comprises one or more customer premises . The customer premise includes for example but not limited to telephones cellular phones and computing devices. Customer premises communicate with a network e.g. PSTN and or cellular that communicates with a contact center . In the contact center is shown connected through a network e.g. local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or virtual private network VPN to various sub centers and . Each sub center and has multiple contact center agents and . It should be noted that the number of sub centers and may vary according to the requirements of the contact center . Typically there will be at least two sites sub centers . Of course the number of contact center agents et al. will also vary according to the recommended allocations for each sub center . Hereafter unless two different contact center agents are discussed references to a generic contact center agent or to generic contact center agents will refer to contact center agent . Also for purposes of illustration the discussion to follow focuses on the allocation of contact center agents though the contact center resources could just as likely be servers computers databases recorders including among others TDM VoIp and or wireless recorders administrative staff customer services personnel supervisors managers marketers cross sellers supplies and other logistical resources involved in the operations of point of contact centers including contact or customer support centers back office or support centers retailing and banking centers.

Events such as a call to customer support are placed from a customer premise through the network to the contact center . The customer initiates the event with no regard as to where the contact center agent is actually located. The event is routed to the next available contact center agent by the contact center in accordance with recommended allocations provided to the contact center from an allocation system . A contact center agent utilizes computing devices not shown such as for instance desktop computers PCs or Macintosh computers that can if necessary be connected to communication devices such as a headset microphones and headphones among others.

The processing device can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU or an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the allocation system a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80x86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory as well as various other components can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processing device . Additionally memory can also include an operating system as well as instructions associated with various subsystems such as a multi site allocation recommendation system .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In this regard a nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system can be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input communication control file and data management memory management and communication control and or related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system .

When the allocation system is in operation the processing device is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the allocation system pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processing device perhaps buffered and then executed. The allocation system accesses WFM data from a WFM database through I O device . Multi site allocation recommendations are determined and made available to the contact center through a networking device .

Block shows the creation of distributed queues sub queues and distributed campaigns. A distributed campaign is an entire operation while a distributed queue includes events related to that operation. A distributed campaign could have more than one distributed queue. As a non limiting example when a distributed campaign involves a particular product a distributed queue could entail a stream of events related to that product. In block sub campaigns are created for each distributed campaign. Sub campaigns are a portion of the entire operation including sub queues and employees. Sub queues are derived from a distributed queue and are a stream of events routed to a particular sub center. An event from the sub queue is distributed to the employees or agents available to handle that event. In block for each sub campaign the sub queues skills organizations and employees are linked to that sub campaign. Finally the multi site algorithm is applied in block .

Within a distributed campaign events are routed from a distributed queue through sub queues to various sub centers and then to individual agents. Sub campaigns comprise various sub queues as input streams of events to a sub center and the contact center agents assigned to that sub center. The queues overlap with the campaigns based on agent availability and capability.

As a non limiting example distributed queue could include phone calls for customer support and the contact center agents specializing in customer support might be located at sub center and at sub center . The customer support events would be routed through sub queue to sub center and through sub queue to sub center . Further the customer support events might be directed toward different types of support issues for example installation issues and technical support issues. The sub queues could be directed toward specific types of events. Installation issues could be routed through sub queue to sub center and sub queue to sub center . Technical support issues could be routed through sub queue to sub center and sub queue to sub center . A contact center agent at each sub center would receive events related to their specific skill set. Notably a contact center agent could have multiple skill sets such that a single contact center agent could handle events related to both installation issues and technical support issues in this example. Additionally distributed queue could include phone calls for sales and the contact center agent s specializing in sales might be located at sub center . The sales events would be routed through sub queue to sub center .

Next a multi site algorithm is applied to the distributed campaign using a virtual contact center. The WFM data is used to create contact volume average interaction time forecasts and service goals in block for the distributed campaign. The forecast is for total incoming event volume and the total time it will take to handle that event volume at the distributed centralized level. The goal is to forecast the workload that is coming in to the contact center and that must be distributed to the sub centers . The forecast is processed as if the distributed campaign were a virtual non distributed campaign. A non distributed or virtual campaign assumes that all contact center agent s are in one location. The next step determines whether schedules have been set in each sub campaign. If the contact center agent s in a sub campaign have not been assigned schedules then a multi site scheduling program is executed in block see . Otherwise if scheduling is already set then the sub campaign allocations are calculated in block see as if all contact center agents are in a virtual environment. This allocation assumes that an event could be routed to any available contact center agent regardless of the actual sub center and in which that contact center agent is actually located.

A discrete event based simulation is performed to achieve allocations. Many simulations can be performed and then averaged together. The results are then analyzed in block to determine to which sub center the events were routed according to which contact center agents received the event. The results could signify that for a certain time period a particular percentage of calls were routed to the contact center agent s at sub center . For example if 17 of events go to sub center 38 of events go to sub center and the remaining events go to sub center then it would be recommended that sub center will receive 17 of the routed events and should staff accordingly.

In an alternative embodiment contact center systems may also account for scheduled training of contact center agents . In the system see additional WFM capability may include a learning component that allows a contact center manager to develop training lessons for and assign lessons to contact center agents . The learning component provides automated training processes by identifying scheduling and delivering online learning directly to contact center agent desktops. The lesson content can include recorded interactions which can be used to create a library of best practices for training agents and other personnel. Using actual interactions a contact center can develop E learning content specific to the organization. In an enhancement these training lessons can include assessments to help track and measure agent performance skill acquisition and knowledge retention.

The learning component can also deliver targeted learning sessions over a network using e mail or a hyperlink to a Web site or directly to the agent desktop. Supervisors can select the appropriate training sessions from a library of courseware or create sessions themselves using a contact editing feature. Then supervisors can assign course material and monitor completion automatically.

When creating a schedule for a multi site contact center the multi site scheduling algorithm will include training events in addition to shift assignments breaks and other preferences. Thus scheduling for multiple sites also includes the scheduling of training events for the individual agents at the individual sites. If the learning sessions are pre scheduled then the multi site scheduling algorithm and or the discrete event based simulation will take the learning sessions into account as training events. Alternatively the training events could be considered along with other events in the discrete event based simulation discussed in greater detail below.

In addition to scheduled training of contact center agents integrated workforce optimization platforms can also integrate other capabilities in support of a greater customer service strategy 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. These five segments can become part of an interwoven and interoperable solution enabling contact centers to transition from reactive cost centers to proactive information rich departments that deliver strategic value to the organization. Workforce optimization is discussed in greater detail in the U.S. patent application entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization filed Feb. 22 2006 and assigned Ser. No. 11 359 356 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

In a non limiting example of integration with other workforce optimization capabilities contact center agent allocations could be compared against actual event distribution to determine whether the allocations were satisfactory. Other integration points with workforce optimization capabilities may also be useful in context of the allocation and scheduling of contact center agents.

In an alternative embodiment training events may also be included along with events during the calculation of sub campaign allocations. Training events or learning sessions may be included along with other qualifications limiting the availability of the contact center agents .

As a non limiting example if the contact volume and average interaction time forecast indicates that between 8 00 A.M. and 9 00 A.M. the contact center expects to receive ten events that are expected to require two minutes on average then a random distribution will be created for the events during that time interval.

Block shows that contact center agent schedule events are created for changes in the contact center agent availability. Schedule events for a contact center agent could correspond to arrival meeting lunch breaks and departure among others. A contact center agent changing from one status to another is considered an agent schedule event.

Block shows that for each event the discrete event based simulation determines whether it is a contact arrival event or an agent schedule event. For the arrival of an event as shown in block the event is routed to a contact center agent . The discrete event based simulation finds an unoccupied contact center agent routes the event to the contact center agent and marks the contact center agent occupied for the duration of the event. When an event is processed the discrete event based simulation records to which contact center agent the event was routed. For an agent schedule event as shown in block the discrete event based simulation changes the contact center agent s availability status from one state to another. The contact center agent s status could be as simple as available state versus unavailable state. Of course other states could also be set dependent upon contact center requirements.

The discrete event based simulation continues until all events are processed. After all events are processed the allocations are analyzed to determine what percentage of events went to contact center agents of the respective sub centers. Even though the discrete event based simulation performed the simulation as if all contact center agents were present in a non distributed contact center the percentage distribution is calculated based on the contact center to which the contact center agents are assigned. Multiple passes of the discrete event based simulation can be performed to determine average percentages of event distribution. The average distribution can then be used for recommended allocations to the various sub centers as shown in block .

It should be noted that many available simulators are well known in the art and could be utilized to perform the discrete event based simulation . The emphasis is on the simulation rather than the simulator itself. The discrete event based simulation treats the allocation of events as if the sub centers and thus the contact center agents are not distributed.

The various sub centers may keep the recommended allocation as provided by the allocation system and adjust staff for the sub campaign according to the percentage of events expected during the time accounted for by the simulation. Additionally the sub center may adjust the staffing and re execute the allocation system for new recommendations based on the adjusted staffing. Any change to the forecast or to the contact center agents will affect the recommended allocations since the allocation system treats the distributed campaign as one contact center. An iterative process of creating recommended allocations and then sub centers adjusting the forecast and or agents allows convergence to an optimal staffing.

It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations that may be configured using software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be noted that any of the executable instructions such as those depicted functionally in the accompanying flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain or store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

