---

title: Method of providing a mobile multimedia hub
abstract: A method is provided for expanding the input and output capabilities of a mobile communications device. If a received signal should be immediately outputted, then a user of the mobile communications device selects an open interface output port for the received signal prior to receiving the signal. Upon reception, the received signal may be transmitted via the open-interface output port on the mobile communications device to an external device. If the received signal may be outputted at another time, then the user of the mobile communications device selects the open interface output port before or after receiving the signal. Upon reception, the signal may be stored as one or more files on the mobile communications device. At another time, the user may use the mobile communications device to transmit, via the open interface output port, a second signal having the one or more files to the external device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08050712&OS=08050712&RS=08050712
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08050712
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20060929
---
This invention relates to the art of hand held mobile devices and more particularly to expanding the input and output capabilities of hand held mobile devices to support a mobile multimedia hub.

Wireless communication has grown rapidly during the past several years due to new applications that utilize new wireless network capabilities. Today many mobile phones are capable of a receiving and allowing users to hear voice b receiving and displaying text messages c browsing the Internet and d storing ring tones and video clips which may have been downloaded as favorites. In addition to these features more advanced mobile phones are capable of a capturing storing and displaying images b video capture with sound and playback c downloading storing and playing back music and d allowing users to play games.

Disadvantageously the user interface on a mobile phone is very small. Illustratively a visual display of the mobile phone is typically in the range of two to three inches wide. Also a key pad used for inputting numbers in the mobile phone is only a few inches long. A directional control used to browse a menu is small. Furthermore speakers on the mobile phone are small which limits sound volume and sound quality. These user interface size limitations prevent mobile phone users from viewing listening and enjoying displayed images video with sound and games similarly as one could when watching a larger screen e.g. 21 inch television screen or listening to a larger sound system.

Also disadvantageously the available user memory capacity on a mobile phone is small e.g. 5 MB. This memory limitation prevents mobile phone users from downloading large files e.g. broadband files. Further disadvantageously mobile phones have proprietary interfaces which prevent mobile phone users from extracting a received signal for external applications.

It has been recognized in accordance with the principles of the invention that the problems of the prior art can be overcome by a mobile multimedia hub. More specifically the mobile multimedia hub assists users of mobile phones in overcoming the input and output limitations of mobile phones to support higher quality higher performance viewing and listening by a receiving via wireless communication a first signal with a mobile communications device and b transmitting via an open interface output port on the mobile communications device a second signal from the mobile communications device to an external device c wherein a user of the mobile communications device employs the mobile communications device to specify the open interface output port for the second signal.

The present invention provides an open interface communications mobile communications device handset with new functionality i.e. a Mobile Multimedia Hub.

Mobile telephone is a mobile communications device capable of wirelessly connecting to a communications network e.g. telecom network via a telephone switching network having wireless technologies that may include one or more mobile base stations e.g. base station connected to one or more mobile switches e.g. mobile switching center MSC allowing a user of mobile device to communicate with a caller e.g. caller . Mobile telephone may be operated in a given geographical area which may be a visiting area by which a subscriber roams into or the subscriber s home service area. Mobile telephone is capable of sending and receiving voice calls email short message service SMS microbrowser messages or text messaging sending and receiving high speed data e.g. 480 Mbit sec to 800 Mbit sec and high bandwidth video signals e.g. at least 800 Mbit sec.

Mobile telephone may use an air interface standard such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. not shown or any other standard or protocol which supports voice calls email SMS microbrowser messages or text messaging. Also mobile telephone may have open interface output ports e.g. open interface output port which is a new capability for mobile phones. Illustratively mobile telephone may have one or more open interface output ports such as a a short range wireless interface standard e.g. Bluetooth b a high speed wireless data interface for accessing the Internet e.g. Wi Fi based on IEEE 802.11 c a high speed wire line data interface e.g. FireWire d a high speed wire line video and voice interface e.g. Separate Video S Video port e a high speed Internet web browsing interface e.g. Universal Serial Bus USB port and or f an infra red port. Mobile telephone may be capable of multi band operation i.e. two radio access technologies.

Mobile telephone may be capable of allowing the user to specify and control which type of input should be connected to a particular output port. In one embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may have a menu screen that allows the user to a dynamically direct a received data stream or video stream to an external device via open interface output port b store the received data stream or video stream in a file or c direct the received data stream or video stream to the visual display of mobile telephone . Illustratively a real time video feed e.g. sports updates news etc. may be temporarily outputted to open interface output port e.g. the USB port or the S Video port for display on an external device instead of outputting the video feed to the small visual display of mobile telephone . In another embodiment of the invention the user of mobile telephone may be able to use a directional control of mobile telephone to select i.e. to point and click a stored video file and transmit the video to the external device via open interface output port .

Mobile telephone is capable of storing received data streams or video streams e.g. non real time video as downloaded files which may be transmitted to the external device at another time. The files may be stored in a format of the received files e.g. a .ppt file extension for PowerPoint files. In one embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may have several gigabytes of flash memory for internal storage as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. In an alternative embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may have several gigabytes of removable storage e.g. memory sticks used for camera phones USB flash drives etc.

Mobile telephone may have a set of menu screens provided via an open application programming interface API that allows the user to browse the stored contents of mobile telephone to locate and extract files stored from the high speed data and high bandwidth video audio signals received by mobile telephone . In one embodiment of the invention the open application programming interface may be a text based directory lister such as a Is command in UNIX or Linux or a dir command in DOS. In another embodiment of the invention the open application programming interface may be a graphical user interface GUI based hierarchical file system display such as Windows Explorer. The user of mobile telephone may browse the stored contents of mobile telephone and select files a via a touch screen b by pressing keys on a handset of mobile telephone or c via a voice response if mobile telephone has speech recognition capabilities.

Mobile telephone may be capable of allowing the user to manage interfaces connected to mobile telephone . Illustratively mobile telephone may recognize external devices e.g. external keypads external speakers etc. connected to mobile telephone . Also mobile telephone may allow the user to decide whether to use mobile telephone s visual display or the Mobile Multimedia Hub to display received information. Furthermore mobile telephone may be capable of managing 3party software e.g. spreadsheets photo editors etc. added to mobile telephone .

In one embodiment of the invention mobile telephone s software interface i.e. the menu screens may be implemented as an add in application on mobile telephone and operate in conjunction with existing programs resident on the mobile telephone . In an alternative embodiment of the invention the software interface may be implemented as an enhancement to an existing application on mobile telephone . In yet another embodiment of the invention the software interface may be implemented as a replacement for an existing application on mobile telephone .

In one embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may be implemented as a small light weight portable mobile telephone e.g. pocket telephone. In another embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may be implemented as a mobile telephone installed in an engine driven vehicle and supplied with current from the vehicle electrical system. In an alternative embodiment of the invention mobile telephone may be implemented as a personal digital assistance PDA device a two way pager a wireless portable media player that allows an addition of executable programs or other suitable wireless communications devices other than a laptop computer.

External device is a device capable of displaying received information e.g. data or video signals and outputting audio. External device may have a a monitor for viewing the received information b ports e.g. USB port infra red port etc. for receiving the information from other sources c an input device e.g. key board Braille pad joystick mouse scanner etc. for modifying and manipulating displayed data and d internal or external storage capacity. Also external device may have an audio input device e.g. a microphone for recording audio and audio output devices e.g. speakers for users to listen to audio.

In one embodiment of the invention external device may be implemented as a television with peripheral devices e.g. a keyboard a Braille pad a microphone a joystick etc. In another embodiment of the invention external device may be implemented as a computer with peripheral devices e.g. a scanner. In yet another embodiment of the invention external device may be implemented as a stereo system an automobile sound system or a home entertainment system.

Physical interface provides an open interface for sharing information between mobile telephone and external device . Illustratively physical interface may be implemented as a an open interface media connector e.g. a USB cable with USB connectors attached to both ends of the cable or b an antenna on mobile telephone and external device for transmitting and receiving short range wireless signals or high speed wireless data signals between mobile telephone and external device .

When mobile telephone is connected to external device via physical interface to establish the Mobile Multimedia Hub the user of mobile telephone may transmit a received high speed data signal or a received high bandwidth video audio signal from mobile telephone to external device . Illustratively if a received signal e.g. a real time video signal should be outputted immediately to an external device for viewing then prior to receiving the signal the user may use a menu screen in mobile telephone to assign open interface output port e.g. a S Video port for the signal instead of a default use of mobile telephone s visual display. Upon receiving the signal mobile telephone immediately transmits the signal through open interface output port and physical interface to an external device e.g. a high definition television in a home an office a hotel room or a vehicle etc. for immediate viewing and listening. Also the external device may store the received signal.

If the received signal e.g. a data stream carrying a PowerPoint presentation may be outputted at another time then the user of mobile telephone may select the output port of mobile telephone for transmitting the received signal before or after receiving the signal. Illustratively upon reception the signal may be stored as one or more files on mobile telephone . At another time the user may use a a first menu screen to browse mobile telephone for the stored PowerPoint presentation and b a second menu screen in mobile telephone to assign open interface output port for the stored PowerPoint presentation and to transmit the stored PowerPoint presentation through open interface output port and physical interface to the external device e.g. a desktop computer in a hotel room for viewing leisurely. Again the external device may store the received signal.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will readily be able to select mobile telephones physical interfaces and external devices appropriate for use in any particular implementation of the Mobile Multimedia Hub .

Advantageously mobile telephones may be used as small light weight storage devices for large received files. The files may be extracted viewed and modified on a larger external device at the convenience of the user. Also advantageously upon viewing storing and modifying the files on the larger external device the user may transmit the files from the external device to the mobile telephone and store them until needed or the user may send the modified files from the mobile telephone to another destination e.g. a web site. Further advantageously the addition of the open interface output ports to mobile telephones provides the capability of a higher quality of viewing and listening for users.

In step it is necessary to determine whether a signal which will be received by a mobile communications device e.g. mobile telephone should be outputted immediately or stored and outputted at another time. Illustratively in Select Destination For Received Signal is a menu screen that allows the user to a dynamically direct the signal e.g. a data stream or video stream to an external device via open interface output port b store the received signal in a file or c direct the received signal to the visual display of mobile telephone . In this context select means choosing an item from a menu or inputting information on a screen such that a processor not shown running the software in mobile telephone may react to the instruction. The processor comprises a non transitory computer readable medium.

If the test result in conditional branch point is NO indicating that the signal should be stored then control is passed to step .

In step mobile telephone stores the received signal as one or more files. Mobile telephone may have several gigabyte of flash memory for internal storage or mobile telephone may have may have several gigabyte of removable storage.

In step the user of mobile telephone browses a local file system on mobile telephone using an open application programming interface to locate and select the one or more files. The user may browse the stored contents and select the files a via a touch screen b by pressing keys on a handset of mobile telephone or c via a voice response if mobile telephone has speech recognition capabilities.

In step it is necessary to determine whether the stored one or more files should be displayed on an external device e.g. external device .

If the test result in conditional branch point is NO indicating that the stored one or more files should be displayed on mobile telephone s visual display then control is passed to step .

In step the one or more files are displayed on mobile telephone s visual display . Then control is passed to step .

If the test result in conditional branch point is YES indicating that the stored one or more files should be displayed on external device then control is passed to step .

In step the user selects an open interface output port Select Open Interface Output Port Type e.g. USB port S Video port infra red port etc. on mobile telephone for outputting the stored one or more files.

In step mobile telephone transmits the one or more files as a signal to external device via the open interface output port e.g. open interface output port and a physical interface e.g. physical interface connection to the external device. Then control is passed to step .

If the test result in conditional branch point is YES indicating that the signal should be transmitted immediately then control is passed to step .

In step it is necessary to determine whether the signal which will be received by mobile telephone should be directed to the open interface output port or directed to mobile telephone s visual display.

If the test result in conditional branch point is NO indicating that the signal should be directed to mobile telephone s visual display then control is passed to step .

In step the signal is displayed on mobile telephone s visual display . Then control is passed to step .

If the test result in conditional branch point is YES indicating that the signal should be directed to the open interface output port then control is passed to step .

In step the user employs mobile telephone to select an open interface output port Select Open Interface Output Port Type e.g. USB port S Video port infra red port etc. on mobile telephone .

In step mobile telephone transmits the signal to external device via the open interface output port e.g. open interface output port and a physical interface e.g. physical interface connection to the external device.

In step after receiving the transmitted signal external device may display the signal and or store the signal for future use by the user.

The foregoing merely illustrates the embodiments of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope.

