---

title: Source- and venue-specific inventory data processing and identification system
abstract: An inventory manager processes and assigns data from data records for a product in accordance with rule set that correspond to a source and venue associate with the product. The inventory manager may delete, modify, and create data within a data record. The data may be selectively made available for use by a venue based on the rule set. The inventory manager may include a style identification manager to determine a product style value for the venue based on the data currently available for possible use by the venue and on instructions and logic within the rule set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08055544&OS=08055544&RS=08055544
owner: Cobalt Group, Inc.
number: 08055544
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060602
---
This disclosure relates generally to the management of product goods or services inventory information and more particularly to a system for appropriately processing inventory data based on the source of the data and the venue to which information about the inventory may be made available including identifying the most granular standard product data class with which a given item of inventory should be associated using heterogeneous data about the inventory items that may vary in terms of content and format.

The embodiments of the disclosure will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the apparatus system and method of the disclosure as represented in is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of possible embodiments of the disclosure.

In some cases well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail. Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. It will also be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations.

The order of the steps or actions of the methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed may be changed as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Thus any order in the Figures or Detailed Description is for illustrative purposes only and is not meant to imply a required order unless specified to require an order.

Several aspects of the embodiments described will be illustrated as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device and or transmitted as electronic signals over a system bus or wired or wireless network. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

Referring to a block diagram is shown of one embodiment of a source and venue specific inventory data processing and identification system or system which may be substantially or completely automated. The system may be operable on a computer or server having a processor . The processor may include a general purpose device such as a 80.times.86 Pentium mark of Intel 680.times.0 microcontroller or other off the shelf microprocessor. The processor may include a special purpose processing device such as an ASIC PAL PLA PLD Field Programmable Gate Array or other customized or programmable device.

The system further includes a memory for storing computer readable instructions and data. Suitable software to assist in implementing the invention is readily provided by those of skill in the pertinent art s using the teachings presented here and programming languages and tools such as Java Pascal C C database languages APIs SDKs assembly firmware microcode and or other languages and tools. Suitable signal formats may be embodied in analog or digital form with or without error detection and or correction bits packet headers network addresses in a specific format and or other supporting data readily provided by those of skill in the pertinent art s . The memory may include static RAM dynamic RAM flash memory ROM CD ROM disk tape magnetic optical or other computer storage medium. An inventory manager may be stored in whole or in part on the memory .

In illustrative embodiments the inventory product instances managed by the system are automotive passenger vehicles cars trucks minivans SUVs etc. hereinafter vehicles which may be thought of as mass produced but highly configured products of high value. Although some aspects of the illustrative embodiment are specific to the automotive industry one skilled in the art of inventory data systems will appreciate the applicability to any industry that may process product instance data to expose standardize enhance or augment it for inventory management and display purposes among other things.

Commonly instance level data about a particular unique vehicle arrives at the system in the form of one or more vehicle data records or files hereinafter vehicle data record that correspond to each vehicle to be processed within it. Each vehicle data record may be obtained by the system in an automated or manual manner from one of multiple possible vehicle data record sources hereinafter source that have created it such as an individual vehicle owner a manufacturer a franchised or independent auto dealership a dealership vehicle data collection agent e.g. a concierge service or other type of dealer service provider or some other possessor of data about the vehicle. One or more sources may provide one or more vehicle data records to the system for one or more vehicles .

For example an entity associated with a vehicle such as a private owner or a dealership employee may serve as a source by employing a software application such as an inventory data editor that provides a manual user interface to the system in order to create and submit an initial or subsequent vehicle data record pertaining to the vehicle . In addition a feed from a source s computerized information system such as an auto dealership s computer management system dealer management system or DMS a concierge service s computer system or an auto manufacturer s OEM s computer system may also automatically send vehicle data records including one or more corresponding to the same vehicle to the system .

A vehicle data record may contain information about standard configured individualized and or distinctive aspects of its corresponding vehicle such as non universal or state dependent such as based on physical condition information that may be unique to it. For example a vehicle data record may contain various kinds of information about a new or used vehicle s attributes arranged in fields such as classification information of a taxonomic nature year make model trim descriptive text about the vehicle s equipment features amenities pricing condition and mileage and photos as well as structured codes such as standard VIN and manufacturer model option package and color codes that may need to be de coded or translated to more meaningful text in order to be more useful to shoppers and others interested in the vehicle .

The vehicle data record including both the above described information and any meta data is directly or indirectly forwarded from a source to the system over a network and using a network interface of the server . The network may include the Internet or World Wide Web or an intranet such as a LAN or WAN or any other network of communicating computerized devices having a memory. The network may include communications or networking software such as the software available from Novell Microsoft Artisoft and other vendors and may operate using TCP IP SPX IPX and other protocols over twisted pair coaxial or optical fiber cables telephone lines satellites microwave relays modulated AC power lines physical media transfer and or other data transmission wires known to those of skill in the art. The network may encompass smaller networks and or be connectable to other networks through a gateway or similar mechanism.

The server may initially filter a vehicle data record . For example initial filtering may involve vehicle data record processing that is universal to the system . Such processing may include removal of certain network transport created characters from field values modification of the case of text values and transformation of certain text values to a standard value. Among other things meta data within the vehicle data record may include source and vehicle identifying information.

 Source identifying and vehicle identifying refers to a vehicle data record being associated with identifying information about the record source and the vehicle instance which may be necessary as its data passes through certain stages or modules of the system . At necessary points a vehicle data record s data may include sufficient source and vehicle identifying information so as to enable the system to uniquely associate it with the specific source of the record and the actual vehicle instance to which these data pertain. In the United States the Vehicle Identification Number VIN commonly serves to identify a unique vehicle when it is present in a data record. Among other things a dealership assigned inventory stock number when coupled with dealership identifying information and retail owner identifying information when coupled with taxonomic vehicle label information such as year make and model may also be used to uniquely identify a vehicle in systems such as the system . Techniques for doing so are well known in the art.

Identity of the source and vehicle may be explicit in the vehicle data record when it arrives at the system or may be inferred from it by using among other things meta data in the vehicle data record . In one implementation vehicle data record meta data pertaining to the source and vehicle may be mapped within the system to internal source and vehicle specific identifiers. These system specific identifier values are then appended to the vehicle data record or its individual data elements before they pass further through the system .

The system may include a number of modules and sub modules for communicating electronically with databases resident in memory and for linking pertinent data throughout memory to a record of any given database. As discussed the memory may be resident on a single server or found across several memory devices. In one embodiment the system may be implemented as a number of modular components comprising a broad multi functional inventory management system or inventory manager based on object oriented OO software design principles and a service oriented architecture SOA . In such an embodiment the system may be implemented as a Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE system that tends to perform business processing on the server side and some presentation logic on the thin client side. In this embodiment service components may be implemented as Stateless Session Enterprise JavaBeans EJBs and among other things client presentation may be accomplished through some combination of HTML and Javascript much of it dynamically generated by JavaServer Pages JSPs . Judicious use of Java applets and Flash files may also be allowed. Import and export processes employing scripts and daemons may perform file transfers at the edges of the system in order to accommodate the system s data import and export needs.

The system includes one or more venues which are destinations that selectively receive information from a vehicle date record . Venue refers to an information destination that may be controlled or governed sponsored by one or more entities and to which some data about the vehicle may be made available for possible use. A venue includes the smallest defined destination to which customized information may be made available to one or more audiences such as people and or automated systems. Each participant in the audience may be determined to have a common trait relating to the information or object so that the audience has a status in the system and information is customized to meet the defined needs of the audience. Whether which and how a vehicle data value is actually used by the venue may be determined among other things by usage rules and data processing mechanisms of the venue . Non exhaustive examples of types of venues include websites on line or print classified vehicle listings and other software applications such as lead management and customer relationship management systems.

The inventory manager includes a vehicle processing manager may use the vehicle identifying information to associate a vehicle data record and its contents with other records for the same vehicle in order among other things to determine by means of filtering logic whether how and by which venues information within a vehicle data record may be further utilized. Subsets of vehicle processing manager functionality may be further represented by a series of sub modules responsible for different types and stages of vehicle data processing. These sub modules include a vehicle data assignment manager hereinafter assignment manager vehicle data transformation manager hereinafter transformation manager vehicle style identification manager hereinafter style identification manager and vehicle data augmentation manager hereinafter augmentation manager .

The functionality subsumed by the assignment manager pertains to determining to which venues information within a vehicle data record for a vehicle associated with a venue may be made available for possible use. The functionality subsumed by the transformation manager pertains to determining how the available vehicle data for a venue may be modified for possible use by the venue including changing values to an equivalent standard value.

The functionality subsumed by the style identification manager pertains to determining from the available vehicle data for a venue the smallest subset of all possible granular normal product classes or styles from within each of one or more product classification schemas that may serve for various reasons as internal standard classifications for the system to which a vehicle may best correspond for possible use by the venue . In the automotive passenger vehicle industry the classification of granular normal product classes sometimes referred to as base trims established by the auto maker itself may often be selected as the basis for an internal system standard style classification against which a vehicle instance s style may be determined. However the style identification manager may be embodied to determine the smallest subset of styles within which a vehicle instance falls from amongst one or more of multiple classifications employed as different system internal standards for various purposes.

Finally completing this overview of vehicle processing manager sub modules the functionality subsumed by the augmentation manager pertains to determining how the available vehicle data for a venue may based on the identified style be augmented or added to for possible use by the venue . The functioning of the vehicle processing manager and its sub modules will be discussed in greater detail below.

In order to associate multiple vehicle data records for a vehicle if initial filtering has not already standardized a vehicle s unique identifier within its associated vehicle data records the assignment manager may rely on other database tables in other data that map different unique identifiers for the same vehicle instance or utilize other techniques known in the art.

In processing one or more vehicle data records the assignment manager may at some point create update or delete a single master vehicle data record for a vehicle . The master vehicle data record may serve among other things as a representation of all data within the system for a vehicle that has been derived by applying filtering logic to its one or more associated vehicle data records in order to determine whether how and by which venues some or all of its data expressed as the values of various fields may be further utilized.

The master vehicle data record represents a logical concept utilized for ease of comprehension. In the illustrative embodiment described below in reference to the information contained within the master vehicle data record may be instantiated by one or more vehicle data objects. Along the same lines alternative embodiments employing other techniques known in the art may instantiate the concept by retaining original and or filtered versions of each vehicle data record for a vehicle and later using other logic to determine among other things whether how and by which venues the individual field values from each vehicle data record may be further utilized. A vehicle may be associated with one or more venues to which some or all of its data arranged as field values within its master vehicle data record may be made available for possible use.

The inventory manager further includes reference datasets that contain standard vehicle labeling equipment configuration and other data. The inventory manager further includes a style data that serves as an internal standard vehicle classification for the system .

The system may further include a rules engine to assist in processing vehicle data within the vehicle data record . Depending upon specific implementation needs incorporation of a rules engine may be accomplished by using available third party software components or through the development of custom software as is well known in the art. For example the specification for the Java Rule Engine Application Programming Interface API JSR 94 developed through the Java Community Process JCP program defines a Java runtime API for rule engines by providing a simple API to access a rule engine from a Java Platform Standard Edition Java SE formerly known as J2SE or a Java Platform Enterprise Edition Java EE formerly known as J2EE Java technology client. Consequently if the system is implemented as an extension of such a platform available rules engines such as Drools Fair Isaac Blaze Advisor ILOG JRules and Jess that support JSR 94 may be used. The rules engine incorporates rules from rule set . Once a vehicle data record is received the vehicle processing manager may among other things activate the rules engine or else activate the manager sub modules and to process the vehicle data in accordance with their roles.

For example when activated the assignment manager may at some point activate the rules engine that in electronic communication with the rule sets assists the assignment manager in determining which data values from the vehicle data record are to be made available within the master vehicle data record for potential use by one or more of the venues associated with the vehicle . As a consequence some values from a vehicle data record may be blocked from access by a venue that is associated with the vehicle .

Similarly the transformation manager may at some point activate the rules engine in electronic communication with the rule set to determine what modifications to make if any of values available for potential use to one or more of the venues within the master vehicle data record . Along the same lines the augmentation manager may at some point activate the rules engine to determine what values if any for certain fields such as types of reference data not contained in a vehicle data record may be made added to the master vehicle data record for potential use by one or more of the venues . In doing so the augmentation manager may rely upon the output of the style identification manager discussed below.

When activated the style identification manager may at some point activate the rules engine in electronic communication with the rule set to help determine for a venue the smallest possible subset of granular normal product classes or styles from amongst one or more system selected internal standard classifications to which the style identification manager determines the vehicle may correspond as derived from data within the master vehicle data record that is available to be used on behalf of the venue . Upon doing so the style identification manager may update a master vehicle data record with such styles to enable the vehicle processing manager with the assistance of the augmentation manager to determine the proper set or sets of reference datasets that may be made available to the venue to augment other vehicle information available to the venue . The concepts of styles and vehicle data augmentation as well as the functioning of the style identification manager is explained in more detail below and with reference to .

Some or all of the methods used by the vehicle processing manager to filter a vehicle data record may be based on one or more rules that may be utilized by the rules engine . A particular filtering method rule may apply to all vehicle data records processed by the vehicle processing manager or apply only to certain vehicle data records as determined among other things by the source of the vehicle data record and or by the venue or venues with which the vehicle data record s corresponding vehicle is associated. Among other things one or more filtering rules such as those sharing certain common characteristics for example rules that are common to one or more sources and or venues may be conveniently grouped into corresponding rule set for identification tracking and other purposes. Among other things rule set may contain instructions for how some or all of the data values within a vehicle data record may be used to create read update and or delete values of the same or other fields within a master vehicle data record for possible use by one or more venues that are associated with the vehicle .

In one embodiment a rule applicable to a source and or a venue associated vehicle may among other things be applied to its one or more corresponding vehicle data records to read or access create delete and update a master vehicle data record for the vehicle . One or more vehicle data records from one or more sources may be associated with a master vehicle data record which in order to provide data for possible use by a venue among other things may be associated with the ones that are associated with its corresponding vehicle . A venue may be associated with one or more vehicles and therefore with one or more master vehicle data records .

Rule set may place restrictions specific to a source or group of sources . One or more rules may be established that govern use of data contained in vehicle data record feeds for venue identified vehicles from an auto manufacturer hereinafter manufacturer source within a system . Venue identified refers to a vehicle being affiliated with one or more known venues to which some or all of its information may be made available for possible use. Rule set may establish filtering methods for the values of particular attribute fields such as the manufacturer model code hereinafter model code model label trim label body style type e.g. coupe sedan transmission type transmission speeds drivetrain type vehicle type e.g. car truck sports utility vehicle number of doors and manufacturer certification status within new and or used vehicle data records from a source . In one embodiment this may mean among other things that although these values are present in the master vehicle data record for a vehicle they may only be available for possible use by a subset of the venues with which the vehicle is associated.

For instance rule set may establish that the master vehicle data record may make the mileage model code drive wheels and exterior color values provided by a source available for possible use possibly after other filtering of this data only by a restricted subset of all venues with which its used vehicle is associated. This subset may consist of only those website venues sponsored either by the manufacturer that is serving as the source or by the dealer franchisees themselves. Consequently rule set may prohibit a source s values for these fields from possible use by any website venues that are sponsored by other manufacturers of which these dealers may also be franchisees. For those other venues to be potentially able to use data for these fields the values must derive if present from vehicle data records provided by a different source such as the dealership s DMS. If they are not present in an eligible feed then values for these fields may not be made available for possible use such as exposing on a Web page or further processing by these other venues .

As an example rule set s restrictions specific to a single venue or group of venues rule set may be specific to a group of manufacturer sponsored website venues such as those that a manufacturer may sponsor for its dealer franchisees. Rule set may prohibit among other things one or more values for fields within master vehicle data records made available for possible use by that manufacturer s sponsored franchisee website venues from being accessed created updated and deleted by the vehicle data records of a venue identified vehicle obtained in any feed for which the vehicle manufacturer itself is not the source . Similarly another venue specific rule set such as that established by an auto dealer sponsoring his own dealership website i.e. distinct from any manufacturer sponsored franchisee websites may among other things prohibit certain master vehicle data record values made available for possible use by that dealer sponsored website venue from being accessed created updated and deleted from the corresponding vehicle data records for which the source is not the dealership s own DMS.

For instance the rule set specific to a group of manufacturer sponsored website venues may among other things prohibit the used vehicle values for the mileage model code drive wheels and exterior color code fields made available for possible use by that manufacturer s sponsored franchisee website venues from being created updated and deleted by vehicle data records obtained in any feed for which the vehicle manufacturer itself is not the source . Similarly another venue specific rule set established for an auto dealer s own sponsored dealership website may among other things prohibit a used vehicle master vehicle data record values for drive wheels made available for possible use by that dealer sponsored website venue from being accessed created updated and deleted from the corresponding vehicle data records for which the source is not the dealership s own DMS. The functional effects of source and venue specific rule set are discussed further below in reference to .

As such in order to support making multiple versions of the value for the same attribute of a vehicle available for possible use by different venues with which the vehicle is associated as may be determined by source based and venue based filtering rules the master vehicle data record fields for an attribute may be implemented in the form of multiple source attribute pairs in which the source may vary but the attribute is the same in order to hold multiple data values for it. Various embodiments supporting this capability may be based on different techniques known in the art. In one implementation each source attribute pair may be classified as available for possible use by none some or all of the venues with which a vehicle is associated. If not modified by custom rules venue availability routing of data values within a vehicle data record may be based on system default rule set applied to specific sources or groups of sources and or specific venues or groups of venues .

In one embodiment certain one time system settings of rules applying to sources and venues may bypass the rules engine and be initialized within the vehicle data manager or the assignment manager via use of a Business Process Execution Language BEPL implementation mechanism or otherwise established by techniques known in the art. Groups of sources and venues may be conveniently identified by reference to a mapping table in other data that maps sources and venues to source or venue type classes. The default classification may be modified if need be by inclusionary and or exclusionary rules actively established by authorized system users on behalf of the sources and or the venues by means of the system configurator .

For example the assignment manager may be established with a default source availability rule specifying that all vehicle data record current i.e. after any preliminary filtering field values from a source may be made available for possible use to all vehicle associated venues . Additionally a default venue availability rule may specify that all vehicle data record current field values from all sources may be made available for possible use to a venue associated with the vehicle . In this example exceptions prohibiting a vehicle data record value from a source from being made available to a venue and prohibiting a vehicle data record value for a venue from coming from a source may be determined by active creation of exclusion based prohibition rules as determined by the sources and venues respectively.

Separately the system may use various methods to enable a venue to determine which of the available data available within the master vehicle data record to actually use. Among other things actual use may consist of exposing a data value to an audience of the venue or further processing the value for some secondary use. For example actual use may consist of a website venue exposing an available attribute value to consumers visiting it. In one embodiment the master vehicle data record may be construed as the system proxy or representation of the inventory object or actual vehicle . In such an implementation the master vehicle data record may be further processed into one or more object views or vehicle views consisting of the information for the vehicle actually accepted for use by a venue as determined by other rules associated with the venue . These rules may determine relative precedents of use for different source attribute pair identified field values for the same attribute that may be available for use by the venue . In other embodiments the data values to actually be used by a venue may be determined by applying filtering mechanisms to the master vehicle data record that apply universally to all venues to which data is furnished by the system by creating a distinct venue specific vehicle data usage record for each venue associated with a vehicle or by other methods known in the art.

One method includes storing the information about the objects in an accessible database. The information about each object is configured into predetermined convenient subsets and these subsets may be accessed independently from each other for furnishing to a venue . Rules associated with each venue are used to select subsets of the information about the objects and to provide only the selected subsets to each website venue . Rules are used a to select appropriate subsets of the information for one or more objects that are permitted to be furnished to a particular venue the compilation of the subsets into furnished information presents an object view to that venue and b to aggregate these object views into groups that meet the same object view inclusion exclusion criteria venue views and c to furnish the selected venue views to one or more venues based on each particular venue s rule. The term object view means the information furnished for an object to a particular venue and that information is customized through the use of rules. These rules for creating object views venue views and making venue views available to one or more venues may be implemented manually or in a programmed automated manner and may be based on implicit or explicit criteria. Thus data compilation into subsets and applying rules permits customization of information for each venue and its associated audience s .

In another aspect the system provides information about objects to a plurality of venues each having an associated audience s wherein certain audiences and hence venues are only permitted access to certain subsets of information about the objects and other audiences are allowed access to other subsets of information although there may be some commonality in the subsets accessed by each audience. In illustrative examples the objects are vehicles. The system includes at least one database wherein information about each object is configured into subsets and the subsets of information may be accessed independently from each other. Each venue has associated rules as discussed above and herein for furnishing specific subsets of information about appropriate objects to the various venues and their respective associated audiences.

Referring to an application layer comprising various applications that serve the managers discussed in is shown. The illustrated application layer provides a system overview of applications that may be distributed over a network. The application layer may implement specific business processes impose order on service calls and provide a high level user interface. Each application may be accessible by a universal resource locator URL the address of a controller servlet that performs requested actions often with information passed as request parameters. Among other things the application layer may include the following major components discussed below.

An Inventory Import Job Handler may incorporate the functions needed to run periodically or on demand and submit import vehicle data record feeds into the system. Its functions may be implemented in the form of Perl scripts and Crontabs with most data conveniently arriving via a file transfer protocol FTP site.

A vehicle data editor hereinafter Auto Show may be a web based application compliant with a J2EE platform architecture that provides a graphical user interface GUI for data management processes through which an entity individual such as a dealership employee owner or other interested party may among other things manually create read update and delete individual vehicle data records for a vehicle . The Auto Show may be embodied as the inventory data editor of and resident at a source . The Auto Show may associate various possible venues to which some information about the vehicle data record may potentially be made available by routing through an Inventory Administration Service discussed below. Updates to vehicle data may be routed through an Inventory Import Service described below. Additionally Auto Show may provide a mechanism for vehicle data records to be batch uploaded into the system such as in the form of a spreadsheet.

An Inventory Import Manager application may function as a pseudo service easily interfaced via hypertext transfer protocol HTTP that preprocesses certain data within a vehicle data record feed including moving media within a vehicle data record into a Media Asset Management Service MAMS that may also support more general platform media content service needs to publish the media and insert the corresponding media URL into a vehicle data file. Among other things the Inventory Import Manager application may use an Inventory Import Queue Sender object to encapsulate the responsibility for placing import data references onto the queue to which an Inventory Import Service is listening as discussed below.

The Inventory Import Manager may then pass the feed on to the Inventory Import Service where the rest of the vehicle data record associated vehicle data file processing is undertaken. The Inventory Import Manager may also accept batch data uploads from the Auto Show application such as uploaded spreadsheets. In performing these functions the Inventory Import Manager may receive vehicle datasets from a Perl script that detects a vehicle data record import feed s arrival loads associated media files and converts the complete dataset into an XML format. This application may then store the XML in a file and put the file path into a message queue.

An Inventory Ferret may provide a partial presentation layer of vehicle data that may be included in certain venues such as websites. Among other things the Inventory Ferret may return generally useful form elements search results tables and drill down detail displays in response to straightforward HTTP requests. This may be useful for website venues that need to integrate with the system while being insulated from the service layer. For example certain website venues may be hosted by external systems for which a service layer interface to the system is not available. The Inventory Ferret wraps an Inventory Search Service discussed below with a servlet interface and returns text that contains Javascript and HTML code. All actions executed by an Inventory Ferret Controller Servlet may use an Inventory Ferret Utility utility class or its subclasses to perform most of the work required by the action s process. The Inventory Ferret Utility s methods may be static enabling quick look up and execution and being unaware of any web based objects the methods are therefore relatively easier to unit test.

The text returned by the Inventory Ferret may then be suitable for inclusion within a host website s pages to form a complete web based user interface to the system s inventory search capability. Each request to the Inventory Ferret may contain an identifier for the type of output desired and the hosting venue s system identifier along with any optional configuration and search parameters. The Inventory Ferret may also enable the Auto Show vehicle data editing application to perform many of its search functions such as may be necessary to find vehicle data for updating etc.

An Inventory Viewer application may provide useful access to the system through complete web pages and also serve as a reference implementation of a user facing application that wraps the Inventory Ferret . This application may be useful for framed in or stand alone Web page solutions that present data about a vehicle .

An Inventory Export Job Handler application may incorporate the functions needed to run periodically or on demand and conduct data file extractions from the system such as may be exported via FTP. Among other things its functions may be implemented by means of Perl script and Crontab mechanisms.

A system Process Automation Tool or PAT which is an administrative application may be employed to allow a privileged system user to create delete and relate venues groups or inventories of certain vehicles sets or collections of vehicles whose information may be made available to the same venue and sources . In doing so PAT may be connected to external systems such as to business order processing systems via enterprise application integration EAI capabilities in order to access various inventory set up information venue associations and related instructions among other things.

The application layer may comprise various services that encapsulate object oriented transactions exposing methods that are defined by reusable discrete business operations. These services may be useful for applications as well as for other broader platform service components needing a finer grained control over the use of the system .

Among them the Inventory Import Service may transactionally translate feeds of vehicle data records into persistent information about vehicles for venues . The rules engine supports the functioning of the Inventory Import Service to identify the appropriate logic and sequence by which to filter data for a vehicle . Some of the Inventory Import Service s specific responsibilities may include queuing data feeds to balance loads over time and observing vehicle data record data element processing and precedence rules such as when multiple vehicle data records for the same vehicle come from the same source . Additionally the Inventory Import Service may assign transform enhance augment and standardize vehicle data so that among other things the vehicle data may be saved in a format that is optimized for quick simple and user friendly searches. The Inventory Import Service further routes individual vehicles into appropriate collections of vehicles whose information may be accessed by the same venues and publish the data for use. The rules engine may support the Inventory Import Service and the Inventory Definition Service by identifying the appropriate logic and sequence by which to filter data for a vehicle .

In doing so the Inventory Import Service provides write access to vehicle data. The Inventory Import Service may begin by taking a reference to a XML file that contains all of the import information and placing the file reference in a Java Message Service JMS message queue. A message driven bean Inventory Import Message EJB listens for messages at a queue location such as com.cobaltgroup.jms.InventoryImportQueue responds to a detected message by reading the XML file referred to by the file path written within the message and then converts the file contents into an object called an Inventory Import Feed object which the message driven bean sends on to the service s controlling program such as a Master Control Program. Among other things the Inventory Import Feed object includes the data and mappings needed to route the data import for the vehicle data record based on the source and the vehicle associated venue . This message driven bean s file descriptor controls the pool of these components and therefore may control the efficiency of queue usage and persistence layer access.

Upon receipt of the vehicle data record data contained within the Inventory Import Feed object the Inventory Import Service Master Control Program controls the flow of this data through the service s various processing steps. In doing so the Master Control Program may among other things use various utility objects to operate on the data according to certain business rules employ a rules engine for certain processing steps and guide use of a contributory Inventory Definition Service discussed below and a contributory VinDecoder Web Service before satisfying its responsibility to persist this processed data in a database within memory via a particular bean Import Vehicle Inventory EJB that supports this step. This component provides service level access to the persistence layer via a Data Access Object DAO . Transactions are controlled as Declarative Transactions and the container uses this bean for transactional atomic database operations. The component s Inventory Import DAO encapsulates database operations that alter the database records. The Inventory Import DAO uses SQL statements that reside in a property file for the Inventory Import Service deployable package. Among other things data processing stages and functional outputs of the Inventory Import Service are discussed in greater detail with reference to below.

In the illustrative embodiment a VinDecoder Web Service may support both the Inventory Import Service and the Inventory Definition Service by providing some of the vehicle data that may be derived from its Vehicle Identification Number VIN . The VindDecoder Web Service may do so by decoding the data encapsulated by certain of the VIN characters such as its year make and model among other things. Commonly VIN decoding programs may be provided by third party vendors such as R. L. Polk Co. which offers this software functionality commercially as a product whose native code is written in the C programming language. If desired to prevent widespread Java Virtual Machine JVM crashing a C language software application may be isolated away from the inventory management system application servers by wrapping the function with a Web service running on another machine and deploying it separately from the other services that rely upon it.

An Inventory Definition Service may among other things provide the Inventory Import Service with mappings to proper sets of reference data that may be used to standardize and augment data about an actual vehicle obtained from within a vehicle data record . The Inventory Definition Service does so by associating the one or more system vehicle data objects with an appropriate idealized vehicle or style from within the style data . The rules engine may be incorporated within the system to support the Inventory Definition Service to help identify the appropriate logic and sequence by which to filter data for a vehicle . Depending upon implementation needs influenced among other things by business drivers this service may associate the one or more system vehicle data objects with an appropriate idealized vehicle or style from within multiple internal idealized vehicle classifications that may serve as internal standards for the system .

The service receives an array of vehicle objects and logically associates each object with a smallest possible set of idealized vehicles from within each of the one or more internal standard idealized vehicle classifications to which the service determines the closest match using a series of specially designed logic steps that take into account various data in the object some of which may reflect the output of the VinDecoder Service . Tables within the style data may then be accessed to obtain the mappings or keys that associate these smallest possible sets of idealized vehicles to the one or more corresponding reference datasets that contain standard vehicle labeling equipment configuration and other data. The system may then use this information to standardize and augment vehicle information among other things. Certain data processing functions of this service are described in greater detail below.

Although in the illustrative embodiment both the VinDecoder and Inventory Definition applications exist primarily to serve the Inventory Import Service of the system they are also usable by external entities and therefore may be exposed as services architecturally.

Additionally the Inventory Administration Service may provide direct control of the content lifecycle and relationships within the system and therefore provide support for system administration applications such as PAT . This service provides creation update and delete access to persistent domain objects representing among other things vehicles inventories of vehicles collections of vehicles whose data may be accessed by the same venue venues and sources . In doing so the Inventory Administration Service may allow for the management of specific vehicles inventories venue data and the relationships between them enabling applications that subscribe to this service to manage the lifecycles of various domain objects within the system .

An Inventory Search Service may provide a fundamental service for the system by allowing a variety of applications to search and browse the inventory data through read only access to it. A minimal requirement is that a system venue identifier be provided with every query. The system venue identifier is mapped to one or more conveniently established collections of vehicle associated with or subscribed to the venue enabling the query to then select from the vehicle data made available to the venue for vehicles contained within the collection. Query criteria are supplied by an Inventory Search Specification that wraps the venue identifier and other allowable search parameters. Results may be returned as Vehicle Summaries. Additionally the service provides a list of Searchable Vehicle objects that capsulizes the description and count of vehicles that can be found for a given destination identifier. This is designed to assist applications that structure the search options available to a user. One example of a search option structure is drop down boxes in search forms.

From the perspective of the J2EE network platform s component layer each service is backed by a buildable deployable package. In order to reuse overlapping functions the Inventory Definition may be used as a standalone service but may also be made available to the Inventory Import and Inventory Administration services components. Applications may also be separately deployable components.

A persistence layer including memory may be common to all of the components in the system . This layer may be tasked with remembering over long time periods information such as snapshots of previous vehicle data record feeds to detect the applicability of updated data import process status vehicle inventory and venue relationships rules reference datasets and vehicle data.

Some of the application and service functions discussed above in reference to inventory manager such as the Inventory Import Service and Inventory Definition Service may be represented as supported by a functional element or module of the inventory manager referred to above as the vehicle processing manager .

Referring to a block diagram is shown of an exemplary system that illustrates vehicles venues and sponsors in an automotive vehicle retailing domain. Auto dealer Cody Montana owns the large Cody Montana s Car Ranch auto dealership in SunDance Wyo. where Cody s three automotive passenger vehicle franchises are located an Audi franchise the Audi of Wyoming store a Jaguar franchise the Wyoming Jaguar store and a Nissan franchise the SunDanceNissan store . Each of these three stores may sponsor a website which serves as a venue . Additionally Cody Montana s Car Ranch sponsors its own independent website venue www.CodysCarRanch.com for the entire Cody Montana s Car Ranch dealership.

Furthermore Audi of America sponsors a website venue www.AudiWyoming.com for Cody s Audi franchise Jaguar North America sponsors a website venue www.WyomingJaguar.com for Cody s Jaguar franchise and Nissan North America sponsors a website venue www.SunDanceNissan.com for Cody s Nissan franchise. www.AudiWyoming.com markets Cody s new Audi vehicles and all used vehicles including used Audi vehicles . www.WyomingJaguar.com markets Cody s new Jaguar vehicles and used Jaguar vehicles only. www.SunDanceNissan.com markets Cody s new Nissan vehicles and all of Cody s used vehicles including used Nissan vehicles . www.CodysCarRanch.com markets all of the dealership s franchised new vehicle brands Audi Jaguar and Nissan as well as all of the dealership s used vehicles . Although for example the same new Jaguar vehicle may be marketed on both the manufacturer sponsored www.WyomingJaguar.com website venue and Cody s own dealership sponsored www.CodysCarRanch.com website venue a field value from one or more of its vehicle data records may be appropriate for the Jaguar website venue but not for the Cody s Car Ranch website venue .

Referring to a chart illustrates the concept of source and venue based rules to determine venue data availability for the venues of . shows how rules associated with determinants may affect which field values from vehicle data records for a vehicle may be made available within a master vehicle data record . The operation of source and venue determined vehicle data record filtering rules is illustrated using the dealership example of . Audi of America may arrange for the system to process new and used vehicle data records provided by the Audi of America corporate database that encompasses Audi vehicles . As such Audi of America is a potential source to the system of vehicle data records pertaining to Cody Montana s new and used Audi vehicles . In addition all of the Audi of America sponsored Jaguar North America sponsored and Nissan North America sponsored franchisee website venues as well as Cody Montana s independently sponsored website venue may access data made available to them by the vehicle processing manager .

Illustrating source determined rules all Audi sourced used vehicle data record values including those for mileage model code drive wheels and exterior color fields e.g. fields a d in Figure C may be permitted by a default rule set to be made available within Cody s used vehicle master vehicle data records for possible use by all venues associated with all of Cody s used vehicles which in this example includes www.AudiWyoming.com www.CodysCarRanch.com and www.SundanceNissan.com .

However special or custom exclusion rules may be created that override the default rule set by prohibiting all Audi sourced vehicle data record values from being made available to venues that are sponsored by other manufacturers such as www.SundanceNissan.com for Cody s Nissan franchise. The exclusion rules may further prohibit the model code value but allowing all other values within those vehicle data records from being made available to www.CodysCarRanch.com . As can be seen in these vehicle data record values have become null with the application of these source based data value availability rules .

Therefore if vehicle data records for a Cody s used Audi vehicle from all other sources such as Cody s DMS contain for example null model code field values model code information about Cody s used Audi vehicle may become available for possible use by www.AudiWyoming.com but not by www.CodysCarRanch.com and www.SundanceNissan.com . As can be seen in the values for this field within the vehicle data record is null with the application of these source based data value availability rules and therefore a non null value for this field is not available for possible use by either the www.CodysCarRanch.com and www.SundanceNissan.com .

Rule set specific to and determined by a venue or group of venues may also be illustrated in the example of . Cody Montana s Car Ranch may have also arranged with the system for the system to process vehicle data records captured from the dealership s DMS in order to make the values for all fields within the vehicle data records of the dealership s corresponding used vehicle inventory available without modifying the default rule set for possible use in all venues associated with the Cody Montana Car Ranch dealership s used vehicles . As such this would include the www.AudiWyoming.com . However Audi of America may establish a rule set specific to all of its sponsored franchisee website venues. This rule set may prohibit vehicle data record values obtained from sources other than the Audi of America source to be made available within used Audi vehicle master vehicle data records for possible use by venues including www.AudiWyoming.com . Hence even though Cody s dealership is willing to make its DMS source values available to www.AudiWyoming.com Audi s venue determined rule set prohibits the master vehicle data record from making these values available to it for possible use.

Therefore if for some reason the Audi sourced used vehicle data records for Cody s used vehicles do not contain mileage values the Audi of America sponsored www.AudiWyoming.com may not be able to make use of this information . This is even though Cody s DMS sourced vehicle data record contains the mileage value and Cody s DMS source non overridden default rule set permits use of the value by the Audi of America sponsored venue. On the other hand if the other two website venues associated with Cody s used vehicles www.CodysCarRanch.com and www.SundanceNissan.com permit use of mileage values obtained from Cody s DMS source then the other non Audi sponsored venues may end up with more comprehensive mileage information about Cody s used Audi vehicles than the Audi of America sponsored venue www.AudiWyoming.com because the master vehicle data record contains mileage information available for use.

Further although the rule set for the Audi sponsored venue may be as stated above and the rule set for the Audi database source may permit Cody s dealership website venue to access all field values in its vehicle data records the rules for the Cody s DMS source may restrict potential use of master vehicle data record values derived from vehicle data records contained in its feeds to Cody s own sponsored www.CodysCarRanch.com and the rules for that venue may limit it to possible use of master vehicle data record values only derived from the Cody s DMS source. Consequently if for example drive wheels values e.g. front wheel drive all wheel drive are present in both the Audi sourced and the Cody s DMS sourced vehicle data records for a vehicle but the two values differ that same vehicle s drive wheels value and hence possibly any information later derived from it may end up being different in the www.AudiWyoming.com and www.CodysCarRanch.com . Cody s Car Ranch website may choose to prohibit this particular field value within vehicle data records provided by the Audi source from being made available to the venue within the master vehicle data record .

As noted among other things rule set may contain source and or venue associated instructions for transforming an available field value within a master vehicle data record . Continuing with the example above the same values for the exterior color field may be available in the vehicle data records from the Audi source and the Cody s DMS source. While the venue availability rules of www.AudiWyoming.com and www.CodysCarRanch.com permit these values from their respective sources to be made available to them within the master vehicle data record Cody s dealership sponsored venue establishes a transformation rule that may direct the master vehicle data record to populate this field for this venue with a value within a transformation look up table in other data that is mapped to the vehicle data record s exterior color value .

For instance both the Audi source and the Cody s DMS source may provide manufacturer color name value e.g. Dolphin Gray Metallic but Cody may prefer to make this field available to www.CodysCarRanch.com with the value substituted by the less pretentious text of gray metallic that has been mapped to it within the mapping table in other data . Insofar as the Nissan sponsored www.SundanceNissan.com does not employ a transformation rule for this field the exterior color value available to it for possible use remains that with which it was supplied from the Cody s DMS source.

Among other things rules employed by the augmentation manager may enable use of the available master vehicle data record field values among other things to derive the venue available values to insert in a field whose values were not present in a vehicle data record hereinafter new field . Field value derivation may for example involve applying logic and or table look ups to one or more existing field values within a vehicle data record in order to derive the value with which to populate the new field. Continuing with the example a rule set associated with www.SundanceNissan.com may guide the augmentation manager to access the value in a mileage assessment mapping table within other data that corresponds to the joint values of the vehicle year not shown in and the mileage field available to it within the master vehicle data record and to populate a new field with the mapped value. For instance such a mileage assessment mapping table may contain values reflecting empirically based vehicle mileage classifications such as low medium and high mileage. Another example may involve populating a new vehicle style field to be available to a venue that may be derived from other field values within the master vehicle data record such as the year make manufacturer model code and drive wheels fields.

From the forgoing it may be evident that one or more of the vehicle processing manager s filtering methods may be based on rule set associated with one or more venues and or sources that instruct the filtering of source identified vehicle data records of venue identified vehicles . In order to identify the proper filtering rule set appropriate to the vehicle data record the rules engine may need to identify the source of the vehicle data record and or the venue associated with the corresponding vehicle .

Methods for automatically identifying the source of a vehicle data record that arrives in an automated data feed or is otherwise captured by the system are well known in the art. For example the source information may be made available to the rules engine from meta data within the vehicle data record itself. Insofar as the vehicle data record contains vehicle identifying information the rules engine may obtain the venue information by accessing a vehicle to venue mapping table in other data such as may be populated from lists of venues that are authorized by an owner of a vehicle to receive vehicle information. The rules engine may then identify the one or more filtering rule set to apply to the vehicle data record by applying its associated source and or venue information to a source and venue rule set mapping table in other data such as may include rule set that are associated with some combination of one or more sources and one or more venues as described above.

Depending on particular implementation needs a system default or placeholder venue may be created with which all vehicles corresponding to vehicle data records entering the system are automatically associated and which may be internal to the system itself. Such an embodiment may enable the system to begin processing vehicle data records in accordance with any filtering rules or rule set that may apply to all vehicle data records from a source regardless of their associated venues if a vehicle data record is received before its corresponding vehicle has been mapped to its associated venues . Doing so may enable some or all filtering to be driven via. a rules based mechanism yet enables the filter processing to be conducted in a practical manner that is less dependent on the serial completion of certain preliminary steps and that optimizes system performance and scalability among other things.

In addition to capturing from other systems such as that of a source and then for example assigning or transforming data such as contained in a vehicle data record that help to identify and provide information about each unique product instance such as an individual vehicle many inventory management systems attempt to augment these often limited product data with richer information about the product instance that may be of interest to individuals or entities that are shopping for the product among other things. Commonly such systems contain one or more tables comprised of data representing the values of attributes or reference data usually shared by all instances of a product class such as detailed lists of features equipment and specifications. These tables may be accessed to augment available information about each instance of the product class serving in a sense as the components of a reference library within the system. Associating the proper data from the reference data tables with a product instance may be guided by the system s business logic.

In order for such systems to augment product information captured with a product instance with highly specific valid and comprehensive reference information the systems may rely upon identifying the smallest relevant set of the product classes to which the product instance may belong. Commonly the classification of the most granular normal or standard idealized abstract product classes employed by the product creator or manufacturer itself or manufacturer standard product class attains the status of a de facto product classification standard that may serve as the exact template or more general basis by which various third parties offering complementary goods and services subdivide organize and map their sets of information reference data sets pertaining to the overall product type. As such in these third party classifications the smallest standard product reference classes or units hereinafter third party reference units or reference units may often be identical to or bear an identified relationship to the manufacturer standard product class and each other.

However for various reasons different classification schemas of the abstract or idealized product classes created by one or more non manufacturer third parties to organize their reference units may better serve as the standard exact template or more general basis by which other parties may organize and map their information sets. Consequently an inventory system may select one or more of these product classifications to implement as an internal standard to which various other sets of product reference data may be mapped for different purposes. As such the discussion below that focuses on manufacturer based classifications of standard idealized product classes including their use as a standard or master key to which various third party reference units may be mapped may also apply to third party based product classifications selected as an inventory system standard. An inventory system may use product classifications of either or both types as internal standards upon which mapping of product instances to sets of relevant information is based depending upon various drivers of the system implementation.

Manufacturer standard idealized product classes and third party reference units are often identified by their own text labels or codes hereinafter identifiers that may be used by an inventory system as virtual keys to the corresponding sets of information that may be stored therein. In many cases the relationships between the identifiers for the most granular classes manufacturer standard product classes and third party reference units of the different reference data set classification systems are known or mapped. For example a third party reference unit that corresponds to one and only one manufacturer standard product class may natively re use that classification system s identifier as its own. Alternatively a third party reference unit may use a different identifier of its own that is mapped to its corresponding one or more manufacturer standard product class identifiers. Further the third party reference unit identifier may be supplemented by another identifier for example by overloading a field or associating the supplemental identifier with the reference unit identifier through business logic that serves to distinguish the particular reference attribute such as weight in pounds or photo angle whose value may be associated with one or more manufacturer standard product classes.

Commonly a system may designate the identifier set of one classification system as the standard internal identifier set to be associated with product instances and map the other identifier sets to this designated system standard or create its own standard set of identifiers corresponding to some classification of product classes and map the other identifier sets to it. Alternatively a system may not attempt to establish an internal standard for use as the master key to its reference data sets and instead simply rely upon identifying for each product instance the corresponding manufacturer standard product class and or third party reference unit identifier for each reference data set that it wishes to utilize for that product instance.

In any event assigning one or more of these identifier keys to an actual product instance enables a system to designate the corresponding class within which the instance falls within each respective classification and to associate its reference information with the product instance. Therefore for example determining the particular identifier or identifiers to associate with a vehicle product instance represents a step in enabling an inventory system such as the system to provide further value by augmenting the information initially derived from a vehicle data record from a source . However determining a product instance s appropriate reference data set manufacturer standard product class or reference unit identifier may be very difficult when it is not provided by the source of the product instance data.

The automotive industry commonly faces these challenges. Passenger vehicle manufacturers e.g. Honda of America tend to group their products into hierarchical tree structures for each model year e.g. 2006 in which the top branch root node consists of the brand or make e.g. Honda followed by internal nodes such as nameplate e.g. Civic then model e.g. Civic Sedan and then possibly trim e.g. EX and finally by the leaf node or smallest standard normal product class sometimes referred to as base trim or hereinafter style e.g. 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Automatic Transmission and Satellite Linked Navigation System each of which has a corresponding base manufacturer suggested retail price MSRP . In other words as used here the style is the most granular class within the taxonomy and in these examples designates the automotive passenger vehicle manufacturers standard product class within their classification systems. Depending upon the particular manufacturer classification system a textual label such as the sample label in the above example and or a manufacturer model code value e.g. FA1686KW for the current sample vehicle style may serve as its identifier.

Vehicles of the same style may differ in terms of certain features such as colors e.g. Royal Blue Pearl with Gray interior equipment versions e.g. upgraded leather covered steering wheel and optional equipment e.g. side spoiler or fog lights . However rather than the product hierarchy noting a distinct subclass for each of the many possible style feature permutations these permutations are commonly construed as customized versions of the vehicle that are identified by a combination of the style identifier code and codes representing the specific feature choices either as individual options or combined in options packages with pricing established by summing the style s base MSRP and the applicable MSRPs of the various customizations. For instance continuing with the above example a particular Honda vehicle may be identified as style FA1686KW with the color PT equipment upgrade LSWC and options SS and FL.

Due in part to the fact that passenger vehicles are expensive consumer items about which many different kinds of information from manufacturer and non manufacturer sources may be valued during the shopping process such as may occur on various venues a variety of companies in the automotive industry offer different kinds of reference datasets about different passenger vehicle product lines. For example reference datasets may be available for pricing information trade in valuations available optional manufacturer and aftermarket equipment safety ratings reliability ratings photos reviews etc. These reference data set providers reference units may mirror or otherwise be mapped to a given manufacturer s classification of its different vehicle styles.

Third party automotive reference data set and reference unit classifications often mirror manufacturers classifications of their different vehicle styles. However rather than re use a manufacturer s vehicle style identifier label or code hereinafter manufacturer style identifier as its corresponding reference unit s identifier label or code a third party reference data provider may create a set of proprietary reference unit identifiers and map it to the manufacturer s set of style identifiers. As such in order for an automotive inventory management system to be able to associate for possible use by a venue a particular vehicle instance with its corresponding reference unit within one or more reference datasets for which mappings between sets of manufacturer style identifiers and one or more sets of third party reference unit identifiers are available it must either receive the vehicle style identifier value within a vehicle data record such as a manufacturer invoice from a source eligible to provide data for that venue or be capable of deriving the vehicle style identifier value based on other available venue eligible data within the vehicle s master vehicle data record .

Quite often none of the vehicle data records for a vehicle contain the manufacturer style identifier value but at least some contain textual or coded information identifying the vehicle s year make nameplate and model and possibly even some other elements that may constitute part or all of the text label uniquely associated with i.e. serving as an identifier of a single style. Continuing with the previously cited example a uniquely identified such as via the Vehicle Identification Number or VIN instance of the vehicle noted above may be present in a DMS with the year 2006 make Honda and nameplate Civic . Such information in fact may be generally available.

Further such DMS based data may include other vehicle attribute information that may used to create a one to one or exclusive match with a vehicle instance s actual or true style such as trim body style and transmission type. For example a vehicle data record captured for the example vehicle instance may also contain field values indicating that it is a sedan with the EX trim level an automatic transmission and a manufacturer supplied navigation system. Collectively all of this information may be harnessed to permit an inventory system such as the system to identify the vehicle instance as matching all of the necessary and sufficient elements that uniquely characterize the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Automatic Transmission and Satellite Linked Navigation System style and therefore associate it with the corresponding manufacturer style identifier code FA1686KW to which various reference data set reference unit identifiers may be mapped.

Unique defining elements necessary and sufficient to directly establish an exclusive or exact match with its manufacturer standard product class may not exist or be known about available for or associated with a given product instance. However in cases in which the presence of one or more product attribute values or combinations of values is restricted to only a subset of all possible standard product classes this other non uniquely or inexactly identifying information about a product instance may through a process of elimination be used to narrow down the number of manufacturer standard product classes with which it may be associated to a subset of all of its potential classes possibly even to a subset consisting of a single manufacturer standard product class. Such product attributes that are not uniquely associated with a single manufacturer standard product class but alone or in combination may incrementally narrow the list of potential classes within which the product may fall are hereinafter referred to as product class indicators or indicators. 

Narrowing down the list of possible manufacturer standard product classes within which a given product instance may belong even if only to a subset containing multiple classes may be very helpful in many circumstances. For example being able to expose for a product instance reference data associated with the reference units corresponding to a smaller subset of manufacturer standard product classes may provide substantial value by limiting the range of reference data values potentially characterizing that instance. Therefore although challenging to accomplish exploiting the relationships between a product instance s known values for indicator attributes and the subsets of potential manufacturer standard product classes with which the indicator values may be associated may be a very desirable feature of an inventory management system.

In the automotive passenger vehicle industry even if one or more definitive indicator attributes exist the definitively defining attribute value or values necessary and sufficient to directly establish an exclusive match with the true style may not be known about available for or associated with a particular unique vehicle. However in many cases another known attribute value of a vehicle such as the presence of certain key equipment items or combination of such attribute values may be restricted to only a subset of all possible styles for that vehicle s make or model. In these cases a process of elimination using these known values of a vehicle may narrow down the list of possible styles to which it corresponds to a smaller subset possibly even a single style. Narrowing down the list of a vehicle s possible styles may provide value by permitting certain reference data subsets common to all of the styles on that list to be associated with the vehicle and for example their values to be exposed to consumers. For example limiting a given vehicle to a specific trim level may enable a system to reveal a great deal of accurate and distinguishing information about amenities and other features present in the vehicle.

For instance continuing with the specific vehicle example above an inventory management system may contain information about a vehicle s year 2006 make Honda model Civic Sedan but not have manufacturer model code information that may automatically associate it with a unique style. By obtaining information about the vehicle s trim level EX this particular vehicle s style may then be narrowed down from being one of the eight possible styles or base trims associated with the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan model to one of four possible styles the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Manual Transmission FA1586JW the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Manual Transmission and Satellite Linked Navigation System FA1586KW the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Automatic Transmission FA1686JW and the 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Automatic Transmission and Satellite Linked Navigation System FA1686KW . Narrowing down a particular actual vehicle s possible style to being an unknown one of the four EX trim level styles may permit valid access to subsets of reference data associated with those styles indicating that regardless of which of the four styles within which it falls the vehicle has 4 wheel disc brakes a one touch power moonroof and a remote entry system with trunk release among other things. This is equipment which is available for all styles associated with the EX trim class but not available for any styles associated with any other trims.

Further even in the absence of knowledge of the vehicle s transmission type and presence of a satellite linked navigation system certain vehicle options may be available for only one of these four styles and if the system contains data that the vehicle is in fact equipped with one of these hypothetical single style only or single style limited options the vehicle may be uniquely associated with a single style. For example only the style corresponding to model code FA1686KW 2006 Honda Civic Sedan EX with Automatic Transmission and Satellite Linked Navigation System may offer a hypothetical optional manufacturer heads up display. If the system receives data that the actual vehicle in question has that particular style restricted equipment option it may then be uniquely associated with that particular style or product class thereby permitting further inferences as to the vehicle s transmission type and satellite linked navigation system status among other things.

A vehicle data processing manager s assignment manager sub module may process and assign data from each vehicle data record for a vehicle in accordance with the rule set that correspond to the record s source and the venues associated with the vehicle and its transformation manager may transform data available to those venues within the master vehicle data record of the vehicle in accordance with a rule set corresponding to and appropriate for the venue . Upon among other things the creation modification or deletion of certain fields values available for potential use by a venue within the master vehicle data record as per above the vehicle data processing manager may then instruct the style identification manager to attempt to determine the vehicle style value for the venue based on the data currently available for possible use by the venue and on instructions and logic within a rule set corresponding to the venue . The functioning of the style identification manager is discussed in greater detail immediately below with reference to .

In accordance with a corresponding rule set the augmentation manager may then make this style value available for possible use by the venue within the master vehicle data record for the vehicle . Further the augmentation manager may use this style value to determine the corresponding reference unit by means of a style to reference unit mapping table in style data and thereby make certain reference unit mapped attribute values such as may be contained in a reference dataset available for possible use by the venue .

In general the type and order of processes used for manufacturer standard product class identification style identification in the illustrative embodiment for the automotive passenger vehicle domain for a given type of product may be determined by among other things the nature of the product classification structure the classification s relationship with the reference unit classification and the product class indicators indirect identifiers that may be present in some or all of the product instance data records. For example the structure and degree of granularity of both the manufacturer standard product and reference unit classifications the accuracy and product coverage breadth of the various sets of reference data themselves the indicators degree of presence within the product instance data records and the indicators strength of association with the standard product classes may all play a role in determining among other things the logic sequence and nature of data employed by a manufacturer standard product class identification process. Those skilled in the art will be aware of the fact that familiarity with both the classification data and typical instance data in the relevant product domain is integral to effective design of such reference unit identification processes.

Also in addition to rules that trigger the activation of style identification processing in response to changes in values within a master vehicle data record as discussed below among other things an implementation may establish other rules that trigger phase to begin based on certain system events. For example updates in memory to style data utilized by the style identification manager such as the master list of styles for a make mappings of style to reference units or the associations of different vehicle attribute values with different styles may trigger a system default rule set that instructs the vehicle processing manager to activate the style identification manager to re process available data for a master vehicle data record s venues for which no style value is available.

As noted among other things phase may begin after data within a vehicle s vehicle data record received by the system has been made available within the corresponding master vehicle data record for potential use by one or more venues after applicable processing by the assignment manager and transformation manager in accordance with appropriate rule set as described above with reference to . At this point in accordance with a venue applicable rule set the vehicle processing manager may activate the style identification manager .

Rule set may have various possible impacts on a vehicle processing manager s activation of a style identification manager . For example a rule set for a first venue may instruct the vehicle processing manager to activate the style identification manager for the first venue but a rule set for a second venue associated with the same master vehicle data record may instruct the vehicle processing manager not to activate the style identification manager for the second venue .

In another example a rule set may instruct the vehicle processing manager to activate the style identification manager for a vehicle s venue only if the values for a set of specified fields available for possible use by the venue have been changed created modified or deleted . The specified minimum set of field values may be selected for instance because they may be necessary for the style identification process to be potentially capable of sufficiently narrowing down the possible vehicle style for the venue or because they may be necessary to ensure that application of style identification logic does not place undo burdens on server processing capacities that may impede system performance among other things. Therefore a rule set may guide the vehicle processing manager to make efficient use of server data processing resources by activating the style identification manager only when its likelihood of adding value to the data available to a venue within a master vehicle data record surpasses some pre determined threshold. As such selection of a minimum set of field values of this nature may be related to the logic used by the style identification manager in a given implementation. Logic used by a style identification manager in an illustrative implementation is discussed below.

When such style identification processing occurs multiple times for a vehicle due to multiple venues with which it is associated the data available to each venue may vary and the various style rules within each venue s associated rule set may differ from those in the other venues rule set . Consequently the style values made available to different venues within a vehicle s master vehicle data record may vary depending upon the venue data and applicable rule set .

In this implementation among other things the default rule set establishes a style identification pre condition that values for the year and make fields must be available to the venue within the vehicle s master vehicle data record . Among other things doing so reduces the number of tables and amount of data that must be traversed by the style identification manager in style data as it operates thereby improving system performance and making more efficient use of processing and memory resources in server . The vehicle data processing manager verifies that this pre condition is met prior to activating the style identification manager to begin processing venue data by means of its style identification logic.

Additionally it has been previously determined within the circumstances of the implementation that both a vehicle s model code value and its taxonomic classification values i.e. which trim of which model of which year for a given make may be strongly associated with styles that are themselves strongly associated with reference units corresponding to the reference datasets of interest. Also it has been previously determined that of these two types of information a style identification process algorithm that first examines the model code value is the generally preferable approach and therefore is selected as the default first step in the absence of overriding rule set instructions to the contrary. Embodiments for other implementations in this domain may elect to begin with taxonomic classification or employ alternative style identification strategies that attempt to harness other types of information in addition to or instead of model code and taxonomic classification such as by beginning with decoded VIN based groupings that may be associated with vehicle styles. Further in this sample embodiment the implementation of only one of multiple possible venue associated rule set is described using for ease of explication the triggering event of initial creation within the system of a master vehicle data record for a vehicle associated with a venue based upon receipt of a vehicle data record for the vehicle .

Upon initiation of the style identification manager the style identification manager may determine whether its specific style identification rules for the venue if any instruct the style identification manager to first begin the style identification process by model code matching i.e. attempting to match a vehicle s model code value with one or more style values that may be mapped to it in style data . In the illustrative implementation the style identification manager defaults to beginning with the model code matching branch of the algorithm in the absence of specific instructions to the contrary within the rule set .

If the style identification manager initiates style identification efforts for the vehicle s venue by model code matching a process wherein it first attempts to use the model code value that may be available to the venue in the master vehicle data record to search for an associated style in style data the style identification manager determines whether a model code value is available to the venue . If such a value is present process is invoked. If a model code value is not present or if the operative rule set instructs it not to begin style identification efforts by means of model code matching the style identification manager determines whether the operative rule set utilizes a taxonomic classification based style identification process an approach that searches for one or more styles that may be associated with the vehicle s taxonomic classification based on available data values. Again in the sample implementation the default rule permits a taxonomic classification based style identification process to be used. If this default rule is not overridden process is invoked. If this default rule is overridden and a taxonomic classification based style identification process is not permitted the style identification manager exits vehicle style identification processing for the venue within its master vehicle data record and informs the vehicle processing manager of that status.

Style candidate lists serve in essence as temporary containers for the style processing step results of certain identified algorithmic branches that may be construed as nominating and then pruning the list of styles to which the vehicle may possibly correspond for a venue . In this embodiment two different style candidate lists are distinguished in order to contain the temporary results of two different style identification approaches that may be employed for the same set of vehicle venue available data and then compared to determine the best style values to be output by the style identification manager . Style candidate lists SLC and SLC are further discussed below with reference to and .

If after querying the list the style identification manager finds that it contains more than one matching style then it invokes the process . If the list does not contain more than one style then the style identification manager determines if the list contains zero styles. If the list is empty contains zero matching styles then process is invoked. If the list is not empty in other words contains exactly one matching style then process is invoked

If the current version of the style candidate list contains exactly one style then the process retains the one style and proceeds to process . If not then the style identification manager accesses style data to determine which styles populating the current list have the same combination of transmission type e.g. automatic manual and drivetrain type e.g. front wheel drive rear wheel drive all wheel drive values that characterizes the vehicle and updates the candidate list to a more current version containing only those matching styles.

The style identification manager then queries the list to see if it has been updated. If not i.e. no matching styles were found or an actual transmission drivetrain combination value was not available for the vehicle then it proceeds to step . If the list has been updated then it determines whether the attempt to match on the transmission drivetrain combination value succeeded in reducing the list to a single style. If so then the process retains the current version of the list and proceeds to process . On the other hand if the current version of the list contains more than one style then the process proceeds to step .

As noted above step is invoked when no styles within the candidate list matched the vehicle s transmission drivetrain combination value or an actual transmission drivetrain combination value was not available for the vehicle . Step represents an attempt to reduce the relatively high hurdle posed in of identifying potentially corresponding styles by matching on both the transmission and drivetrain values. Of special note as elsewhere in the processes employed by the style identification manager the logic here reflects the fruits of a domain specific yield analysis of the different style distinguishing attribute values in style data and the available attribute values in the population of vehicles to be processed by the sample implementation of system . Based on this analysis in the current embodiment the style identification algorithm proceeds next by attempting to reduce the candidate list s number of possibly corresponding styles for the vehicle by matching on different indicators depending upon the vehicle s vehicle type attribute value.

If the vehicle s vehicle type is a car or wagon then the style identification manager accesses style data to determine which styles populating the current list have the same transmission type value as the vehicle . If vehicle type is something other than a car or wagon then it accesses style data to determine which styles populating the current list have the same drivetrain value as the vehicle . In the uncommon event that a vehicle type value is unavailable for the vehicle based on an analysis of the base rates of vehicles processed by the sample system implementation under default rules the vehicle is assumed to be a car or wagon. As with other logic employed by the style identification manager in the illustrative embodiment venue specific rules may modify such logic and in alternative implementations different system defaults of this nature may be employed based upon vehicle population specific analyses.

If after searching for a match on transmission type an updated candidate list is returned that contains only one style then the process retains the current version of the list and proceeds to process . If not then the style identification manager proceeds to . Similarly if after searching in style data for a match on drivetrain type an updated candidate list is returned that contains only one style then the process retains the current version of the list and proceeds to process . If not then the style identification manager proceeds to .

Finally the style identification manager accesses style data to determine which styles populating the current list have the same value for number of doors as the vehicle . Regardless of whether the style candidate list is updated as a result as well as the number of remaining styles populating it after this step the current list is retained and the style identification manager proceeds to process .

The style identification manager initiates process by initializing a new style candidate list SLC in memory and accessing style data to find the set of styles jointly matching the primary year make model and trim designation values available to the vehicle s venue . The primary values represent the values derived for these attributes by the transformation manager using default rules ordinarily optimized for determining them by decoding the respective information embedded in the VIN or if that is unsuccessful by looking up the corresponding system values for the unstructured text values made available to the venue within the vehicle data record . If one or more matching styles are found it populates the SCL with that set styles and retaining it invokes process . Ordinarily in this state the list would represent the smallest and most accurate set of taxonomically based candidate styles for the vehicle because the trim node in the taxonomy represents the next smallest product class falling just above the style class in the tree hierarchy.

If no matching styles are found the SCL remains empty and the style identification manager accesses style data to find the set of styles jointly matching the primary year make and model values available to the vehicle s venue . In essence this constitutes an attempt to identify a set of at least some style candidates based upon the broader product class represented by the model node in the taxonomy. If one or more matching styles are found it populates the SCL with that set of styles and retaining it invokes process .

If no matching styles are found the SCL remains empty and the style identification manager prompts the vehicle processing manager to instruct the transformation manager to attempt to derive an alternative to the primary model designation associated with the year and make for the venue . The intent here is to invoke a supplementation of the ordinary model identification logic employed by the transformation manager at those usually infrequent times when its derived primary model designation proves ineffective in retrieving an associated set of styles. This may occur when VIN decoding based model identification fails for example due to the absence of a venue available VIN erroneously omitted from a vehicle data record or not available to the source and the transformation manager s back up default logic of directly mapping model from the unstructured text label is also unsuccessful. Although the text label available to the venue may suffice as a label when used by a venue it may not exactly match the system s textual designation of the model value due to misspellings abbreviations or overloaded data elements in source systems among other things. For example the available model label value may be Pathfinder Armada when in fact the true model name is Armada. 

Consequently the transformation manager may attempt to match the available text label to a special list of common aliases for standard model labels maintained for the system in other data and if successful may return a derived alternative standard model value to the venue that the style identification manager may then be alerted to make use of by the vehicle processing manager . In the illustrative embodiment this anti aliasing occurs on an individual basis triggered by the style identification manager because in this system implementation the failure of primary model values to yield a set of styles is a relatively rare occurrence and routine attempts by the transformation manager to derive alternative model values for a venue in advance of style identification processing would prove to be wasteful of server resources.

In this regard it may be noted that in this embodiment no effort is made to anti alias make and trim designations because ordinary system filtering e.g. text case standardization removal of hyphens and other special characters rectifies a sufficient percentage of errors and standardizes a sufficient degree of unstructured text data variation for the needs of the implementation. Other embodiments may elect to anti alias make and trim designations and or to have the transformation manager conduct some or all anti aliasing on a routine basis based on particular implementation needs and drivers.

If the style identification manager determines that an alternative model designation has been found then it accesses style data to find the set of styles jointly matching the year make alternative model and trim designation values. In essence step repeats step now that a standard model designation is available to the venue that may enable the style identification manager to return to the trim node of the taxonomy to search for the taxonomically closest relevant set of styles to which the vehicle may correspond. If one or more matching styles are found it populates the SCL with that set styles and retaining it invokes process .

If no matching styles are found the SCL remains empty and the style identification manager accesses style data to find the set of styles jointly matching the year make and alternative model values available to the vehicle s venue . If one or more matching styles are found it populates the SCL with that set of styles and retaining it invokes process . However if there are no matching set of styles then the style identification manager returns the SCL in its empty i.e. the list contains zero styles state to process because all reasonable taxonomically based style nomination efforts have now been exhausted.

In addition to the single style value the style identification manager also returns an identification status value of exact indicating that the provided style value represents a maximally precise algorithmic resolution of a single style from amongst one or more nominated candidates. As initiated here from process the existence of a single candidate derived purely by matching a style to the available model code creates ipso facto an identification status of exact. As initiated from process the set of more than one candidate was successfully winnowed to a single candidate by retaining only those styles sharing the examined indicator attributes. Having passed these values to the vehicle processing manager the style identification manager may exit the process .

If the SCL does not contain exactly one style then the style identification manager retains the current version of the SCL containing either zero or many styles and proceeds to process described above. In this eventuality the attempt to limit the list to a single candidate by retaining only those styles sharing the examined indicator attributes was unsuccessful. In essence the style identification algorithm now attempts the secondary approach of seeking candidates by the taxonomic classification alternative in an effort to either obtain a single style exact identification or to derive another set of candidate styles that can be cross referenced with that derived from model code and indicator matching described in greater detail with reference to below .

Upon the conclusion of process the style identification manager may examine the returned SCL to determine whether an exact identification has occurred as a result of the taxonomic classification based style nomination approach. If so then the value of the list s single style is passed to the vehicle processing manager along with an identification status value of exact and the process exits. In essence the logic favors a single style nominated by the secondary approach over being forced to elevate one style over others nominated by the same primary model code based approach. This reflects basic confidence in the accuracy of either approach as well as the implementation s assessed benefits in terms of the needs of the inventory manager of a definitive style identification over an inherently imprecise resolution among multiple alternatives. If the taxonomic approach of process does not return a SCL containing only one style then the style identification manager examines the contents of both SCL and SCL in order to choose among the alternatives. If both lists are empty i.e. each list contains zero styles then it returns a null style value to the vehicle processing manager along with an identification status value of unidentified and exits the process having been unable by either the model code or taxonomic classification based approaches to create a candidate set of one or more styles.

If both lists are not empty then the style identification manager examines the relative status of both lists to first determine whether the SCL is empty as a result of unsuccessful model code based style nominating but SCL contains more than one style based on taxonomic based candidate nomination. If so then it invokes process and passes it SCL in an effort to determine whether indicator based matching may reduce the number of candidate styles present on it that were generated by its taxonomic based approach. In this case process proceeds as described above but works solely on SCL. Upon the completion of process the SCL is examined to determine whether indicator based matching reduced it to a single style. If so then the style identification manager returns that style value to the vehicle processing manager along with an identification status value of exact and exits the process.

If not then it is unable to make an exact identification and in order to achieve some level of style identification may only select a style from the two or more styles on SCL that meets some criterion established by the needs of the implementation. In the current embodiment the style identification manager selects the style within the list that is most basic or least well equipped because auto dealers and other entities controlling vehicles managed by the inventory manager prefer to err on the side of under rather than over representing the equipment and features of their vehicles . This decision is an understandable one given the existence of fairly stringent consumer protection laws in the automotive retail industry that for example may penalize dealers if they represent a vehicle as having a better level of equipment than present in the actual vehicle. Consequently in the illustrative embodiment this regulatory risk is managed by selecting the most basic style in the list as determined by the corresponding base trim with the lowest manufacturer list price MSRP and returning it along with an identification status value of inexact to the vehicle processing manager . This status value may then be used by other parts of the inventory manager to mediate how data associated with the identified style may be interpreted by venue logic for example by triggering special accompanying disclaimer language when the venue elects to make use of reference datasets associated with the inexactly identified style value.

In the event that the joint condition of SCL being empty and SCL containing more than one style is not met then the style identification manager determines whether SCL contains more than one style and SCL is empty. If so then it employs the same method of selecting the most basic style in the SCL and returning it along with an identification status value of inexact to the vehicle processing manager and then exiting the process . If not in other words both lists contain more than one style then the style identification manager initializes a third style candidate list shared in memory and populates it with those styles that are common to found in both lists.

The style identification manager then determines whether the list shared is empty meaning that there is no overlap in styles present in model code indicator based SCL and taxonomic classification based SCL. If list shared is empty then it selects the most basic style present in SCL and returns it along with an identification status value of inexact to the vehicle processing manager and then exits the process . In essence this logic is based within the illustrative embodiment on a greater confidence in candidates emerging from the model code based nomination approach than from the taxonomic classification based approach. Again this preference reflects an assessment of a number of factors in the implementation such as varying data quality timeliness and coverage within vehicle data records from different sources within style data and within other data which includes aliasing data discussed above. As such choosing to default to inexact identifications based on SCL rather than SCL represents the needs of one implementation scenario and the circumstances of different implementations may impel different logic.

If on the other hand the style identification manager determines that the style candidate list shared is not empty then it selects the style within the list shared that is most basic returning it and an identification status value of inexact to the vehicle processing manager and then exits the process . In essence the selection of this logic reflects an increased confidence in the list of candidate styles resulting from both nomination approaches and represents a more precise albeit still inexact effort to select the most basic style from a narrower list and therefore be less likely to excessively under represent the vehicle for the venue .

In sum optimizing the precision whereby a standard granular product class is identified making the inference rules clear with regard to confidence in different kinds and sources of data and establishing clear mechanisms for erring towards under or over representation offers substantial value to the users of such a system . Insofar as much product including automotive passenger vehicle information is in the form of unstructured text identifying a single style even inexactly often provides access to a substantial body of reference information that is not available in the form of structured normalized data that might otherwise be mapped in a relational schema to sets of multiple product instances. Consequently substantial amounts of product information especially media are grouped at the standard product class or style level of granularity and their presence cannot be mapped to product instances such as vehicles when those styles are not resolved below certain levels.

Having derived from the above described operation of the style identification manager a style value and accompanying identification status value for a vehicle s venue the vehicle processing manager may now directly populate these fields within a master vehicle data record or prompt the augmentation manager to do so. Once this has occurred operative rule set may be activated that instruct the augmentation manager to make various new information available for possible use by venues among other things by using the style identifier as a key to the appropriate data subsets within reference datasets . In doing so the augmentation manager may populate new data fields often including blocks of unstructured text or media in a vehicle s venue . Such information may prove to be very valuable to audiences accessing various venues such as automobile shoppers.

One type of augmentation of vehicle data that may be made available for possible use by a venue is the addition of unstructured brand specific information and marketing language that may co exist with generic structured data derived from vehicle data records possible through look ups undertaken by the transformation manager .

For example AudiUSA may have certain goals for all of its AudiUSA sponsored franchise websites including the website for a fictitious Audi of Wyoming franchise. One of the goals for this particular venue might be brand differentiation via marketing oriented vehicle descriptions that consistently employ brand specific vehicle descriptors such as the Audi FrontTrak term for its front wheel drive system. In order to accomplish this the augmentation manager may be instructed by certain rules within the venue corresponding rule set by which to employ the style value for a given Audi vehicle on the lot in order to access the appropriate subset of an Audi specific reference dataset that features terminology describing the drive wheels system for this vehicle style as FrontTrak. 

On the other hand an individual dealer may have different goals for a separately branded and controlled website featuring brands from multiple franchises. Continuing with the example above Cody Montana the owner of the Audi of Wyoming franchise also owns Jaguar and Nissan franchises and sponsors his independent Cody s Car Ranch website venue for his dealership that features all three vehicle brands. In line with this website s goals Cody might want to provide comparable descriptors across all of these brands such as front wheel drive for all vehicles featuring that type of drive wheel system. Therefore depending upon the reference datasets available to the system Cody might require that the augmentation manager employ a different set of rules by which to associate the same given Audi vehicle through its style identifier to a different reference dataset consisting of generic descriptors in which for example the value associated with this vehicle s drive wheel system is front wheel drive. Consequently visitors viewing Cody s Audi inventory on the Audi of Wyoming website might see this unique vehicle s drive wheels system described as FrontTrak while visitors to Cody s independent Cody s Car Ranch website might see this same unique vehicle s drive wheels system described as front wheel drive. 

While specific embodiments and applications of the disclosure have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the precise configuration and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those of skill in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and systems of the disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

