---

title: Structural batteries and components thereof
abstract: A structural battery includes an anode, cathode and electrolyte which, taken collectively, have sufficient mechanical strength to allow the battery to be used as a structural component of an article of manufacture. The combined anode, cathode and electrolyte have a stiffness between 10 MPa-1000 GPa, and in certain instances have a stiffness between 50 MPa-100 GPa. Also disclosed are solid electrolytes which may be used in structural batteries. The electrolytes are comprised of salts dissolved in a solvent such as a body of polymeric material. The electrolyte has good ionic conductivity and good mechanical properties. The solid electrolyte may be comprised of a body of uncrosslinked polymer or an at least partially crosslinked polymer such as a multifunctional polymer having segments comprised of linear resins and segments comprised of crosslinking resins. Also disclosed are methods for manufacturing the structural batteries.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07855017&OS=07855017&RS=07855017
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07855017
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061109
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 735 999 filed Nov. 9 2005 entitled Structural Composite Battery. 

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates generally to batteries which operate to store electrical energy. More specifically the invention relates to batteries which are configured to function as structural elements of devices in which they are incorporated. In specific instances the invention relates to particular components of structural batteries such as electrodes and electrolytes and to methods for their manufacture.

Batteries are electrochemical devices which store and release electrical energy. Batteries may include primary batteries which utilize a nonreversible chemical reaction to generate electricity and hence are one use items as well as rechargeable or storage batteries which employ a reversible chemical reaction for the generation of electricity. It is to be understood that the term battery in a strict sense refers to an electrochemical generating system comprised of a plurality of interconnected electrochemical cells each of which includes an anode cathode and electrolyte however in the context of this disclosure the term battery is used in its generic and more popular sense to refer to any electrochemical device whether comprised of a single cell or a plurality of cells.

Batteries are important power sources in a wide range of consumer industrial and military applications. A number of technologies have been developed to improve battery performance. Typically such technologies have been directed to improving battery performance by increasing power and energy density provided by the batteries. Power refers to the instantaneous rate of electrical energy which can be delivered by a battery and energy density is the total amount of energy that can be delivered per unit volume of the battery on a single charge. Since batteries are typically employed in connection with portable or otherwise mobile electronic devices it will be appreciated that the energy density of a battery is a very important parameter.

In most power applications a battery is used in combination with structural or support elements. For example cellular phones enclose a battery and other electronics in a polymer case. Unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs typically include batteries which are mounted in a polymer composite air frame. Circuit boards for a variety of electronic devices have batteries supported thereupon. In order to improve the performance of such devices efforts have been directed to improving the power and energy density of batteries so as to lessen weight and size burdens associated with incorporating them into electronic systems.

As will be explained hereinbelow the present invention departs from the conventional prior art approach to optimizing battery powered electronic systems and devices. While the present invention aims to produce batteries having good power levels and energy densities the approach of the present invention involves utilizing battery systems which function as structural elements of a device. The batteries of the present invention include components which themselves are rigid and strong hence the batteries of the present invention can function as panels columns beams pylons and other such structural elements of the articles in which they are incorporated. Since the batteries of the present invention essentially replace inert nonpower generating structural elements with power generating structures their weight and or size burden on systems in which they are incorporated is very low. For example portions of the air frame of an unmanned aerial vehicle may be fabricated from structural batteries. Hence the overall weight of the vehicle will be reduced and or the amount of electrical power carried by the vehicle can be significantly increased. It will be appreciated that similar power weight size benefits will be achieved with regard to other devices such as cellular telephones other communications equipment computers and specialized electronic devices and systems. In such devices the structural batteries of the present invention can function as circuit boards housings casings protective members and the like. Further details and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the drawings discussion and description which follow.

Disclosed herein is a battery which may be employed as a structural component of an article of manufacture. The structural battery includes an anode a cathode and an electrolyte and the stiffness of the combination of the anode cathode and electrolyte is generally at least 10 MPa and in particular between 10 MPa 1000 GPa and is in some instances between 50 MPa 100 GPa. The failure strength of the combination of the anode cathode and electrolyte is generally 1 MPa and in particular instances between 1 MPa 10 GPa and in specific instances is between 10 MPa 1 GPa. Herein stiffness refers to the general engineering property of a material that describes the amount of stress required to impart strain on the material. The ranges in system stiffness values are intended to reflect a range of loading modes including tension compression shear bending torsion and any combination of these loads. Similarly failure strength is intended to refer to the limiting stress required to cause irreversible damage to the material and is intended to reflect a range of loading modes including tension compression shear bending torsion and any combination of these loads.

In particular instances the structural battery includes a solid electrolyte having a stiffness of at least 1 MPa and in other instances the stiffness of at least one of the anode and the cathode is at least 1 MPa.

The electrolyte may in some instances have an ionic conductivity of at least 10S cm and in some instances at least 10S cm and in particular instances at least 10S cm. In certain embodiments the electrolyte is comprised of an ionic material that is contained within an uncrosslinked polymeric material or an at least partially crosslinked polymeric material and an additional liquid solvent may or may not be added. In other embodiments the electrolyte is comprised of a polyelectrolyte. In certain instances the electrolyte may include a reinforcing material therein. In some embodiments the anode and or cathode is comprised of a metal substrate coated with an ion donor and an ionic and or electronic conductive filler. The substrate may comprise expanded metal foils woven metal meshes foamed metals or bulk metals. In other embodiments at least one of the anode and cathode may comprise an electrically conductive filamentary material such as a body of carbonized fabric. Carbonized fabrics include but are not limited to carbon fibers woven carbon fiber fabric random carbon fiber fabric carbon paper carbon nanotube mat and graphite based mat.

Another aspect of the present invention comprises a solid electrolyte material which may be employed in a structural battery. The electrolyte is contained within or comprises a body of an uncrosslinked polymeric material or an at least partially crosslinked polymeric material and the electrolyte has a stiffness of at least 1 MPa and an ionic conductivity of at least 10S cm and in some instances at least 10S cm and in particular instances at least 10S cm. In a particular instance the body of polymeric material includes resins which form comb polymer segments and crosslinking monomers which form a continuous network. The linear resins may include vinyl esters such as polyethylene glycol.

The present invention includes structural batteries which as described above are batteries which include one or more active components having sufficient strength and rigidity to allow these batteries to function as structural elements in various constructions and devices. The structural batteries of the present invention in common with all batteries will include an anode a cathode and a body of electrolyte material disposed therebetween. It is a feature of the present invention that the anode cathode and electrolyte taken in combination have a stiffness which is at least 10 MPa and in specific instances between 10 MPa 1000 GPa and in some embodiments between 50 MPa 100 GPa as measured in accord with conventional practices well known in the engineering arts. In addition to the foregoing the failure strength of the combination of anode cathode and electrolyte is generally between 1 MPa 10 GPa and is in some instances between 10 MPa 1 GPa. In some typical applications the energy density of the present batteries is at least 0.1 J cc and in particular instances at least 10 J cc.

The various elements of the battery may differ in stiffness and failure strength however taken collectively some or all contribute to the strength and integrity of the battery. In specific instances the stiffness of the electrolyte is at least 1 MPa and the stiffness of the anode and or the cathode will be also at least 1 MPa.

It is to be understood that the structural batteries of the present invention may be fabricated utilizing various battery chemistries however for purposes of illustration the invention will be explained with specific reference to a lithium ion battery system although the invention is not limited to such systems. In a typical lithium ion battery lithium ions move between an anode and a cathode through a lithium ion conductive electrolyte during the discharge and charge cycle of the battery. In accord with general conventions the cathode of the battery is a source of lithium ions and the anode operates to intercalate or otherwise take up lithium ions. In the operation of a battery of this type lithium ion flow during the discharge of the battery is from the anode to the cathode while ion flow is from the cathode to the anode during the charging of the battery.

Variously configured structural lithium ion batteries may be fabricated in accord with the present invention. depicts a cross sectional view of one such battery . The battery includes a cathode which is comprised of a rigid current collector coated with a lithium donor material . The current collector may comprise an electrically conductive body such as a simple metal plate or it may comprise a metal mesh a textured body of metal an expanded body of metal a metal foam or the like. The lithium ion source may comprise lithium metal lithium alloys or compounds of lithium as is known in the art. Some compounds of lithium which may be employed include lithium transition metal oxides and lithium transition metal phosphates where the transition metal includes Mn Fe Ti V Co or Ni.

The battery of further includes an anode which in this embodiment is comprised of a layer of electrically conductive carbon fabric which can operate to intercalate lithium ions. It is to be understood that anodes of other configurations and other materials may be readily incorporated into batteries of this type. Such anodes may comprise metal bodies having appropriate materials coated onto or absorbed thereinto as well as composite materials as is known in the art.

A body of a solid electrolyte material is disposed so as to impregnate the carbon fabric anode and contact the cathode . The electrolyte is operable to conduct lithium ions between the anode and cathode and in this regard should have at least a reasonably good lithium ion conductivity. In some particular embodiments the lithium ion conductivity is at least 10S cm in other instances at least 10S cm and in particular instances at least 10S cm. As illustrated a body of glass fiber material is disposed in the electrolyte between the anode and cathode . This glass fiber material acts as a separator membrane and or as a reinforcement for the electrolyte . Other electrically insulating reinforcing fabrics can also be used as a separator membrane such as fabrics composed of polymeric fibers including aramid such as Kevlar ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene such as Spectra poly p phenylene benzobisoxazole such as Zylon nylon polyethylene polypropylene or combinations thereof. Other reinforcing materials such as mineral fibers ceramics polymers and the like may also be used as a reinforcement material to enhance the strength and rigidity of the electrolyte . These reinforcement phases can take the form of particles short chopped fibers colloids fumed particles fumed particle clusters and can include materials such as clays zeolites glasses ceramic metal oxides ion conductive ceramics and carbon based materials such as graphite carbon nanotubes or fullerenes.

The electrolyte of the present invention may also be reinforced by an interpenetrating network of structural polymer. In one particular embodiment a foamed structural polymer is formed through reaction of a dispersed foaming agent or through a supercritical carbon dioxide process or through removal of a scavengeable filler such as salt particles that are removed by an aqueous wash or through selective thermal or chemical removal of a secondary polymer phase as in the case of a block copolymer or polymer blend. The void space in the foamed polymer can then be backfilled by the electrolyte.

There are a variety of materials which may be employed as the electrolyte and one particular group of materials which may be used in the present invention comprise ion conductive polymer electrolytes. The electrolyte for the structural batteries of the present invention should be designed to balance structural and ion conduction properties and such may be accomplished by controlling the structure and composition of the polymeric material itself through the use of functionalized structural polymers block copolymers or microscale mixtures of conductive and structural materials as well as by introducing the ionic species either by doping a polymer host with an ionic material such as a lithium salt that may or may not have an additional liquid solvent or by covalently affixing the ionic material directly on the polymer host to form a polyelectrolyte. Typical routes for improving polymer structural properties such as increasing crosslink density lead directly to decreases in ion conductivity. However through appropriate design combinations of structural rigidity and ion conduction may be achieved. In some specific instances polymer electrolytes for use in the present invention include oligo oxyethylene units such as polyethylene glycols PEG . Such PEG oligomers readily dissolve lithium salts. A balance of mechanical and electrochemical properties is achieved by utilizing partially crosslinked polymer electrolyte matrices that combine linear and crosslinking resin monomers. The linear monomers will in some embodiments form comb polymers with freely mobile PEG side chains that facilitate ion conductivity while the crosslinking monomers form continuous polymer networks giving mechanical strength and stiffness to the electrolyte. Acrylated and methacrylated monomers may be employed in some embodiments as well as crosslinking monomers with multiple functional groups including but not limited to difunctional trifunctional tetrafunctional and pentafunctional crosslinking monomers.

As shown in the battery further includes leads electrically communicating respectively with the cathode and anode . It is to be understood that a plurality of cells of the type shown in may be electrically interconnected in a series parallel or mixed series parallel relationship to provide appropriate voltages and currents for specific applications. Furthermore the cell as well as assemblies thereof may be further coated with encapsulated in or otherwise protected by an appropriate material.

The batteries of the present invention are rigid units and as such are capable of functioning as structural elements in a variety of constructions. The batteries may be configured in a variety of cross sectional shapes and in various lengths. As such the batteries may comprise hollow tubes sheets plates honeycomb structures as well as more complicated shapes. For example the batteries of the present invention may be configured to form a protective casing or housing for a piece of equipment. The batteries may be configured as body panels of vehicles support frames or as components of protective devices such as helmets ballistic armor and the like.

A series of solid polymer electrolytes were synthesized in accord with the present invention. These electrolytes were prepared from monomers received from the Sartomer Company Inc. Polyethylene glycol with a molecular weight of 550 PEG 550 monoacrylate comb resin was used in all cases as a linear primary ion conducting phase. Nine difunctional and two trifunctional monomers were used as structural crosslinking components and these systems are summarized in Table 1 hereinbelow.

The difunctional monomers of systems 1 9 yield a single linear crosslink between polymer chains upon curing. For resin systems 1 5 this crosslink consists of a PEG group with a molecular weight of 200 400 or 600 as detailed in Table 1. For resin systems 6 9 this crosslink consists of two equal PEG chains on either side of a bisphenol A group where the PEG chains have either 2 5 or 15 repeat units as summarized in Table 1. Resin systems 10 and 11 are trifunctional with a trimethylpropane node that connects to three polymers through 1 TMP 3 or 5 TMP 5 units of PEG. The parenthetical notations a and m in Table 1 indicate that the monomer types were tested with acrylated a end groups or methacrylate m end groups. For each resin system a series of samples were prepared each sample having a different weight percentage of the comb versus crosslinking component. The proportions varied from 75 comb to 50 comb to 25 comb. Control samples were also prepared and they included 100 comb all PEG 550 and 0 comb no PEG 550 .

In preparing the polymer electrolytes all chemicals were handled in a glove box under dry nitrogen to prevent exposure to moisture. Lithium trifluoromethanesulfonate was dissolved directly into the monomers at 10 weight percent relative to mass of PEG in resin . Subsequently 1.5 weight percent relative to total mass of resin organic peroxide initiator Trigonox and 1.0 weight percent relative to total mass of resin dimethylaniline were added. The samples were heated in pellet shaped silicone rubber molds at 80 C. under nitrogen for 12 hours followed by a 100 C. post cure treatment for 1 hour. This produced hardened pellets of the polymer electrolyte material. The pellets were painted on both sides with quick drying silver paint and further heated to 80 C. under vacuum for 12 24 hours to remove residual solvent. The final geometry of each pellet was approximately 12.3 mm in diameter by 3 4 mm thickness.

Conductivity values for the thus prepared pellets were calculated from data collected through impedance spectroscopy over a frequency range of 10 Hz to 10Hz at 20 C. in an environmentally controlled zero humidity room. Uniaxial compression testing was carried out on the samples to evaluate their mechanical properties.

In view of the teaching and data presented herein one of skill in the art can formulate resins with a balanced combination of mechanical properties and ion conductivity to suit various battery applications. In accord with the present invention it is clear that still further improvements in performance of the electrolyte will be realized by further increasing the relative performance of the electrolyte with respect to conductivity and stiffness as indicated by the arrow in . Furthermore as mentioned above reinforcing fibers particles fabrics or the like may be added to the electrolyte resin without impeding its ion transport properties and doing so will further enhance the mechanical properties of the resin. In addition it will be appreciated that techniques utilized for the manufacture of high strength polymeric composites can be readily adapted for use in the present invention to further strengthen the polymer matrix. Such techniques can involve the use of laminated layers of multiple materials incorporation of reinforcing materials and the like. In such instances it is worth noting that for polymer matrix composites reinforced by stiff fibers matrix properties only dominate shear and interlaminar mechanical properties while tensile properties are largely governed by fiber properties so that through proper laminate and part design it will be possible to minimize the effect of matrix stiffness on global composite performance. In view of this teaching one of skill in the art can readily tailor both the electronic and physical properties of the electrolyte material for particular applications.

There are a variety of techniques which may be utilized for the preparation of structural batteries in accord with the present invention. In one instance an appropriate electrolyte resin mixture may be disposed between appropriately configured electrodes and subsequently cured to produce a rigid structural battery. In particular instances a vacuum assisted transfer molding process may be employed wherein a vacuum or low atmospheric pressure is used to draw a resin into a space between two electrodes. In other instances the battery structures may be built up by laminating electrodes onto a previously cured body of polymeric electrode material. Lamination may be enhanced by use of heat and or pressure and or appropriately conductive adhesives which adhesives may include electrolyte resin formulations. In yet other instances an electrolyte resin formulation may be impregnated into a glass cloth or other separator structure which may then be interleaved and or rolled together with sheets of anode and cathode material and subsequently cured. Such techniques are known and available in the art and are used in the fabrication of what is referred to as prepreg resin structures. Yet other techniques which are or come to be known in the art may be adapted for the fabrication of the battery systems of this invention. It is also to be understood that while the foregoing has provided a detailed description of systems which include a solid polymer electrolyte structural batteries of the present invention may also be prepared utilizing liquid gelled or other nonsolid electrolytes used in combination with relatively rigid anodes and or cathodes provided that the requisite strength is achieved.

The longevity and performance of batteries are often compromised by contact with external agents such as moisture or oxygen. Barrier materials are often incorporated into batteries to protect them from these external agents. These barrier agents can be directly incorporated into the present invention during initial fabrication or through secondary fabrication steps. Barrier materials could include metal foils or metalized polymer films which could be directly bonded to the battery during cure of the electrolyte matrix.

In view of the foregoing it is to be understood that numerous modifications and variations of the present invention may be implemented by those of skill in the art. The foregoing drawings discussion and description are illustrative of some specific embodiments but are not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. It is the following claims including all equivalents which define the scope of the invention.

