---

title: Techniques to reduce radio frequency noise
abstract: Various embodiments to reduce radio frequency noise are described. An apparatus may comprise a mobile computing device having a radio frequency noise reduction module to disable a radio frequency noise source in response to a receive active signal from a radio receiver. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07983646&OS=07983646&RS=07983646
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07983646
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061207
---
Electronic noise generated by a system device or components may impact the ability of a wireless device to receive radio frequency RF signals. For example a wireless device such as a smart phone may integrate various electronic elements into a single integrated device such as one or more wireless transceivers processors memory devices displays cameras batteries and other components and peripherals. As a result these and other elements may originate electronic noise that may interfere with an incoming RF signal and may couple with signals in the receive path of the wireless device resulting in performance degradation.

In an effort to reduce such noise layout techniques may be employed when designing the wireless device to separate sources of noise from components sensitive to such noise. In some cases RF shielding techniques may be employed within the wireless device to shield certain components of a radio subsystem from each other to prevent platform noise from coupling in the receive path. In an effort to increase user convenience and accessibility however smart phones are being implemented in ever decreasing form factors further exacerbating the effects of RF noise and making RF shielding more difficult to implement in terms of cost size and weight. Consequently there may be a substantial need for techniques to reduce RF noise in a wireless system platform or device in order to improve RF sensitivity and transceiver performance.

Various embodiments may be directed to techniques to reduce RF noise for an electronic device such as a mobile computing device. More particularly some embodiments may reduce RF noise for a wireless receiver such as a radio receiver or transceiver to improve wireless communications. The RF noise may originate from various devices components peripherals or other elements implemented for a given mobile computing device collectively referred to as system or platform noise. The system or platform noise may be sensed or perceived by the radio receiver as random or spurious noise such as narrow or broadband noise. Such random broadband noise may adversely impact the power level sensitivity of the radio receiver to receive RF signals. As such reducing such random platform noise may enhance the signal to noise ratio SNR of the radio receiver.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may comprise a radio receiver a RF noise reduction module coupled to the radio receiver and one or more RF noise sources. Examples of RF noise sources may include a digital camera display and other similar peripherals as described in more detail below. When operating the RF noise sources may create energy that potentially interferes with receiving RF signals by the radio receiver via one or more antennas. For example a reduction in radio receiver performance of 6 decibels dB may reduce the communication range of a cellular telephone by roughly fifty percent. In some cases one or more RF noise sources for a mobile computing device may collectively degrade performance of a radio receiver by as much as 10 dB or more which may drive the radio receiver out of specification and force dropped calls. Accordingly the mobile computing device may use the RF noise reduction module to implement various source suppression techniques in an attempt to reduce suppress or eliminate such interfering energy. Reducing or eliminating ambient system or platform RF noise may allow the radio receiver to better detect and receive radio signals from a given wireless network.

In one embodiment for example the radio receiver may receive a radio signal such as an incoming telephone call from a cellular network e.g. a GSM radiotelephone network . The radio receiver may send assert or enable a receive active RX active signal to the RF reduction module to indicate that the radio receiver is in operation. The RF reduction module may receive or detect the receive active signal from the radio receiver and selectively disable deactivate or otherwise terminate operations for one or more of the RF noise sources in response to the receive active signal. For example the RF reduction module may disable a liquid crystal display LCD during a voice call to increase the SNR and clarity for the received call. In addition to disabling a RF noise source or in lieu of disabling a RF noise source the RF reduction module may disable a digital clock signal or clock source for the one or more RF noise sources. Digital clock signals particularly those with severe transitions such as a square wave signal may create sufficient RF noise to force dropped calls by the radio receiver. By turning off the digital clock signals or the RF noise sources using the digital clock signals ambient RF noise may be decreased thereby effectively increasing sensitivity for the radio receiver.

In addition to shutting off operations for one or more RF noise sources the RF reduction module may use other RF noise reduction techniques to reduce or eliminate the undesired RF noise. In one embodiment for example the RF noise reduction module may be arranged to modify an interface or characteristics of an interface for a RF noise source in response to a receive active signal from a radio receiver to reduce RF noise generated by the RF noise source. For example the RF noise reduction module may modify or shift a frequency used by the RF noise source to another frequency that is outside of the radio channel used by the radio receiver. In another example the RF noise reduction module may reduce an operating voltage for the RF noise source. In yet another example the RF noise reduction module may change operating modes for the RF noise source. In still another example the RF noise reduction module may modify an operating power for the RF noise source. It may be appreciated that these are merely a few examples of the suppression techniques that may be implemented for the RF noise reduction module in an effort to modify interface behavior for a potential RF noise source to reduce or eliminate random or spurious noise. The embodiments however are not necessarily limited to these examples.

The various embodiments may provide several advantages over conventional RF noise reduction techniques. For example some embodiments may provide superior RF noise reduction leading to enhanced performance for a radio receiver. In another example some embodiments may require less RF shielding for various components of a mobile computing device. Reducing the need for RF shielding may reduce associated costs. Further reduced RF shielding may also allow more design freedom for a given mobile computing device. In yet another example some embodiments may allow a reduction in form factor for a mobile computing device since components producing RF noise may be more tightly integrated in a smaller space. Other advantages may be realized as well.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The host processor may also be coupled to various components such as a keypad a display an input output I O interface various audio visual A V devices a power supply and so forth. In some cases the host processor may further implement a digital interface to communicate digital signals between the host processor and the various coupled components. Examples of such digital signals may include without limitation digital clock signals such as from an integrated circuit IC clock source. The digital clock signal is typically a signal used to coordinate the actions of two or more circuits. The clock signal oscillates between a high and low state normally with a fifty percent duty cycle and is usually a square waveform. Circuits using the clock signal for synchronization may become active at either the rising edge or falling edge or both of the oscillating clock signal. Consequently the host processor typically delivers a clock signal to the various components coupled to the host processor in part to synchronize and control the coupled components.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. In some cases the keypad may comprise a thumbboard arranged for operation using the thumbs of a user. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more radio transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services. It may be appreciated that the term transceiver as used herein may describe a transmitter a receiver or both a transmitter and receiver.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement a RF noise reduction module arranged to reduce or eliminate RF noise originating from one or more RF noise sources. The RF noise reduction module may be implemented as part of the host processor as shown or separate from the host processor as desired for a given implementation. Further the RF noise reduction module may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software as desired for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

A RF noise source may comprise any device component peripheral or other element of the mobile computing device radiating RF noise signals that may potentially interfere with operations for transceiver . Of particular concern are those RF noise sources that use a digital signal that continuously toggles between high and low states such as digital clock signals with square or sawtooth waveforms. The edge transitions of such digital clock signals create relatively high levels of RF noise as compared to other types of signals e.g. sinusoidal waveforms . Furthermore higher frequency signals tend to create higher amounts of RF noise interference as compared to lower frequency signals. Examples of RF noise sources may include without limitation keypad display I O interface A V devices e.g. a digital camera or camcorder power supply SD cards WiFi cards SIM cards memory units and so forth. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the RF noise sources may include any other type of source of RF signals which is consistent with the described embodiments. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the RF noise reduction module may be arranged to reduce or prevent platform noise from coupling in the receive path of the transceiver . In an attempt to reduce RF noise a RF shield may be mounted to the printed circuit board and or may be incorporated into packaging that surrounds the electronic components. For example an A V device such as a digital camera may have metal shielding surrounding the hardware elements of the digital camera. The RF shield however may be insufficient to prevent RF interference and in some cases may be impractical due to size and form factor constraints. The RF noise reduction module may replace or augment a RF shield in an attempt to reduce platform noise originating from the various hardware elements implemented with the mobile computing device .

In various embodiments the RF noise reduction module may be incorporated into parts of the radio subsystem e.g. transceiver and or radio processor to provide an awareness of system or platform noise generated by the environment around the radio subsystem. The RF noise reduction module may be arranged to sense and then mitigate and or cancel the system or platform noise. In various implementations the RF noise reduction module may be arranged to prevent system or platform noise from interfering with the operation of a wireless communication device such as the radio transceiver . For example operation of a digital camera e.g. A V devices might produce enough RF noise to lower the sensitivity for the transceiver sufficiently enough to miss a paging signal for a voice call from the cellular radiotelephone network. The RF noise reduction module may be arranged to terminate or suspend operations for the digital camera or other RF noise sources while the transceiver is receiving radio signals to effectively increase the sensitivity of the transceiver thereby reducing or eliminating such problems.

The system or platform noise sensed by the radio subsystem may be generated by various noise sources present in the environment of the radio subsystem. The RF noise sources generating the system or platform noise may be internal and or external to the radio subsystem. In some cases for example the RF noise sources may be located internal and or external to the printed circuit board PCB of the radio subsystem. The system or platform noise may be sensed or perceived by the transceiver as random broadband noise. Such random broadband noise may adversely impact the power level sensitivity of the transceiver to receive RF signals. As such reducing such random platform noise may enhance performance of the transceiver . Operations for the RF noise reduction module may be described in further detail with reference to .

Operations for the mobile computing device may be further described with reference to one or more logic flows. It may be appreciated that the representative logic flows do not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented or in any particular order unless otherwise indicated. Moreover various activities described with respect to the logic flows can be executed in serial or parallel fashion. The logic flows may be implemented using any desired hardware elements software elements or combination of both.

As shown in a radio signal may be received by a radio receiver at block . A receive active signal may be sent by the radio receiver at block . A RF noise source may be disabled in response to the receive active signal at block . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the logic flow may detect that the radio receiver is receiving the radio signal. In one embodiment for example the logic flow may disable a digital clock signal in response to the receive active signal. In one embodiment for example the logic flow may disable a digital clock source in response to the receive active signal. In one embodiment for example the logic flow may determine whether to disable the RF noise source based on a received signal strength indicator RSSI . In one embodiment for example the logic flow may send the receive active signal during a pause interval for the radio signal. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The operation of the above described structures and associated logic flow may be further described by way of the following examples. For example assume the transceiver receives a GSM radio signal. The transceiver may detect the incoming received radio signal and assert a receive active signal RX active to indicate the transceiver is in operation. The RF noise reduction module may receive or detect the receive active signal and disable a RF noise source in response to the receive active signal. The RF noise source may comprise for example a square wave digital clock signal or other digital signal delivered by the host processor to the touch screen display and or the A V devices e.g. LCD clk CAMERA clk coupled to the host processor .

The RF noise reduction module may disable the RF noise source in a number of different ways. For example the RF noise reduction module may terminate or suspend operations for a given RF noise source. This may be accomplished by sending control information to the RF noise source to terminate or suspend operations or by disconnecting power to the RF noise source. In another example the RF noise reduction module may terminate or suspend the clock source for a given RF noise source. Operations for a RF noise source may be resumed once the receive active signal changes state.

In some embodiments the RF noise reduction module may determine whether to terminate or suspend a given RF noise source based on a given SNR. A SNR is a ratio of a given transmitted signal to the background noise of the transmission medium. In general a higher SNR is better since it provides a cleaner signal or more meaningful information. If the SNR level of the radio signal received by the transceiver is above some defined threshold then the RF noise reduction module may not need to perform any RF noise reduction. If the SNR level is lower than some defined threshold however then the RF noise reduction module may attempt to reduce RF noise by selectively disabling one or more active RF noise sources and or digital signals communicated to the RF noise sources. The threshold determination as to whether to implement RF noise reduction by the RF noise reduction module may also be implemented using various other signal characteristics such as a RSSI or other form of channel measurement.

In some cases there may be multiple RF noise sources in operation when the receive active signal is asserted. The RF noise reduction module may terminate or suspend operations for some or all of the active RF noise sources. In one scenario for example the RF noise reduction module may be arranged to terminate or suspend all active RF noise sources once the receive active signal is enabled. In another scenario for example the RF noise reduction module may be arranged to selectively terminate or suspend a subset of the active RF noise sources. For example the RF noise reduction module may terminate or suspend operations for the active RF noise sources in accordance with a priority level assigned to each RF noise source. In this case the RF noise reduction module may terminate or suspend operations for the active RF noise sources in sequence starting with those RF noise sources having a lower priority level to those RF noise sources having a higher priority level. For example assume that display has a higher priority than the A V device . The RF noise reduction module may receive or detect the receive active signal determine whether to perform RF noise reduction operations and begin terminating or suspending operations for the A V device before the display . By implementing a feedback loop with the transceiver a scenario may exist where deactivating the A V device may be sufficient RF noise reduction for a desired received signal strength RSS or SNR for the transceiver thereby reducing or obviating the need to deactivate the display . Furthermore the RF noise reduction module may dynamically adjust the amount of RF noise reduction to implement for the transceiver while the transceiver remains in operation.

In various embodiments the transceiver itself may be used to detect and enable the receive active signal for use by the RF reduction module . This may depend upon which type of wireless network the transceiver is designed for operation. In some cases for example the transceiver may operate in accordance with a wireless protocol that allows for natural pauses in radio transmission thereby allowing time periods or windows when the transceiver is not receiving radio signals and may therefore assert the receive active signal. Examples of such wireless protocols include those protocols that allow pauses in radio communications to allow other devices to talk to a wireless access point such as WiFi protocols 802.11x Bluetooth protocols GSM protocols and so forth. If the transceiver is a GSM transceiver for example the transceiver may send or enable the receive active signal during a natural pause interval for the GSM radio signal such as every 577 microseconds s for a 4.28 millisecond ms frame burst used by GSM systems.

In various embodiments a radio signal detector may be used to detect and enable the receive active signal for the RF reduction module . There are some wireless protocols that do not allow for interruptions in radio communications such as CDMA protocols or WCDMA protocols for example. If the transceiver is a CDMA transceiver for example the transceiver is always in operation when receiving CDMA radio signals. Consequently the transceiver may not necessarily be capable of asserting the receive active signal. In this case it may be possible to implement a radio signal detector using some other element different from the transceiver . For example a radio signal detector may be implemented using the radio processor the host processor or some other platform component or element. In another example a dedicated radio signal detector may be implemented for the mobile computing device to detect when the transceiver is in operation and assert the receive active signal for use by the RF noise reduction module . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some embodiments a user interface may be implemented to allow a user to manually configure the mobile computing device to terminate and suspend operations for one or more RF noise sources during operation of the transceiver . Although not necessarily needed for a GSM cellular radiotelephone network and other similar networks such manual configuration options may be desirable for other types of cellular radiotelephone networks such as CDMA or WCDMA. Further such manual configuration operations may be desirable whenever a user experiences difficulty in obtaining or sustaining a voice call connection or data session such as when the mobile computing device is in a moving vehicle between cells dense environments such as urban settings and so forth. In this case a user may actually disable certain elements of the mobile computing device before during or after receiving a voice call or data connection to improve connectivity. In addition such manual configuration options may be desirable as feature differentiators for various carrier specific implementations.

In some embodiments a frame buffer may be implemented by a RF noise source to buffer signals from the host processor prior to terminating a clock signal or operations for the RF noise source. The RF noise source may then pull data from the frame buffer when appropriate such as when the transceiver is not in operation.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

