---

title: Upflow bioreactor with septum and pressure release mechanism
abstract: An upflow bioreactor includes a vessel having an inlet and an outlet configured for upflow operation. A septum is positioned within the vessel and defines a lower chamber and an upper chamber. The septum includes an aperture that provides fluid communication between the upper chamber and lower chamber. The bioreactor also includes means for releasing pressure buildup in the lower chamber. In one configuration, the septum includes a releasable portion having an open position and a closed position. The releasable portion is configured to move to the open position in response to pressure buildup in the lower chamber. In the open position fluid communication between the lower chamber and the upper chamber is increased. Alternatively the lower chamber can include a pressure release line that is selectively actuated by pressure buildup. The pressure release mechanism can prevent the bioreactor from plugging and/or prevent catastrophic damage to the bioreactor caused by high pressures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07699976&OS=07699976&RS=07699976
owner: Utah State University
number: 07699976
owner_city: North Logan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061012
---
Work described herein has been supported in part by a grant from the United States Department of Agriculture and United States Department of Energy grant number 68 3A75 3 153. Therefore the Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to upflow bioreactors for decomposing organic materials. More particularly the present invention relates to pressure release mechanisms for upflow bioreactors that have an aperture that can become plugged.

A bioreactor is a device that uses bacteria to promote the decomposition or digestion of organic waste material into simple organics and gaseous biogas products. Biogas is typically a mixture of methane carbon dioxide hydrogen sulfide and other volatile organic compounds. If produced in sufficient quantities the methane gas can be used as a fuel.

Anaerobic digestion in open storage vessels has historically been utilized in waste water management especially in livestock production to reduce or convert complex organic matter to a smaller volume. This method has proven to be economical by reducing the volume of waste handled and by volatilizing some metabolites into the atmosphere. Some disadvantages of the process include poor ability to keep the anaerobic digestion process in balance resulting in the release of malodorous gases and inefficient incomplete conversion of digested organic matter into biogas. The slow rate of digestion and the poor quality of methane gas yielded makes the economic recovery of methane gas generally infeasible in open storage vessels.

Many attempts have been made to decompose organic waste using closed vessels. One type of closed vessel reactor that has shown very high decomposition rates is the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor. In this reactor waste material is introduced into the bottom of the reactor and forced up through the vessel where it passes through a blanket of bacteria which decomposes the organic material and produces biogas which can be collected and used as a fuel.

To achieve high decomposition rates in an upflow bioreactor the bacterial culture should be well established. One important advantage of an upflow bioreactor is that it can be operated continuously. Thus once the bacterial culture is established the high rate of digestion can be maintained for an extended period of time e.g. months or even years .

Recently an upflow reactor has been developed that induces formation of the bacterial culture on startup and maintains a thicker or more enriched bacterial culture during operation. These benefits are achieved by placing a septum near the top of the fluid level of the reactor. The septum causes suspended solids to settle out of the fluid nearing the top of the reactor. These solids settle back into the biomass where digestion continues. The solids that are retained by the septum often include bacteria. By retaining these solids in the digester the septum maintains a better bacterial culture and facilitates more complete digestion. Upflow reactors with a septum are capable of significantly reduced digestion retention times.

One problem with using a septum in an upflow bioreactor is the increased chance of plugging. To allow the effluent to exit the digester the septum has an aperture. The aperture constricts flow and is thus susceptible to plugging. If the aperture plugs extremely high pressure can build in the lower chamber as the bacteria continue to produce biogas.

The size of the aperture significantly impacts whether the aperture will plug. Although a larger diameter aperture would reduce the incidence of plugging an aperture with a diameter sufficiently large to prevent all plugging would significantly diminish the ability of the septum to retain suspended solids.

The present invention is directed to an upflow bioreactor for decomposing organic materials to produce biogas. The bioreactors include a septum for improved digestion and a pressure release mechanism for releasing pressure buildup that can occur in the event that the bioreactor becomes plugged.

The bioreactors of the present invention include a vessel having an inlet for receiving an organic material and an outlet for expelling bioreactor effluent. A septum is positioned within the vessel and defines a lower chamber and an upper chamber. The lower chamber contains a biomass that includes bacteria suitable for decomposing an organic material.

The septum includes an aperture that provides fluid communication between the lower chamber and the upper chamber. Biogas and digested material exit the lower chamber into the upper chamber via the aperture. The septum includes a releasable portion that is movable between an open position and a closed position. The releasable portion is configured to move to the open position in response to pressure buildup in the lower chamber. Opening the releasable portion increases the area of the opening which increases the fluid communication between the lower chamber and the upper chamber thereby allowing potentially obstructing material to be ejected from the lower chamber and or releasing pressure buildup in the lower chamber.

In an alternative embodiment pressure buildup in the lower chamber is released through a tube that exits the lower chamber. The tube can be filled with a fluid to prevent the contents of the lower chamber from escaping during normal operation. If the aperture in the septum becomes obstructed pressure that builds in the lower chamber forces the fluid out which allows excess gasses and fluids to exit the digester without damaging the vessel structure.

In yet another alternative embodiment a pressure gauge detects a buildup of pressure in the lower chamber and opens a valve to release the excess pressure.

The pressure relief mechanisms that may be incorporated into the bioreactors of the present invention are advantageously used in combination with the septum and aperture. The pressure relief mechanism allows the digester to be operated with greater fluid restriction through the aperture in the septum than would otherwise be possible. The restricted flow improves retention of solids and maximizes digester performance as compared to a digester without a pressure release mechanism and having a larger aperture to prevent blockage and damage to the reactor. In the event that the advantageously smaller and more restrictive aperture becomes plugged the obstructing material can escape or the excess pressure can be released until the obstruction can be removed via the pressure release mechanism.

The use of the pressure release mechanism in combination with a septum is particularly advantageous because it allows the aperture to be sized for maximum digester performance while avoiding plugging that can occur with restricted flow.

These and other advantages and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims as set forth hereinafter.

The upflow bioreactors of the present invention advantageously provide rapid decomposition of organic wastes with low to no instances of plugging. The bioreactors of the present invention include a septum that facilitates the retention of solids within the bioreactor and a pressure release mechanism that is actuated if excess pressure builds in the lower chamber of the bioreactor. The pressure release mechanism can prevent the bioreactor from plugging and or prevent catastrophic damage to the bioreactor caused by high pressures.

Bioreactor is configured for upflow operation. An inlet is provided in lower chamber for introducing organic material to be decomposed. A pump is typically coupled to inlet to provide pressure for introducing the organic material. An outlet is placed in upper chamber to allow effluent to exit bioreactor . The placement of inlet in lower chamber and the placement of outlet in upper chamber creates an upflow in bioreactor during operation. The upflow in bioreactor can be continuous or semi continuous.

Lower chamber includes a biomass . Biomass includes a microbial culture and organic material to be decomposed. The upflow in bioreactor is sufficiently slow that a sludge blanket of bacteria can form in the biomass of lower chamber . The organic material e.g. animal waste is slowly forced up through the sludge blanket where it is decomposed into smaller organic molecules and biogas. The microbial culture present in biomass is selected according to the particular organic material that is to be decomposed in bioreactor . In an exemplary embodiment the microbial culture comprises anaerobic bacteria. Anaerobic bacteria can be naturally occurring in some organic wastes e.g. non sterile animal manure .

Any organic material can be decomposed in bioreactor so long as a microbial culture is available for degrading the organic material and the organic material can be introduced into the bioreactor in a form that can be mixed with the microbes. Examples of suitable organic materials that can be digested in the bioreactors of the present invention include animal wastes produced from the farming ranching and agricultural industries food processing waste human waste and the like.

In a preferred embodiment the type of microbial culture and type of organic material are selected such that the decomposition of the organic material produces biogas. Upper chamber can be sealed such that biogas collects within upper chamber . A gas outlet allows the biogas to be ported out of bioreactor . The biogas can advantageously be used as a fuel. For example if desired the biogas can be burned and the heat can be used to maintain an optimal operating temperature in bioreactor .

Septum is positioned within vessel below fluid level . Septum can be rigid or semi rigid and can be made from any material compatible with the bioreactor fluids including but not limited to plastics metals and the like. Septum can be formed from a plurality of panels or it can be a single unitary piece of material. Septum can be secured to the inside of the vessel in any manner.

In an exemplary embodiment septum slopes upwardly from the sidewalls of vessel toward aperture . Sloping septum can facilitate the removal of materials that settle out in upper chamber . A sloped septum can also be advantageous for ensuring that biogas in lower chamber is directed to aperture . However the present invention can also be carried out using a flat septum. In one embodiment aperture has a size and shape selected to minimize the escape of solids from the lower chamber and to minimize the incidence of the aperture becoming plugged by solids passing through the aperture.

In an exemplary embodiment an auger is operatively coupled to the enclosure and positioned within aperture of septum . Auger can be any device that can be positioned within aperture and can move solids in a desired direction between or within upper and lower chambers and . In an exemplary embodiment the auger includes a shaft with one or more flanges that are configured to move a material in a direction parallel to the shaft. Auger shown in includes a shaft and a continuously spiraling flange .

When rotated clockwise auger creates a force that is opposite the flow of fluids in the bioreactor. During optimal or normal operating conditions auger is rotated in the direction that counters the flow of the bioreactor fluids. This counter flow force tends to settle out solids suspended in the effluent passing through aperture . If aperture becomes clogged the auger can be rotated in an opposite direction to remove solids to above the septum where the solids can be more easily cleaned out.

Auger and septum are provided to help form and maintain biomass . By retaining the bacteria within the lower chamber septum and auger retain more bacteria which are available for breaking down the organic material being fed into bioreactor . By utilizing the auger and septum organic materials can be treated much faster and much more efficiently than organic waste being digested in other bioreactors. In addition use of the septum and or auger improves the clarity of effluent exiting the bioreactor.

To prevent plugging and or pressure buildup in lower chamber bioreactor includes a pressure release mechanism. illustrate one embodiment of an exemplary pressure relief mechanism according to the present invention. illustrates a pressure relief mechanism that exemplifies a releasable portion of septum . Pressure relief mechanism includes a plurality of flexible members e.g. flexible members and collectively flexible members that can flex in response to pressure buildup within lower chamber . As shown in flexible members are attached to the septum at a first end and are free at a second end . In one embodiment flexible members are attached to septum by a ring and bolts . However any attachment mechanism can be used so long as a portion of each flexible member is free to flex open.

Pressure release mechanism allows septum to have a variably sized aperture. When pressure release mechanism is in a closed position aperture has a first size. When pressure release mechanism is in an open position aperture has a larger size such that fluid communication between the upper and lower chambers is increased. Aperture can be sized sufficiently large in the open position to allow material that would otherwise plug the aperture to pass through. In the closed position flexible members extend over a portion of the opening to reduce the fluid communication between the upper and lower chambers. So long as excess pressure does not build in lower chamber effluent is forced around flexible members and up through the aperture defined by the second edges e.g. edge of flexible members .

If pressure builds in lower chamber flexible member can be forced upward thereby opening pressure release mechanism and increasing the area of the aperture . The material that would otherwise plug the aperture is allowed to enter the upper chamber where it can be drawn out. shows several flexible members flexed upward to increase the fluid communication between lower chamber and upper chamber .

Flexible members can be sized and configured to flex upward in response to a particular amount of pressure in lower chamber . Typically the dimensions of the flexible members including length width and thickness can affect the force i.e. pressure buildup needed to actuate the flexible member. Thicker stiffer materials tend to allow greater pressure to build before releasing. In one embodiment the flexible members are rubber and or have a thickness in a range from about 0.15 cm to about 1.5 cm.

The releasable portion of the septum and the aperture can be sized to provide almost any diameter of aperture while the pressure release mechanism is in the open position. Examples of suitable aperture sizes for the open position can range from about 10 cm to about 2 meters alternatively in a range from 20 cm to 100 cm. One benefit of a smaller aperture is that it can be less difficult to maintain the closed position while the pressure is below a selected level. However larger sized apertures can still work if the releasable member is sufficiently rigid and or if a suitable releasing mechanism is used.

The size of aperture when the releasable portion is in the closed position can be selected to maximize solids retention. With the releasable portion closed the size of the aperture is typically in a range from about 1 cm to about 20 cm alternatively in a range from about 2 cm to about 10 cm. The preferred size of the aperture can depend on the type of material being digested the size of the bioreactor and the presence or absence of an auger.

In an alternative embodiment the flexible member can be a single piece or can be sectioned into more or fewer pieces than pressure relief mechanism . The flexible member is also not necessarily flexible along its entire length so long as a portion of the flexible member is sufficiently flexible to allow the flexible member to move to an open configuration.

Locating pressure relief mechanism around auger and aperture can be advantageous since pressure buildup in lower chamber can be released by allowing the material plugging aperture to pass around auger . However if desired the releasable portion of septum can be located away from aperture . In this embodiment actuating a flexible member or other releasable portion can cause an entirely different aperture to open in the septum.

The present invention can be carried out using mechanisms other than a flexible member to increase the fluid communication between the upper chamber and lower chamber. For example a portion of the septum can hingedly open in response to pressure. The foregoing mechanisms including the flexible members described above are examples of means for releasing pressure in the lower chamber of the bioreactor.

In an exemplary embodiment pressure release line extends above fluid level . By extending pressure release line above fluid level pressure release line will be prevented from draining the bioreactor. Once pressure release line is filled with fluid up to fluid level fluid cannot flow out lower chamber through outlet unless sufficient pressure builds to force the fluids in the pressure release line above the fluid level . If excess pressure builds in lower chamber the fluid in pressure release line flows into effluent line thereby allowing fluids to exit lower chamber and releasing the excess pressure. Pressure release line is an example of a means for releasing pressure in the lower chamber of the bioreactor. If desired bioreactor can include a releasable portion in septum in addition to pressure release line .

In an exemplary embodiment pressure release line includes a water jet . Water jet can periodically inject water into pressure release line to prevent pressure release line from plugging. By periodically adding a small amount of water to pressure release line a very slow and or periodic inward flow of water keeps the line clear.

In an exemplary embodiment pressure release line can also include a flow detector that detects an outward flow of fluids in pressure release line . In the event that bioreactor fluids are exiting the reactor through pressure release line the flow detector can cause the loading of digester to be slowed or shut off. In addition a flow detector can be used to notify personnel that a problem exists.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

