---

title: Quantum dots nucleation layer of lattice mismatched epitaxy
abstract: Lattice mismatched epitaxy and methods for lattice mismatched epitaxy are provided. The method includes providing a growth substrate and forming a plurality of quantum dots, such as, for example, AlSb quantum dots, on the growth substrate. The method further includes forming a crystallographic nucleation layer by growth and coalescence of the plurality of quantum dots, wherein the nucleation layer is essentially free from vertically propagating defects. The method using quantum dots can be used to overcome the restraints of critical thickness in lattice mismatched epitaxy to allow effective integration of various existing substrate technologies with device technologies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07432175&OS=07432175&RS=07432175
owner: 
number: 07432175
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060106
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 641 784 filed Jan. 7 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was developed under Contract F49620 03 01 0433 between the University of New Mexico and the AFSOR and Contract MDA972 00 1 0024 between the University of New Mexico and DARPA Clemson. The U.S. Government may have certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to the growth of defect free materials on dissimilar platforms and more particularly to the use of quantum dots to nucleate lattice mismatched epitaxy.

The growth of Group III V materials on silicon Si has been pursued for two decades to facilitate the monolithic integration of light emitters with existing Si device technology. One problem has been the formation of a high density of dislocations due to the lattice mismatch between Si and Group III V materials. Research efforts in the late 1980 s demonstrated room temperature GaAs AlGaAs lasers and even vertical cavity lasers grown on Si 100 . The device characteristics however were only marginal due to microcracks and a high dislocation density in the GaAs buffer.

Several growth methods were developed to improve the GaAs buffer the two most notable of which were a low As Ga ratio and in situ thermal cycling. More recently off axis substrates and low temperature growth techniques were invoked to nucleate GaAs growth on Si for InGaAs quantum dot QD based lasers. Problems arose however because the GaAs buffer was dominated by dark line defects that originated at the GaAs Si interface.

Thus there is a need for lattice mismatched epitaxy and methods for lattice mismatched epitaxy that provide defect free materials on dissimilar platforms.

In accordance with various embodiments a method for forming a semiconductor device is provided. The method can include providing a substrate and forming a plurality of quantum dots on the substrate. The method can also include forming a nucleation layer by growth and coalescence of the plurality of quantum dots wherein the nucleation layer has a threading dislocation density of less than about 5 10cm. A bulk layer can then be formed on the nucleation layer wherein a mismatch between a lattice parameter of the substrate and a lattice parameter of the bulk layer is more than about 6 .

In accordance with various embodiments a semiconductor device is provided. The semiconductor device can include a substrate and a nucleation layer disposed on the substrate and formed by coalescence of a plurality of quantum dots wherein the nucleation layer has a threading dislocation density of less than about 5 10cm. The semiconductor device can further include a bulk layer disposed on the nucleation layer wherein a mismatch between a lattice parameter of the substrate and a lattice parameter of the bulk layer more than about 6 .

In accordance with various embodiments an optoelectronic device is provided. The optoelectronic device can include a lattice mismatched epitaxy comprising a substrate and a nucleation layer formed by coalescence of a plurality of quantum dots wherein the nucleation layer has a threading dislocation density of less than about 5 10cmand wherein. The lattice mismatched epitaxy can further include a bulk layer disposed on the nucleation layer wherein a mismatch between a lattice parameter of the substrate and a lattice parameter of the bulk layer is more than about 10 .

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 e.g. 1 to 5.

As used herein the term quantum dot or QD refers to both tetragonally strained nanometer sized structures or islands as well as relaxed islands formed through an array of misfit dislocations at the growth interface.

Traditionally quantum dots QDs have only been used as an active region material due to their unique three dimensional confinement properties. According to various embodiments of the present teachings depicted in quantum dots such as for example AlSb QDs can be used to overcome the constraints of critical thickness in lattice mismatched epitaxy. This can allow effective integration of various existing substrate technologies with device technologies including but not limited to light emitting diodes detectors thermophotovoltaic cells solar cells and high frequency transistors. By using a nucleation layer of AlSb on Si for example semiconductor lasers can be grown on Si. This can open up devices to Si processing technologies that can enable integration of an entire driving circuit on a single chip. Such integration can for example allow manufacturers to adopt extremely cost effective and profitable measures in the packaging of lasers and related devices.

Referring to a semiconductor device including a lattice mismatched epitaxy is schematically depicted. Semiconductor device can include a first layer a nucleation layer disposed on first layer and a second layer disposed on nucleation layer .

First layer can be a substrate or epitaxial layer formed of for example Si. In various other embodiments first layer can be GaAs or Ge. Nucleation layer can be formed on first layer and can comprise at least one element from Groups III V. In various other embodiments quantum dot layer can comprise AlSb. Nucleation layer can be formed by coalescence and growth of a plurality of quantum dots. The thickness of nucleation layer can be about 3 to about 20 monolayers ML . Nucleation layer can further be essentially defect free having for example a threading dislocation density of less than about 5 10cm.

Second layer can be disposed on nucleation layer and formed by continued growth of nucleation layer . Second layer can comprise for example AlSb. According to various embodiments second layer can be a bulk layer having undulations. The undulations can increase the surface area of second layer and provide strain relief. Second layer can further contain misfit dislocations for example parallel to the 100 plane however these do not propagate vertically as threading or screw dislocations.

According to various other embodiments additional layers can be formed on the bulk layer such as for example a GaSb layer on an AlSb bulk layer and an InGaSb layer on the GaSb layer.

Exemplary methods for forming a lattice mismatched epitaxial layer system will now be described. Referring to a substrate or first layer comprising an epitaxial layer or a substrate can be provided. A plurality of QDs can then be formed on first layer . Formation of QDs can be by self assembly via molecular beam epitaxy MBE or other epitaxy processes such as for example chemical vapor deposition CVD techniques including metalorganic chemical vapor deposition MOCVD . Each of the plurality of QDs can be about 3 mono layers ML but may be as thick as about 20 MLs depending on the lattice mismatch.

Nucleation layer can then be formed on substrate by continued growth and coalescence of QDs . According to various embodiments about the first 20 MLs of nucleation layer can be crystallographic to allow formation of a subsequent layer that is both almost completely relaxed and free from vertically propagating defects.

Second or bulk layer can be formed on nucleation layer by continued growth. In contrast to the coalescence of QDs to form nucleation layer formation of bulk layer can be characterized by planar growth. While not intending to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that nucleation layer relieves most of the strain so that the relaxation is about 98 after about 3 ML. Relaxation can be determined by for example x ray diffraction analysis.

Specific examples of a lattice mismatched epitaxyial layer system and its method for formation will now be provided. It is to be understood that the disclosed examples are exemplary and are in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention.

A Si 100 substrate was rinsed in dilute hydrofluoric acid followed by de ionized water to remove surface oxide and passivate the Si surface with hydrogen atoms. The hydrogen atoms were removed by heating the substrate to about 500 C. in vacuum. A thermal cycle at 800 C. was used to ensure that any remnant of the oxide was removed. The removal of the hydrogen was then verified by reflection high energy electron diffraction RHEED . The substrate temperature was reduced and stabilized at about 500 C. followed by a five minute soak in an Sb over pressure.

A plurality of AlSb quantum dots were then formed by self assembly on the Si substrate using MBE. The AlSb quantum dots were grown at a substrate temperature of about 500 C. at a growth rate of 0.3 ML sec. and using a Al Sb ratio of about 1 10. After about 3 ML of deposition the QD density was about 10QD cm. QD height was about 1 3 nm and QD diameter was about 20 nm.

Continued deposition to about 18 ML caused the individual QDs to coalesce but remain crystallographic. Atomic force microscopy showed a crystallographic preference of the coalescence along the 110 direction. Continued deposition to about 54 ML showed continued coalescence towards planar growth.

After about 70 ML of AlSb growth on Si the surface undulations were about 10 nm wide and about 1 nm high. This is shown in the cross sectional HR TEM image of . The misfit dislocation density was about 10 cmat this point in the growth process. With continued growth 1 m the surface undulations merged became shallower and considerably broader until they were no longer be detected by TEM. Analysis by HR XRD using a combination of 004 and 115 scans of the AlSb layer 500 nm grown on Si indicated the relaxation of the AlSb to be 98 .

The exemplary lattice mismatched epitaxy can be used in the formation of optoelectronic devices such as for example semiconductor lasers light emitting diodes LEDs detectors thermophotovoltaic cells TVP solar cells and high frequency transistors on Si. For example in another exemplary embodiment a room temperature optically pumped InGaSb quantum well laser was grown on Si 100 substrate.

The Si 100 substrate was first hydrogen passivated in an HF etch as above. The hydrogen was removed by heating the substrate to about 500 C. in vacuum followed by heating to 800 C. to ensure removal of oxide. The substrate temperature was then stabilized to about 500 C. After a five minute soak in an Sb overpressure the structure was grown. The structure comprised a 100 AlSb nucleation layer and an AlSb 100 thick GaSb 100 thick 80 superlattice. The laser structure comprised an AlGaSb cladding 1.5 m thick and AlGaSb waveguide 0.5 m thick which sandwiched the active region. The active regions comprised three 130 InGaSb quantum wells separated by 200 AlGaSb barriers.

The nucleation layer was formed as above by first forming a plurality of AlSb quantum dots on the Si substrate using MBE. The AlSb quantum dots were grown at a growth rate of 0.3 ML sec. and using a Al Sb ratio of about 1 10. After about 3 ML of deposition the QD density was about 10QD cm. QD height was about 1 3 nm and QD diameter was about 20 nm. Transmission electron microscopy showed the absence of defects in the nucleation layer. While not intending to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that the defect free epitaxy was due to a combination of high strain energy and strong atomic bonds which produced the strain relieving crystal undulations in the AlSb grown on the Si substrate. It is believed that the periodic misfit dislocations at the Si AlSb interface established alternating regions of strain and relations causing the undulations. The undulations increased the surface area of the epimaterial and helped to accommodate the 13 lattice mismatch. Laser emission and spectrum characterization has been reported in vol. 41 No. 9 28 Apr. 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Although exemplary embodiments described herein used an Si growth substrate the QD nucleation layer may be utilized on any mismatched lattice epitaxial layer system including epitaxy within a structure not necessarily on a substrate.

According to various other embodiments a layer by layer planar growth mode can be accomplished without the QD layer but enabled by misfit dislocations. This growth mode does not require a nucleation layer but can be enabled and characterized by spontaneous formation of a 2 dimensional array of 90 misfit dislocations. A subsequent bulk layer can be grown immediately on the misfit array. In this embodiment growth conditions can enable 98 or more strain relief immediately following the misfit array formation for example within the first monolayer of mismatched epitaxy. Thus the minimum nucleation layer thickness can be for example a single atomic layer which contains the misfit array. This bufferless growth requiring no nucleation layer can enable very thin devices to be formed directly on mismatched substrates to enable thin Group III V devices on Si for example

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

