---

title: Directional location system for a portable electronic device
abstract: A method for a first portable electronic device to locate a second portable electronic device includes: determining location coordinates of the first portable electronic device, receiving location coordinates from the second portable electronic device, determining a relative direction from the first portable electronic device to the second portable electronic device, generating an arrow on a display of the first portable electronic device, the arrow representing a direction from the first portable electronic device to the second portable electronic device. Wherein the direction of the arrow is automatically updated based on changes in the location coordinates of the first portable electronic device and the location coordinates of the second portable electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09366545&OS=09366545&RS=09366545
owner: BLACKBERRY LIMITED
number: 09366545
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20060117
---
The present disclosure relates to a portable electronic device in particular a directional location system for a portable electronic device.

With the advent of GPS technology it has become possible to determine the precise location of any GPS receiver on the globe. GPS technology is often combined with mapping software in order to visually indicate the location of a GPS receiver on a map. Some of the portable devices that are currently available on the market include a screen for displaying a map along with a visual indicator that represents the GPS location of the device however there are several drawbacks associated with these devices.

Downloading geographic maps onto the portable devices from a network is very time consuming and there are often licensing fees associated with map use. In addition the size of the screen is typically minimized in order to reduce the overall size and weight of the portable device. This may result in a user spending valuable time attempting to understand the map if insufficient information is provided on a single screen.

As with any map time is also spent becoming oriented with one s surroundings and correlating them to the map on the screen. If the user is not particularly map literate it may take a very long time for the user to determine his or her location. Further in a region that is poorly mapped or a region that includes few roads or landmarks mapping one s GPS location on a portable device may not be very useful.

Referring to a functional block diagram of a communication system a first portable electronic device and a second portable electronic device is generally shown. The portable electronic devices and the communication system are operable to effect communications over a radio communications channel therebetween. A first user not shown is associated with the first portable electronic device and a second user not shown is associated with the second portable electronic device and both portable electronic devices are Global Positioning System GPS enabled.

For the purpose of illustration the communication system is functionally represented in and includes a first base station and a second base station . Base station defines a coverage area or cell within which communications between the base station and the portable electronic device can be effected. Similarly base station defines a cell . It will be appreciated that the portable electronic devices are movable within their respective cells and can be moved to coverage areas defined by other cells including those that are not illustrated in the present example.

The base stations are part of a wireless network and infrastructure that provides a link to the portable electronic devices . The wireless network and infrastructure includes additional base stations not shown that provide the other cells referred to above. Data is delivered to the portable electronic devices via wireless transmission from base stations respectively. Similarly data is sent from the portable electronic devices via wireless transmission to the base stations .

Wireless networks and infrastructures include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks or dual mode wireless networks. For the purpose of the present exemplary embodiment the wireless network and infrastructure includes a dual mode wireless network that supports both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations.

The communication system further includes a relay device that is connected to the wireless network and infrastructure and to a server . It will be understood that the functions provided by the relay device and the server can be embodied in the same device. The server is also connected to an administration server as shown. The administration server provides administrative services to and control over the server .

The server is also functionally coupled through a connector to a backup restore database . Other connectors and databases can be provided for example for synchronization purposes. The connector receives commands from the server . It will be understood that the connector is a functional component and can be provided by way of an application on the server . The backup restore database is used for storing data records including for example copies of Short Message Service SMS or Personal Identification Number PIN messages sent from the portable electronic devices .

Referring now to a block diagram of certain components within the portable electronic devices is shown. In the present embodiment the portable electronic devices are based on the computing environment and functionality of a wireless personal digital assistant PDA . It will be understood however that the portable electronic devices are not limited to wireless personal digital assistants. Other portable electronic devices are possible such as cellular telephones smart telephones and laptop computers. Referring again to the present embodiment the portable electronic devices are based on a microcomputer including a processor connected to a read only memory ROM that contains a plurality of applications executable by the processor that enables each portable electronic device to perform certain functions including for example PIN message functions SMS message functions and cellular telephone functions. The processor is also connected to a random access memory unit RAM and a persistent storage device which are responsible for various non volatile storage functions of the portable electronic devices . The processor receives input from various input devices including a keypad . The processor outputs to various output devices including an LCD display . A microphone and phone speaker are connected to the processor for cellular telephone functions. The processor is also connected to location determining GPS hardware magnetic sensor hardware and a modem and radio device . The modem and radio device is used to connect to wireless networks using an antenna . The modem and radio device transmits and receives voice and data communications to and from the portable electronic devices through the antenna .

Each portable electronic device is operable to effect two way communication of voice and data. Thus the portable electronic devices transmit and receive voice communications over the wireless network and infrastructure via wireless communications with the base stations respectively over a radio communications channel. In this manner the first portable electronic device may communicate with the second portable electronic device and vice versa.

Referring to a functional block diagram of a pointing system of the first portable electronic device is generally shown. The pointing system includes an arrow application that obtains information from magnetic sensor hardware GPS hardware and destination application . The destination application is stored in ROM and executed by the processor .

The magnetic sensor hardware includes an electronic compass not shown that determines the direction toward which the forward end of the first portable electronic device is pointed. As shown in the forward end of both portable electronic devices is pointed towards north as indicated by north arrow . It will be appreciated that is provided by way of example only and the devices may be pointed in any direction at any given time.

The magnetic sensor hardware communicates with a direction Application Programming Interface API to provide the direction information of the first portable electronic device to the arrow application . The direction information is provided in standard compass format such as 30 north for example.

In one embodiment the electronic compass includes magnetic sensor HMC1041Z which is manufactured by Honeywell. Other suitable magnetic sensors manufactured by Honeywell or other manufacturers may alternatively be used.

The GPS hardware includes a GPS receiver not shown for determining the geographic location coordinates of the first portable electronic device . The GPS receiver is able to determine the latitude longitude and altitude of the first portable electronic device . Operation of GPS receivers is well known in the art and therefore will not be described here. The GPS hardware communicates with a GPS API which provides the geographic coordinates to the arrow application .

The destination application provides geographic location coordinates of a destination to the arrow application via a destination API . In one embodiment the destination is a location of the second portable electronic device . Similar to the first portable electronic device the second portable electronic device includes a GPS receiver not shown for determining geographic location coordinates thereof. Once the coordinates have been determined locally they are sent to the destination application of the first portable electronic device . The geographic coordinates of the second portable electronic device are updated and sent on a continuous basis to the first portable electronic device .

The destination application further includes a selection portion not shown which allows the first user to specify which device to track. In this embodiment the first user tracks the second portable electronic device . By selecting the desired device signals from other devices are not processed.

The arrow application processes information from the direction API the GPS API and the destination API to generate an arrow which appears on the LCD display as shown in . The arrow continuously points toward the geographic location of the second portable electronic device . Text is provided to specify the distance and identify which portable electronic device the arrow is pointing toward. The arrow is superimposed on a north arrow in a manner similar to a compass.

The distance associated with the arrow is determined based on the relationship between the geographic coordinates of the first portable electronic device and the geographic coordinates of the second portable electronic device . The direction of the arrow is determined using the direction information from the magnetic sensor hardware and the relationship between the geographic coordinates of the portable electronic devices . No map information is used by the portable electronic device therefore the magnetic sensor hardware functions to provide a directional relationship between the geographic coordinates of the first portable electronic device and the geographic coordinates of the second portable electronic device .

Arrow will continue to be generated as long as the first portable electronic device is able to receive GPS coordinates from the second portable electronic device . As such the distance for which the arrow may be generated is generally unlimited.

Operation of the pointing system of the first portable electronic device will now be described with reference to . First the geographic location and orientation of the first portable electronic device is determined using the GPS hardware and the magnetic sensor hardware respectively. Then the geographic coordinates of the second portable electronic device are determined locally and sent to the first portable electronic device . The geographic coordinates are sent over the wireless network and infrastructure via wireless communications with the base stations respectively over a radio communications channel as has been previously described. The geographic coordinates are continuously updated and re sent to the first portable electronic device .

The GPS information direction information and destination coordinates are then sent to the arrow application . The direction and distance from the first portable electronic device to the second portable electronic device is then calculated and an arrow is provided on the display to indicate the location of the second portable electronic device together with optionally the distance calculated. The arrow points toward the destination continuously. The direction of the arrow is updated every time there is a change in any one of the direction information the GPS information or the destination coordinates. As such the first user is able to travel in a direct line toward the second user regardless of movement by either parties or reorientation of the first portable electronic device .

The arrow may be any visual identifier that indicates a direction between a first point and a second point on the display . For example an image of a person walking a car driving or an airplane flying in the direction of the destination may alternatively be displayed. Indicating the direction to the destination location is particularly useful when a line of vision to the destination is blocked such as when traveling through bad weather or when navigating through a crowd for example.

It will be appreciated that the first portable electronic device user is authorized to receive and view location information about the second portable electronic device user. Similarly the second portable electronic device user may be authorized to receive and view location information about the first electronic device user. The authorization process between a pair of portable electronic device users is well known in the art and therefore will not be described here.

It will further be appreciated that although the pointing system has been described with respect to the first portable electronic device the second portable electronic device may also include a pointing system . Any type of device which is enabled with a positioning system such as GPS for example may be tracked by the pointing system . Such devices include cell phones PDAs and laptop computers for example.

In another embodiment the geographic location is determined locally by both the first portable electronic device and the second portable electronic device based on signal strength from cell towers. The geographic location information is then processed in a similar manner as the geographic location information obtained using GPS technology.

In yet another embodiment the first portable electronic device is used for locating static destinations. Static destination coordinates that correspond to a restaurant a friend s house or a landmark for example may be provided to the first portable electronic device . The destination coordinates are manually input into the first portable electronic device by the first user. The geographic location and orientation of the first portable electronic device is determined using the GPS hardware and the magnetic sensor hardware respectively. Then the direction information GPS information and destination coordinates are sent to the arrow application and arrow is generated on the display in a manner that has been previously described. In addition to being manually input the destination coordinates may alternatively be downloaded from a database or the internet.

In still another embodiment geographic map information is downloaded onto the first portable electronic device. In this embodiment the arrow is superimposed onto a map. Rather than relying solely on the arrow direction to guide the first user as has been described in the previous embodiments the map provides a reference framework so that the first user can choose a map route that follows the arrow direction. It will be appreciated that the geographic map information may be used when locating both changing and static destination coordinates.

A specific embodiment has been shown and described herein. However modifications and variations may occur to those skilled in the art. All such modifications and variations are believed to be within the sphere and scope of the present disclosure.

