---

title: Apparatus for the continuous separation of biological fluids into components and method of using same
abstract: The present invention provides an apparatus for separating components of a fluid having an outer housing containing a core and other components wherein three separate fluid pathways are provided to allow continuous separation of biological fluids; this apparatus is particularly useful for the administration of extracorporeal photopheresis in that it enhances the collection of the desired blood components, the return of the treated blood, and the speed with which the therapy is administered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07914477&OS=07914477&RS=07914477
owner: Therakos, Inc.
number: 07914477
owner_city: Raritan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060419
---
This application is a divisional of United States patent application Ser. No. 10 654 742 filed Sep. 3 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 211 037 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 375 629 filed Feb. 27 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 186 230 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 361 287 filed Mar. 4 2002 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to methods and apparatus for separating a fluid into its components for example a biological or sensitive fluid such as blood and specifically to methods and apparatus that use centrifugal force to separate a fluid into its components by density so as to improve the component yield.

With the advance of medical sciences it has become possible to treat a patient s blood in closed loop processes returning the patient s own treated blood back to him in one medical treatment. An example of such processes include external treatment methods for diseases in which there is a pathological increase of lymphocytes such as cutaneous T cell lymphoma or other diseases affecting white blood cells. In such methods the patient s blood is irradiated with ultraviolet light in the presence of a chemical or an antibody. Ultraviolet light affects the bonding between the lymphocytes and the chemical or antibody that inhibits the metabolic processes of the lymphocytes.

During one of these medical treatments a centrifuge bowl such as for example a Latham bowl as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 303 193 expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety herein separates blood into red blood cells RBCs and buffy coat. The Latham bowl is a blood component separator that has been used for some time in the medical apheresis market as well as in innovative medical therapies such as extracorporeal photopheresis ECP . PCT Applications WO 97 36581 and WO 97 36634 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 321 919 4 398 906 4 428 744 and 4 464 166 provide descriptions of extracorporeal photopheresis and are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The Latham bowl efficiency is often measured by the white blood cell WBC yield which is typically about 50 . Yield is defined as the percentage of cells collected versus the number processed. When compared to other types of whole blood separators this high yield enables the Latham bowl separator to collect much larger volumes of WBCs while processing much less whole blood from the donor patient. However a major drawback to the Latham bowl separator is that the separation process must be repeatedly stopped to remove the packed RBCs and plasma once they fill the inside of the bowl creating a batch type process. Although the Latham bowl separator has a high volume yield the constant filling and emptying of this bowl wastes time thus the process is considered less efficient with respect to time. Additionally the Latham bowl requires a rotating seal which is expensive and difficult to manufacture.

An additional drawback of centrifugal processing apparatus has been their high cost of manufacture due to strict tolerances rotating seals and extensive manufacturing processes.

The present invention provided an apparatus for separating components of a fluid comprising an outer housing with an upper housing end and a lower housing end wherein said outer housing increases in diameter from said upper housing end to said lower housing end said lower housing end having a housing floor and said housing upper end having a housing outlet said outer housing adapted for rotation about a center axis said outer housing containing a core in said interior volume the core having an outer wall an upper core end and a lower core end said core connected with said outer housing for rotation therewith and providing a separation volume between said core and said outer housing said core end having a lumen connector and a lumen connector top surface a first lumen for providing fluid communication from the housing outlet through the lumen connector and then radially outward through the core to the fluid separation volume a second lumen providing fluid communications from the housing outlet extending axially along center axis to housing floor a connection sleeve which forms with the lumen connector a chamber and provide fluid communications between the housing outlet and the separation volume.

In another embodiment of the present invention is provided a method for separating components of a fluid into a higher density component and a lower density component comprising providing a centrifuge bowl have a first bowl channel a second bowl channel and a bowl chamber flowing said fluid from a source into said centrifuge bowl through said first bowl channel rotating said centrifuge bowl about an axis removing said higher density component from said bowl via said second bowl channel and removing said lower density component from said bowl via said bowl chamber.

Features of the present invention are embodied in the permanent blood driving equipment the disposable photopheresis kit the various devices which make up the disposable kit and the corresponding treatment process. The following written description is outlined as follows 

The above outline is included to facilitate understanding of the features of the present invention. The outline is not limiting of the present invention and is not intended to categorize or limit any aspect of the invention. The inventions are described and illustrated in sufficient detail that those skilled in this art can readily make and use them. However various alternatives modifications and improvements should become readily apparent without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Specifically while the invention is described in the context of a disposable kit and permanent blood drive system for use in photopheresis therapy certain aspects of the invention are not so limited and are applicable to kits and systems used for rendering other therapies such as apheresis or any other extracorporeal blood treatment therapy.

Photopheresis kit comprises cassette centrifuge bowl irradiation chamber hematocrit sensor removable data card treatment bag and plasma collection bag . Photopheresis kit further comprises saline connector spike and anticoagulant connector spike for respectively connecting saline and anticoagulant fluid bags not shown . Photopheresis kit has all the necessary tubing and connectors to fluidly connect all devices and to route the circulation of fluids during a photopheresis treatment session. All tubing is sterile medical grade flexible tubing. Triport connectors are provided at various positions for the introduction of fluids into the tubing if necessary.

Needle adapters and are provided for respectively connecting photopheresis kit to needles for drawing whole blood from a patient and returning blood fluids to the patient. Alternatively photopheresis kit can be adapted to use a single needle to both draw whole blood from the patient and return blood fluids to the patient. However a two needle kit is preferred because of the ability to simultaneously draw whole blood and return blood fluids to the patient. When a patient is hooked up to photopheresis kit a closed loop system is formed.

Cassette acts both as a tube organizer and a fluid flow router. Irradiation chamber is used to expose blood fluids to UV light. Centrifuge bowl separates whole blood into its different components according to density. Treatment bag is a 1000 mL three port bag. Straight bond port is used to inject a photoactivatable or photosensitive compound into treatment bag . Plasma collection bag is 1000 mL two port bag. Both treatment bag and plasma collection bag have a hinged cap spike tube which can be used for drainage if necessary. Photopheresis kit further comprises hydrophobic filters and which are adapted to connect to pressure transducers and to filter via vent tubes and for monitoring and controlling the pressures within tubes connecting the patient . Monitoring the pressure helps ensure that the kit is operating within safe pressure limits. The individual devices of photopheresis kit and their functioning are discussed below in detail.

Cassette has fluid inlet tubes and for receiving fluids into cassette fluid outlet tubes and for expelling fluids from cassette and fluid inlet outlet tube that can be used for both introducing and expelling fluids into and out of cassette . These fluid input and output tubes fluidly couple cassette to a patient being treated as well as the various devices of photopheresis kit such as centrifuge bowl irradiation chamber treatment bag plasma collection bag and bags containing saline anticoagulation fluid to form a closed loop extracorporeal fluid circuit .

Pump tube loops and protrude from side wall of housing . Pump tube loops and are provided for facilitating the circulation of fluids throughout photopheresis kit during therapy. More specifically when cassette is secured to deck for operation each one of said pump tube loops and are loaded into a corresponding peristaltic pump and . Peristaltic pumps and drive fluid through the respective pump tube loops and in a predetermined direction thereby driving fluid through photopheresis kit as necessary. The operation and automatic loading and unloading of peristaltic pumps and is discussed in detail below with respect to .

Turning now to cassette is shown with housing in an exploded state. For ease of illustration and description the internal tubular circuitry within housing is not illustrated in . The internal tubular circuitry is illustrated in and will be discussed in relation thereto. Cassette has filter assembly positioned therein and in fluid connection with inlet tube outlet tube and one end of each of pump tube loops and . Filter assembly comprises vent chambers and . Filter assembly and its functioning is discussed in detail below with respect to .

Housing comprises cover and base . Cover has top surface a bottom surface and side wall . Cover has openings and for allowing vent chambers and of filter assembly to extend therethrough. Side wall has a plurality of tube slots to allow the inlet tubes outlet tubes and pump loop tubes to pass into the internal space of housing for connection with the internal tubular circuitry located therein. Only a few tube slots are labeled in to avoid numerical crowding. Tabs and are positioned on side wall so as not to interfere with tube slots . Cover has occlusion bars and A extending from bottom surface . Occlusion bars and A are preferably molded into bottom surface of cover during its formation.

Base has a plurality of U shaped tube holders extending upward from top surface . U shaped tube holders hold the inlet tubes outlet tubes pump loop tubes filter assembly and internal tubular circuitry in place. Only a few U shaped holders are labeled in to avoid numerical crowding. Preferably a U shaped holder is provided on base at each location where an inlet tube an outlet tube or a pump loop tube passes through a tube slot on side wall . Male extrusions protrude from top surface of base for mating with corresponding female holes located on bottom surface of cover . Preferably a male protrusion is located at or near each of the four corners of base and near filter . Male protrusions mate with the female holes to form a snap fit and secure base to cover .

Base further comprises a hub . Hub is a five way tube connector used to connect five tubes of the internal tubular circuitry. Preferably three apertures are located near and surround three of the tubes leading into hub . Hub acts as a centralized junction which can be used in conjunction with compression actuators to direct fluids through photopheresis kit and to and from the patient. In addition to hub appropriate tube connectors such as T connectors and Y connector are used to obtain the desired flexible tubing pathways.

Five apertures are located on the floor of base . Each aperture is surrounded by an aperture wall having slots for passing portions of the internal tubular circuitry therethrough. An elongated aperture is also provided on the floor of base . Apertures are located on base to align with corresponding compression actuators of deck . Aperture is located on base to align with compression actuators of deck . Each aperture is sized so that a single compression actuator can extend therethrough. Aperture is sized so that three compression actuators can extend therethrough. Compression actuators are used to close occlude and open certain fluid passageways of the internal tubular circuitry in order to facilitate or prohibit fluid flow along a desired path. When it is desired to have a certain passageway open so that fluid can flow therethrough the compression actuator for that passageway is in a lowered position However when it is desired to have a certain fluid passageway closed so that fluid can not flow therethrough the appropriate compression actuator is raised extending the compression actuator through aperture or and compressing a portion of the flexible tubular circuitry against bottom surface of cover thereby closing that passageway. Preferably occlusion bars and are positioned on bottom surface to align with the compression actuators so that the portion of flexible tubing being occluded is compressed against occlusion bar or . Alternatively the occlusion bar can be omitted or located on the compression actuators themselves.

It is preferable for cassette to have a unique identifier that can communicate with and relay information to permanent tower system . The unique identifier is provided to ensure that the disposable photopheresis kit is compatible with the blood drive equipment into which it is being loaded and that the photopheresis kit is capable of running the desired treatment process. The unique identifier can also be used as a means to ensure that the disposable photopheresis kit is of a certain brand name or make. In the illustrated example the unique identifier is embodied as data card that is inserted into data card receiving port of permanent tower system . Data card has both read and write capabilities and can store data relating to the treatment therapy performed for future analysis. The unique identifier can also take on a variety of forms including for example a microchip that interacts with the blood drive equipment when the kit is loaded a bar code or a serial number.

Cover has data card holder for holding data card . Data card holder comprises four elevated ridges in a segmented rectangular shape for receiving and holding data card to cassette . Data card holder holds data card in place via a snap fit .

Referring now to the internal tubular circuitry of cassette will now be discussed. At least a portion of the internal tubular circuitry is preferably made of flexible plastic tubing that can be pinched shut by the exertion of pressure without compromising the hermetic integrity of the tube. Base of cassette is illustrated in so that the internal tubular circuitry can be viewed. Inlet tubes and and outlet tube are provided for coupling cassette to centrifuge bowl . More specifically outlet tube is provide for delivering whole blood from cassette to centrifuge bowl and inlet tubes and are respectively provide for returning a lower density blood components and higher density blood components to cassette for further routing through photopheresis kit . The lower density blood components can include for example plasma leukocytes platelets buffy coat or any combination thereof. The higher density components can include for example red blood cells. Outlet tube and inlet tube fluidly couple cassette to irradiation chamber . More specifically outlet tube is provided for delivering an untreated lower density blood component for example buffy coat to irradiation chamber for exposure to photo energy while inlet tube is provided for returning the treated lower density blood component to cassette for further routing.

Inlet tube and outlet tube couple treatment bag to cassette . Outlet tube is provided to deliver an untreated low density blood component for example buffy coat to treatment bag . Outlet tube has hematocrit HCT sensor operably connected thereto to monitor for the introduction of a high density blood component such as red blood cells. HCT sensor is a photo sensor assembly and is operably coupled to a controller. HCT sensor sends a detection signal to the controller when red blood cells are detected in outlet tube and the controller will take the appropriate action. Inlet tube is provided to return the untreated low density blood component from treatment bag to cassette for further routing. Inlet tubes and are respectively connected to a saline and anticoagulant storage bags not shown via spikes and and are provided for delivering saline and an anticoagulant fluid to cassette for further routing to the patient.

Inlet Outlet tube and outlet tube couple plasma collection bag to cassette . More specifically outlet tube delivers a blood component such as plasma to plasma collection bag . Inlet Outlet tube can be used to either deliver red blood cells to plasma collection bag from cassette or return the blood component s that build up in plasma collection bag to cassette for further routing. Inlet tube and outlet tubes and are coupled to a patient. Specifically outlet tube is provided to return treated blood saline untreated blood components treated blood components and other fluids back to the patient. Inlet tube is provided for delivering untreated whole blood and a predetermined amount of an anticoagulant fluid from the patient to cassette for routing and treatment within photopheresis kit . Outlet tube is specifically provided for delivering an anticoagulant fluid to inlet tube . It is preferable that all tubing is disposable medical grade sterile tubing. Flexible plastic tubing is the most preferred.

Cassette has five pump tube loops and for driving blood fluids throughout cassette and photopheresis kit . More specifically pump tube loop loads into whole blood pump and respectively drives whole blood in and out of cassette via inlet tube and outlet tube passing through filter along the way. Pump loop tube loads into return pump and drives blood fluids through filter and back to the patient via outlet tube . Pump loop tube loads into red blood cell pump and draws red blood cells from centrifuge bowl and drives them into cassette via inlet line . Pump loop tube loads into anticoagulant pump and drives an anticoagulant fluid into cassette via inlet tube and out of cassette to via outlet tube which connects with inlet tube . Pump loop tube loads into recirculation pump and drives blood fluids such as plasma through treatment bag and irradiation chamber from cassette .

Each of peristaltic pumps are activated when necessary to perform the photopheresis treatment therapy according to an embodiment of the method of the present invention which is described below in relation to . Peristaltic pumps can be operated one at a time or in any combination. The pumps work in conjunction with compression actuators to direct fluids through desired pathways of photopheresis kit . Apertures and are strategically located on base along the internal tubular circuitry to facilitate proper routing. Through the use of compression actuators the fluids can be directed along any pathway or combination thereof.

Filter which is located within cassette as described above is illustrated in detail in . Referring first to filter is illustrated fully assembled. Filter comprises a filter housing . Filter housing is preferably constructed of a transparent or translucent medical grade plastic. However the invention is not so limited and filter housing can be constructed of any material that will not contaminate blood or other fluids that are flowing therethrough.

Filter housing has four fluid connection ports extruding therefrom namely whole blood inlet port whole blood outlet port treated fluid inlet port and treated fluid outlet port . Ports are standard medical tubing connection ports that allow medical tubing to be fluidly connected thereto. Ports respectively contain openings and . Openings and extend through ports and forming fluid passageways into filter housing at the desired locations.

Ports and are also used to secure filter within cassette . In doing so ports and can engage U shaped fasteners of cassette . Filter housing also has a protrusion extending the bottom surface of housing floor . Protrusion fits into a guide hole of base of cassette .

Referring now to filter is illustrated in an exploded state. Filter housing is a two piece assembly comprising roof and base . Roof is connected to base by any means known in the art such as ultrasonic welding heat welding applying an adhesive or by designing roof and base so that a tight fit results between the two. While filter housing is illustrated as a two piece assembly filter housing can be either a single piece structure or a multi piece assembly.

Base has chamber separation wall extending upward from a top surface of housing floor . When base and roof are assembled top surface of chamber separation wall contacts the bottom surface of roof forming two chambers within the filter housing whole blood chamber and filter chamber . Fluid can not directly pass between whole blood chamber and filter chamber .

Whole blood chamber is a substantially L shaped chamber having floor . Whole blood chamber has a whole blood inlet hole and a whole blood outlet hole not illustrated in floor . Whole blood inlet hole and the whole blood outlet hole are located at or near the ends of the substantially L shaped whole blood chamber . Whole blood inlet hole forms a passageway with opening of inlet port so that a fluid can flow into whole blood chamber . Similarly the whole blood outlet hole not illustrated forms a passageway with opening of outlet port so that fluid can flow out of whole blood chamber .

Filter chamber has floor . Floor has elevated ridge extending upward therefrom. Elevated ridge is rectangular and forms a perimeter. While elevated ridge is rectangular in the illustrated embodiment elevated ridge can be any shape so long as it forms an enclosed perimeter. The height of elevated ridge is less than the height of chamber separation wall . As such when roof and base are assembled space exists between the top of elevated ridge and the bottom surface of roof . Elevated ridge and chamber separation wall form a trench there between.

In order to facilitate fluid flow through filter chamber floor of filter chamber has treated fluid inlet hole and treated fluid outlet hole . Treated fluid inlet hole is located exterior of the perimeter formed by elevated ridge and forms a passageway with opening of inlet port so that a fluid can flow into filter chamber from outside filter housing . Treated fluid outlet hole is located interior of the perimeter formed by elevated ridge and forms a passageway with opening of outlet port so that a fluid can flow out of filter chamber .

Filter further comprises filter element . Filter element comprises frame having filter media positioned therein. Frame has a neck that forms a filter inlet hole . Filter element is positioned in filter chamber so that frame fits into trench and neck surrounds treated blood inlet hole . Filter inlet hole is aligned with treated fluid inlet hole so that incoming fluid can freely flow through holes and into filter chamber . Frame of filter element forms a hermetic fit with elevated ridge . All fluid that enters filter chamber through holes and must pass through filter media in order to exit filter chamber via treated fluid outlet hole . Filter media preferably has a pore size of approximately 200 microns. Filter media can be formed of woven mesh such as woven polyester.

Filter chamber further comprises filter vent chamber within roof . Filter vent chamber has gas vent in the form of a hole . Because gas vent opens into filter vent chamber which in turn opens into filter chamber gases that build up within filter chamber can escape through gas vent . Similarly whole blood chamber comprises blood vent chamber within roof . Blood vent chamber has gas vent in the form of a hole. Because gas vent opens into blood vent chamber which in turn opens into whole blood chamber gases that build up in whole blood chamber can escape via gas vent .

Pressure sensors and are coupled to controller which is a properly programmed processor. Controller can be a main processor used to drive the entire system or can be a separate processor coupled to a main processor. Pressure sensors and produce electrical output signals representative of the pressure readings within chambers and respectively. Controller receives on a frequent or continuous basis data representing the pressure within chambers and . Controller is programmed with values representing desired pressures within chambers and . Controller continuously analyzes the pressure data it receives from pressure sensors and to determine whether the pressure readings are within a predetermined range from the desired pressure for chambers and . Controller is also coupled to whole blood pump and return pump . In response to the pressure data received from pressure sensors and controller is programmed to control the speed of whole blood pump and return pump thereby adjusting the flow rates through the pumps and . Adjusting these flow rates in turn adjust the pressure within whole blood chambers and filter chamber respectively. It is in this way that the pressure within the lines drawing and returning blood to and from the patient is maintained at acceptable levels.

The functioning of filter during a photopheresis therapy session will now be discussed in relation to and . While the functioning of filter will be described in detail with respect to drawing whole blood from a patient and returning a component of said whole blood back into the patient after it is treated the invention is not so limited. Filter can be used in connection with almost any fluid including red blood cells white blood cells buffy coat plasma or a combination thereof.

Whole blood pump draws whole blood from a patient who is connected to photopheresis kit via a needle connected to port . The rotational speed of whole blood pump is set so that the pressure of the line drawing the whole blood from the patient is at an acceptable level. Upon being drawn from the patient the whole blood passes into cassette via inlet tube . Inlet tube is fluidly connected to inlet port of filter . The whole blood passes through opening of inlet port and into L shaped whole blood chamber . The whole blood enters chamber through inlet hole which is located on floor . As more whole blood enters chamber the whole blood spills along floor until it reaches the whole blood outlet hole not illustrated at the other end of L shaped whole blood chamber . As discussed above the whole blood outlet whole forms a passageway with opening of outlet port . The whole blood that is within chamber flows across floor through the whole blood outlet hole into outlet port and out of filter through opening .

As the whole blood passes through whole blood chamber gases that are trapped in the whole blood escape. These gases collect in blood vent chamber and then escape via gas vent . Pressure sensor continuously monitors the pressure within blood chamber through vent tube and transmits corresponding pressure data to controller . Controller analyzes the received pressure data and if necessary adjusts the speed of whole blood pump thereby adjusting the flow rate and pressure within chamber and inlet tube . Controller adjust the pump speed to ensure that the pressure is within the desired pressure range.

The whole blood then exits filter through outlet port and passes out of cassette via outlet tube . The whole blood is then separated into components and or treated as described in detail below. Before being returned to the patient this treated fluid i.e. treated blood or blood components must be filtered. Untreated fluids such as red blood cells also must be filtered and will subjected to the below filtering process. The treated fluid is fed into filter chamber through opening of inlet port . Inlet port is fluidly connected to pump loop tube . The treated fluid enters filter chamber through inlet hole and passes through filter inlet hole of filter element . The treated fluid fills filter chamber until it spills over frame of filter element which is secured to elevated ridge . The treated fluid passes through filter media . Filter media removes contaminants and other undesired materials from the treated fluid while at the same facilitating the release of trapped gases from the treated fluid. The treated fluid that passes through filter media gathers on floor of filter chamber within the perimeter formed by elevated ridge . This treated fluid then passes into treated fluid outlet hole and out of filter through opening of outlet port . The treated fluid is then returned to the patient via outlet tube which is fluidly connected to outlet port . The treated fluid is driven through filter chamber and outlet tube by return pump .

Gases that are trapped in the treated fluid escape and collect in filter vent chamber as the treated fluid flows through filter chamber . These gases then escape filter via gas vent . Pressure sensor continuously monitors the pressure within filter chamber through vent tube and transmits corresponding pressure data to controller . Controller analyzes the received pressure data and compares it to the desired pressure value and range. If necessary controller adjusts the speed of return pump thereby adjusting the flow rate and pressure within chamber and outlet tube .

The first plate has a first surface and a second surface . In a preferred embodiment the first plate has a first port on a first surface in fluid communications with the second surface . The second surface of the first plate has a raised boundary A defining an enclosure. The boundary A preferably extends substantially perpendicular from the second surface i.e. about 80 100 degrees . Extending from the second surface preferably substantially perpendicularly are raised partitions A. The boundary A surrounds the partitions A. One end of each partition A extends and contacts the boundary A.

The second plate has a first surface and a second surface . In a preferred embodiment the second plate preferably has a second port on a first surface in fluid communications with the second surface . The second surface of the back plate has a raised boundary B defining an enclosure. The boundary B preferably extends substantially perpendicular from the second surface i.e. about 80 100 degrees . Extending from the second surface preferably substantially perpendicular are raised partitions B . The boundary B surrounds the partitions B. One end of each partition A extends and contacts one side of boundary B .

The joining of the second surfaces of the first and second plates results in a fluid tight junction between boundaries A and B thereby forming boundary . Partitions A and B are also joined forming a fluid tight junction thereby forming partition . The boundary forms an irradiation chamber and together with the partitions provides a pathway having channels for conducting fluid. The pathway maybe serpentine zig zag or dove tailed. Currently preferred is a serpentine pathway.

With reference to irradiation chamber comprises a serpentine pathway for conducting patient fluid such as buffy coat or white blood cells from inlet port to outlet port i.e. the serpentine pathway is in fluid communication with inlet port of front plate and outlet port of back plate . Patient fluid is supplied from cassette to inlet port via outlet tube . After photoactivation and passing through serpentine pathway the treated patient fluid is returned to cassette via inlet tube . The patient fluid is driven by recirculation pump . Self shielding effects of the cells is reduced while the cells are photoactivated by irradiation impinging upon both sides of irradiation chamber .

Referring to and the leukocyte enriched blood plasma and priming solution are delivered through inlet port of front plate of irradiation chamber into channel . The channel in the irradiation chamber is relatively thin e.g. on the order of approximately 0.04 as distance between two plates in order to present large surface area of leukocyte rich blood to irradiation and reduce the self shielding effects encountered with lower surface area volume ratios. The cross section shape of channel is substantially rectangular e.g. rectangular rhomboidal or trapezoidal which has as its long side the distance between partition and the distance between the plates as its short side. The shape of the cross section is designed for optimal irradiation of cells passing through channel . While a serpentine pathway is preferred in order to avoid or minimize stagnant areas of flow other arrangements are contemplated.

The irradiation chamber allows efficient activation of photoactivatable agents by irradiation from a light array assembly such as the PHOTOSETTE s two banks of UVA lamps for activation . The irradiation plate and UVA light assembly are designed to be used in a setting where edge is oriented downward and edge points upward. In this orientation fluids entering input port can exit from outlet port with the aid of gravity. In the most preferred embodiment irradiation of both sides of the irradiation chamber takes place concurrently while still permitting facile removal of the chamber. UVA light assembly is located within UV chamber of permanent tower system .

The irradiation chamber s fluid pathway loops to form two or more channels in which the leukocyte enriched blood is circulated during photoactivation by UVA light. Preferably irradiation chamber has between 4 to 12 channels. More preferably the irradiation chamber has 6 to 8 channels. Most preferably the irradiation chamber has 8 channels.

The irradiation chamber of the present invention can be made from a biocompatible material and can be sterilized by known methods such as heating radiation exposure or treatment with ethylene oxide ETO .

The method of irradiating cells using irradiation chamber during extracorporeal treatment of cells with electromagnetic radiation UVA to be used in the treatment of a patient such as to induce apoptosis in the cells and administer the cells into the patient will now be discussed. Preferably the cells treated will be white cells.

In one embodiment of this method a photoactivatable or photosensitive compound is first administered to at least a portion of the blood of a recipient prior to the extracorporeal treatment of the cells. The photoactivatable or photosensitive compound may be administered in vivo e.g. orally or intravenously . The photosensitive compound when administered in vivo may be administered orally but also may be administered intravenously and or by other conventional administration routes. The oral dosage of the photosensitive compound may be in the range of about 0.3 to about 0.7 mg kg. more specifically about 0.6 mg kg.

When administered orally the photosensitive compound may be administered at least about one hour prior to the photopheresis treatment and no more than about three hours prior to the photopheresis treatment. If administered intravenously the times would be shorter. Alternatively the photosensitive compound may be administered prior to or contemporaneously with exposure to ultraviolet light. The photosensitive compound may be administered to whole blood or a fraction thereof provided that the target blood cells or blood components receive the photosensitive compound. A portion of the blood could first be processed using known methods to substantially remove the erythrocytes and the photoactive compound may then be administered to the resulting enriched leukocyte fraction. In one embodiment the blood cells comprise white blood cells specifically T cells.

The photoactivatable or photosensitive compound may in the case of some psoralens be capable of binding to nucleic acids upon activation by exposure to electromagnetic radiation of a prescribed spectrum e.g. ultraviolet light.

Photoactive compounds may include but are not limited to compounds known as psoralens or furocoumarins as well as psoralen derivatives such as those described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 321 919 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 719. The photoactivatable or photosensitive compounds that may be used in accordance with the present invention include but are not limited to psoralen and psoralen derivatives 8 methoxypsoralen 4 5 8 trimethylpsoralen 5 methoxypsoralen 4 methylpsoralen 4 4 dimethylpsoralen 4 5 dimethylpsoralen 4 aminomethyl 4 5 8 trimethylpsoralen 4 hydroxymethyl 4 5 8 trimethylpsoralen 4 8 methoxypsoralen and a 4 omega amino 2 oxa alkyl 4 5 8 trimethylpsoralen including but not limited to 4 4 amino 2 oxa butyl 4 5 8 trimethylpsoralen. In one embodiment the photosensitive compound that may be used comprises the psoralen derivative amotosalen S 59 Cerus Corp. Concord Calif. . See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 552 286 6 469 052 and 6 420 570. In another embodiment the photosensitive compound that may be used in accordance with the invention comprises 8 methoxypsoralen.

Methoxsalen is a naturally occurring photoactive substance found in the seed of the Ammi majus umbelliferae plant . It belongs to a class of compounds known as psoralens or furocoumarins. The chemical name is 9 methoxy 7H furo 3 2 g 1 benzopyran 7 one. The formulation of the drug is a sterile liquid at a concentration of 20 mcg mL in a 10 mL vial. See http www.therakos.com TherakosUS pdf uvadexpi.pdf. Toxicology studies of extracorporeal photopheresis and different dosages of UVADEX and ultraviolet light in beagle dogs is located in the investigator s brochure.

Next the portion of the subject s blood recipient s blood or the donor s blood to which the photoactive compound has been administered is treated by subjecting the portion of the blood to photopheresis using ultraviolet light. The photopheresis treatment may be carried out using long wavelength ultraviolet light UVA at a wavelength within the range of 320 to 400 nm. Such a range is not limiting however but is merely provided as an example. The exposure to ultraviolet light during the photopheresis treatment may have a duration of sufficient length to deliver for example about 1 2 J cmto the blood.

The photopheresis step is carried out in vitro by installing irradiation chamber into photoactivation chamber of permanent tower system . In one embodiment when the photopheresis step is carried out in vitro at least a fraction of the treated blood is returned to the subject recipient or donor. The treated blood or the treated enriched leukocyte fraction as the case may be may then be administered back to the subject recipient or donor.

The photopheresis process consists of three phases including 1 the collection of a buffy coat fraction leukocyte enriched 2 irradiation of the collected buffy coat fraction and 3 reinfusion of the treated white blood cells. This process will be discussed below in greater detail. Generally whole blood is centrifuged and separated in centrifuge bowl . A total of approximately 240 ml of buffy coat and 300 ml of plasma are separated and saved for UVA irradiation.

The collected plasma and buffy coat are mixed with heparinized normal saline and UVADEX . water soluble 8 methoxypsoralin . This mixture flows in a 1.4 mm thick layer through the irradiation chamber of the present invention. The irradiation chamber is inserted in photoactivation chamber of tower system between two banks of UVA lamps of the PHOTOSETTE . PHOTOSETTE UVA lamps irradiate both sides of this UVA transparent irradiation chamber permitting exposure to ultraviolet A light yielding an average exposure per lymphocyte of 1 2 J cm. Following the photoactivation period the cells are removed from the irradiation chamber .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the cells are removed by the action of gravity and any cells remaining in the chamber are displaced from the chamber with additional fluid selected from the group consisting of saline plasma and combinations thereof. For patients who are small such as children e.g. under 30 kg or patients whose vascular system is easily overloaded with fluids the amount of additional fluid used to was the irradiation chamber will preferably be not more than 2 the volume of the chamber preferably not more than 1 the volume of the chamber more preferably not more than 0.5 the volume of the chamber 0.25 the volume of the chamber. The treated cells volume is reinfused to the patient.

For a description of similar photopheresis systems and methods see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 480 893 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference. Also useful herein are the methods and systems described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 951 509 5 985 914 5 984 887 4 464 166 4 428 744 4 398 906 4 321 919 PCT Publication Nos. WO 97 36634 and WO 97 36581 all of which are entirely expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The effective amount of light energy that is delivered to the biological fluids may be determined using the methods and systems described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 584 which is entirely expressly incorporated herein by reference. Indeed the application of ECP to the various diseases described herein may require an adjustment of the amount of light energy to optimize the treatment process.

Furthermore the photosensitizing agent used in the ECP process may be removed prior to returning the treated biological fluid to the patient. For example Methoxsalen UVADEX is utilized in the ECP process. Methoxsalen belong to a group of compounds known as psoralens. The exposure to methoxsalen or other psoralens may cause undesirable effects on the subject recipient or donor such as phototoxicity or other toxic effects associated with psoralen and their decomposition products. Therefore the psoralen psoralen derivatives or psoralen decomposition products that may remain in the biological fluid may be removed after UV exposure. A process for the removal of psoralen biological fluids is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 228 995 which is entirely expressly incorporated herein by reference.

In a specific embodiment the present invention relates to methods and apparatus that separate fluid components such as for example the components of a biological fluid by density or weight. Biological fluids encompass fluids that comprise exist in or are used in or delivered to living organisms. Indeed biological fluids may comprise bodily fluids and their components such as blood cells plasma and other fluids that comprise biological components including living organisms such as bacteria cells or other cellular components. Biological fluids may also comprise whole blood or specific whole blood components including red blood cells platelets white blood cells and precursor cells. In particular it may be desirable to remove blood from a patient for treatment such as for example extracorporeal treatment. It is to be understood however that the present invention is adaptable to use with various centrifugal processing apparatus and the specific example given herein is merely for illustrative purposes. Other uses for the separation techniques and apparatus may include other medical processes such as dialysis chemotherapy platelet separation and removal and separation and removal of other specific cells. Additionally the present invention may be used to separate other types of fluids that include a wide variety of non medical uses such as for example oil and fluid component separation. All components used in the present invention should not adversely affect biological fluids or render them unsuitable for their intended uses such as those described herein and may be made of any suitable material compatible with uses described herein including but not limited to plastics such as polycarbonate methyl methacrylate styrene acrylonitrile acrylic styrene acrylonitrile or any other plastic. Where parts of the present invention are indicated to be attached together and form a fluid tight seal any appropriate conventional means of joining the parts may be used including but not limited to adhesives ultrasonic welding or RF welding.

The present invention has several advantages over centrifuges what use conventional Latham bowl. The Latham bowl in the UVAR XTS system has one inlet port that allows whole blood to come into the bowl and one outlet port that allows plasma and buffy coat to come out. Having only two ports limits the volume of buffy coat that can be collected per cycle. Each cycle involves filling the bowl with whole blood 2 spinning the bowl to separate whole blood into plasma buffy coat and red blood cells 3 collecting buffy coat for treatment 4 bringing the bowl to rest and 5 returning collected plasma and red blood cells. This buffy coat collection method may be characterized as being batch like as the volume of buffy coat required for irradiation treatment can only be collected after several cycles of buffy coat collection. The limited volume of collected buffy coat per cycle results from the accumulated red blood cells remained inside the bowl. Thus the accumulated red blood cells that can only be emptied at the end of a buffy coat collection cycle is an inherent limitation of the Latham Bowl.

The bowl of the instant invention has three separate fluid conduits that can be used as an inlet port and two outlet ports. The additional fluid conduits allows for 1 reduce patient treatment time by having continuous spinning during the entire buffy coat collection process without having to stop spinning the bowl for removal of accumulated red blood cells 2 treat small blood volume patients by having collected red blood cells returned to patients continuously these patients may be more amenable to medical treatments requiring the use of the buffy coat or fractions thereof such as extracorporeal photopheresis 3 better separation of different components of fractions of cells within the buffy coat due to the increased spinning or rotation time and 4 the ability to separate high density red blood cells fractions from whole blood. This centrifuge bowl also provides the opportunity for reduced treatment time for any medical procedure requiring buffy coat fractions to be collected from patients that are substantially free of red blood cells such as extra corporeal photopheresis.

To achieve the objects in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described herein depict specific embodiments of the present invention. The embodiment depicted in comprises a centrifuge bowl A conduit assembly A frame A and stationary restraint A. The centrifuge bowl A is in fluid communications with external conduit A of conduit assembly A. Lower sleeve end A of connection sleeve A is secured to bowl A. Upper sleeve end A of connection sleeve A is secured to external conduit A connecting the external conduit A to bowl A and providing fluid communications from external conduit A to bowl A. The fluid communications enables fluid to be supplied through external conduit A to the bowl A. Similarly this fluid communications also enables separated fluid components and to be removed from bowl A through external conduit A. Bowl A and frame A are adapted to be rotated around center axis A.

Referring to bowl A comprises outer housing A connection sleeve A top core A bottom core A and housing floor A. Outer housing A may be constructed of any suitable biocompatible material as previously described for the purpose of the illustration in the outer housing A is constructed of clear plastic so that cores A and A are visible there through. Outer housing A is attached to a housing floor A which in turn comprises protrusions A for locking bowl A into a rotational device such as rotational device A. Bowl A is preferably simplified in construction and is easy to manufacture by molding or other known manufacturing processes such that it may be disposable or used for a limited number of treatments and is most preferably capable of containing about 125 ml of fluid such fluid possibly being pressurized. In alternative embodiments the volume capacity of the bowl may vary depending upon the health of the patient and his or her allowable extracorporeal volume. The volume capacity of the bowl may also vary depending upon the use of the bowl or the particular treatment for which the bowl is utilized. Additionally to avoid contamination of biological fluids or exposure of persons involved in the processing operation to the fluids the transfer operations are preferably carried out within a sealed flow system possibly pressurized preferably formed of flexible plastic or similar material which can be disposed of after each use.

As is illustrated in the outer housing A is substantially conical having an upper housing end A an outer housing wall A and a lower housing end A. Outer housing A may be made of plastic such as those plastics listed previously or any other suitable material. Upper housing end A has an outer surface B inner surface C and housing outlet A providing a passage between said surfaces. Preferably the upper housing will also have a neck A formed about the housing outlet A. The housing outlet A and neck A are sized to allow body A of the connection sleeve A to pass through while retaining sleeve flange A which extends from the body A of connection sleeve A. In one embodiment of the present invention an o ring A may be inserted between the sleeve flange A and inner surface C of the housing end A to ensure a fluid tight seal is provided. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention illustrated in a second sleeve flange B extends from the body A of connection sleeve B distal to the sleeve flange A. Both sleeve flange A and B being adapted to fit within neck A and retain o ring A therebetween. A fluid tight seal is provided in this embodiment by the o ring contacting body A and inner surface C of the housing end A adjacent to the neck A. However connection sleeve A can be secured to bowl A by any suitable means including for example a lip groove or tight fit and adhesive with a component of bowl A. The outer housing wall joins the upper housing end A and lower housing end A. Lower housing end A is attached to a housing floor A of greater diameter than upper end A. Housing floor A is adapted to mate with the lower housing end A and provide a fluid tight seal therewith. Any conventional means may be used to secure the lower housing end A to the housing floor A including but not limited to adhesives ultrasonic welding or RF welding. Housing floor A may have an indentation A that is used to collect denser fluid . The diameter of outer housing A increases from upper housing end A to lower housing end A.

Outer housing A is adapted to rotatably connect to a rotational device such as for example a rotor drive system or a rotating bracket . The rotatable connection may for example be a bearing that allows free rotation of bowl A. Outer housing A preferably has a locking mechanism. The locking mechanism may be one or more protrusions A designed to interact with corresponding indentations in a centrifuge container or any other suitable interconnect or locking mechanism or equivalent known in the art. The locking mechanism may also comprise a key slot .

Referring to outer housing A and the base A define an interior volume A in which cores A and A will fit when bowl A is assembled. When fully assembled cores A and A are fully within interior volume A of outer housing A occupying a coaxial volume of interior volume A about axis A.

Referring to and the top core A and bottom core A are substantially conical and respectively have upper core ends A A outer core walls A A and lower core ends A A. The cores A A occupy coaxial volumes of interior volume A of bowl A and forming separation volume A between upper end A and outer wall A of top core A and outer wall A and lower core end A of bottom core A and outer housing A. Separation volume A is that space of interior volume A that is between cores A and A and outer housing A.

As depicted in top core A comprises upper core end A and a lower core end A that are joined by outer core wall A. The outer core wall A having an outer surface B and inner wall surface C and a lower edge D. The diameter of top core A preferably increases from upper core end A to lower core end A. Upper core end A also comprises an outer surface B and an inner surface C. Centrally located about center axis and extending perpendicularly from the upper surface B is lumen connector A. Lumen connector A has a top surface A and a wall surface B. Top surface A has two passages B and D that provide fluid communications through the upper core end A with second bowl channel A and first bowl channel A respectively. Second bowl channel A is a conduit that has a conduit wall A that extends perpendicularly from the inner surface C of lumen connector A.

As shown on A and second bowl channel has fluid communication with conduit channel A through conduit A having a first end B and a second end C that is adapted to fit into passage D of lumen connector A. In operation conduit channel A of external conduit A has fluid communication with bowl channel A. First bowl channel A is a second conduit that has a channel wall A that extends substantially perpendicularly from inner surface C of the lumen connector A. As shown in B and first bowl channel A has fluid communication with conduit channel A of external conduit A through hollow cylinder A having a first end B and a second end C adapted to fit opening B top surface A. As is illustrated in one embodiment of the present invention second bowl channel A is disposed within first bowl channel A. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention illustrated in conduit wall A may be composed of upper part F and lower part G and be fused with channel walls A and A.

Top surface A also has indentation A which provides fluid communications with chamber A. When assembled chamber A is defined by lumen mounting recess A less the volumes occupied by hollow cylinders A and A in the connection junction of connection sleeve A and lumen connector A. Chamber A has fluid communication with conduit channel A and with separation volume A near neck A through indentation A. Thus indentation A forms a passageway for the removal of second separated fluid component through bowl chamber A. Optionally present on the outer surface B are a plurality of spacers A which extend from the outer surface and contact the inner surface C of the upper housing end A to ensure fluid communications between the separation volume A and the passageway formed by the indentations A.

In an alternative embodiment illustrated in and conduits A and A may be affixed to openings D and B in the top surface A of the lumen connector A. Additionally indentations A may form a plurality channels in the lumen connector A and be adapted to form chamber B when connected to connection sleeve A or B. Chamber B is adapted to have one or more surfaces A that can mate with the male end A of the connection sleeve A male end A surrounds end of external conduit A . To facilitate the correct orientation of the connection sleeve A to the lumen connector A the shape of the male end A and chamber B may be nonsymmetrical or as is illustrated in and a guide A may be provided which extends from the top surface of the lumen connector A and is adapted to fit within opening A of the sleeve flange A.

Referring back to the lower core end A comprises an upper plate A having a top surface A a bottom surface A and an edge B that attaches and makes direct contact with lower edge D of the outer core wall A. The edge B of the upper plate A is adapted to be joined with lower edge D of outer core wall A and form a fluid tight seal therewith. Extending perpendicularly from the top surface A of upper plate A is a channel wall A having an upper end B and a lower end C and surrounds opening A which is substantially in the center of upper plate A. A number of fins A attached to the outside surface of channel wall A and top surface A supports lumen wall A. The channel wall A is adapted to mate with channel wall A forming a fluid tight seal and providing lumen A. First bowl channel A is in fluid communications with conduit channel A of external conduit A through conduit A. Opening A provides fluid communications from lumen A to separation volume A as will be further discussed. First bowl channel A also surrounds second bowl channel A.

Referring to B and bottom core A comprises an upper core end A a outer core wall A and a lower core end A. The outer core wall A having an outer surface B an inner wall C and lower edge D. The diameter of bottom core A preferably increases from upper core end A to lower core end A. Bottom core A also has a top surface A and a bottom surface B. Top surface A has an indentation A preferably generally circular substantial in the center of the surface A of the upper core end A. The indentation A has an upper surface B and an inner surface C. The upper surface B of the indentation A has therein an opening D which extends through to the inner surface C. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the upper surface B may also have a recess a D adapted to receive an o ring and form a fluid type seal around the lower end of B of conduit wall A. Extending perpendicularly from inner surface C around said opening D is conduit wall A having a distal end B. On the top surface A extending from the indentation A to the outer surface B of the outer core wall A are one or more channels A. The top surface A may be horizontal or slope upward or downward from indentation A. If top surface A slopes upward or downward from indentation A to core end A one skilled in the art would be able to adjust the shapes of upper plate A and upper core end A accordingly. Channels A may have an even depth through out the length of the channel A. However channel A may slope downward or upward radially from the center. One skilled in the art would see that if top surface A slopes upward or downward and channel A has a constant depth then channel A slopes upward or downward accordingly.

Referring to the bottom surface A of upper plate A is in direct contact with the top surface area A of bottom core A when completely assembled. This contact forms a fluid tight seal between the two surface areas forming an opening B from the indentation A to channel A. A second opening C from channel A is formed in the outer surface B of outer core wall A. The opening B provides fluid communications from indentation A through channel A and opening C to separation volume A . Thus fluid flows through conduit channel A and subsequently passes through first bowl channel A. From first bowl channel A fluid then goes to through channel A to the separation volume A.

Referring to the lower core end A has a lower plate A which has a top surface B a bottom surface C and outer edge D. Extending from the bottom surface C of the lower plate are one or more protrusions A. The outer edge D is adapted to be attached to the lower edge D of the outer core wall A and provide a fluid tight seal therewith. Positioned above housing floor A lower plate A is circular and curves upward radially from its center illustrated in . Alternatively lower plate A can be flat. As shown in when positioned above housing floor A a volume C exists between lower plate A and housing floor A. This volume C is in fluid communication with separation volume A. Lower plate A may be made of plastic or any other suitable material. Additionally extending substantially perpendicularly from the lower surface C of lower plate A is a conduit A. Conduit A has a first end B that extends into the space C between lower plate A and housing floor A and a second end C that extends above the top surface B of lower plate A. The diameter of conduit A is adapted to have a tight fit with conduit wall end B. The volume inside conduit walls A and A comprises a lumen B. The volume defined by lower plate A inner surface C and ceiling A of bottom core A excluding second bowl channel A may comprise of air or a solid material See .

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in support walls A and A may be optionally present. Support wall A extends perpendicularly from bottom surface B. Support wall A extends perpendicularly from the top surface B of lower plate A and connects with support wall A when the bottom core A is assembled. Conduit wall A may be connected to conduit A to form a fluid tight seal and conduits A A may be fused respectively with supports walls A and A. Additionally present extending from the bottom surface C of lower plate A are one or more orientation spacers A that mate within indentation A.

As will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the bowl A will need to be balanced about center axis A. Accordingly weights may be added as part of the device as is appropriate to facilitate the balancing of the bowl A such as weight A illustrated in .

Referring to bowl A is adapted so that outer housing A cores A and A lower plate A and upper plate A housing floor A external conduits A and connection sleeve A and lumens A and B are in connection and rotate together. Housing floor A of outer housing A comprises recesses A on its top surface and these recesses are shaped to fit protrusion A of lower plate A. As shown lower plate A has round protrusion A on its bottom surface C to restrict movement of lower plate A with respect to housing floor A. When assembled each single protrusion A on the bottom surface of lower plate A forms a tight fit with recess A on housing floor A. Thus when outer housing A is rotated external conduit A and connection sleeve A top core A upper plate A bottom core A lower plate A housing floor A and lumens A and B will rotate therewith.

As illustrated in lumen A allows whole blood to come into bowl A via a first bowl channel A. First bowl channel A provides a passageway for inflow of fluid through lumen A to indention A and then to the separation volume A through channel A. Lumen A is located inside top core A. Lumen A has a height from upper lumen end A and lower lumen end C. Lumen A is formed by the connection of channel wall A extending from the inner surface C of lumen connector A and channel wall A extending from the top surface A of upper plate A. Channel wall A is supported by a plurality of fins A which are attached to the inner wall surface C of the outer core wall A and inner surface C of the upper core end A and channel wall A is supported by a plurality of fins A . It can readily be seen that height of lumen A can be adjusted by changing the sizes and shapes of core A channel wall A channel wall A conduit wall A and the height of conduit wall A.

As illustrated in lumen A from upper lumen end A to lower lumen end C encloses an inner lumen B. Lower lumen end C has an opening A which is in fluid communication with separation volume A through a number of channel A. In the illustrated embodiment lumen A comprises first bowl channel A. Second bowl channel A is located inside first bowl channel A of the top core A and is enclosed therein from lumen end A and to lumen C. Furthermore second bowl channel A forms a passageway through lumen B from below lower plate A for the removal of a first separated fluid component that gathers in indentation A of housing floor A. Second bowl channel A extends from housing floor A of outer housing A through lumen B and to conduit channel A of external conduit A.

Referring shown without conduit C inner lumen B allows red blood cells to exit bowl A via a second bowl channel A that provides fluid communication from the housing floor above indentation A to opening E. Inner lumen B has an upper conduit end C and a lower conduit end B and comprises two conduit walls A and A which are connected in a fluid tight manner and form second bowl channel A that has a smaller diameter than and is separate and distinct from first bowl channel A. Conduit wall A is supported by a fin A that extends through channel wall A and attaches to conduit wall A. Unlike lumen A which has one end near indentation A lumen B extends beyond indentation A and through bottom plate A. The first conduit wall A has an upper end C which has an opening D on the top surface A of lumen connector A and a lower end B having an opening E adapted to fit tightly with upper end C of conduit wall A. Upper end C of conduit wall A is higher than indentation A and has an opening D. Conduit wall A also has end lower end B and is supported by a plurality of fins A. Lower end B having opening E is adapted to connect to conduit A having opening A located near the center of lower plate A. The connection of openings E and A provide fluid communication between lumen B and the space C between lower plate A and housing floor A. The space C between lower plate A and housing floor A in turn has fluid communication with separation volume A.

Conduit A provides a tight fit with lower end B providing support for second bowl channel A. Each bowl channel A and A may be made of any type of flexible or rigid tubing such as medical tubing or other such device providing a sealed passageway possibly for pressurized or unpressurized fluid flow and which preferably can be disposable and sterilizable i.e. of simple and efficient manufacture.

As illustrated in conduit assembly A is attached to bowl A via connection sleeve A which is attached onto the first end A of external conduit A having a first conduit channel A a second conduit channel A and a third conduit channel A. Each conduit channel has fluid communication with a first bowl channel A a second bowl channel A and a bowl chamber A. The three conduit channels are equally spaced 120 apart and equal in diameter in external conduit A See . When fluidly connect to external conduit A and bowl A conduit channel A is fluidly connected with first bowl channel A for inflowing fluid from external conduit A into bowl A for separation. Similarly second conduit channel A fluidly connects to second bowl channel A for removing first separated fluid component from bowl A into external conduit A. Finally third conduit channel A connects to bowl chamber A for removing second separated fluid component from bowl A.

As is illustrated in external conduit A has a connection sleeve A on the first end A and an anchor sleeve A on the second end A of external conduit A. Optionally present between the connection sleeve A and the anchor sleeve A on external conduit A are a first shoulder and a second shoulder which extend perpendicularly from the external conduit A and are of a larger diameter. Between the connection sleeve A and anchor sleeve A or if present the first and second shoulder are a first and second bearing rings A and A. External conduit A anchor sleeve A and connection sleeve may be prepared from the same or different biocompatible materials of suitable strength and flexibility for use in this type of tubing in a centrifuge one such preferred material is HYTREL . The connection sleeve A and the anchor sleeve A may be attached through any suitable means such as adhesives welding etc. however for ease of manufacture it is preferred that the connection sleeve A and the anchor sleeve A be overmolded to the external conduit A.

Referring to and anchor sleeve A comprises a body B having a first anchor end A and second anchor end A. Anchor sleeve A is attached to second conduit end A of external conduit A preferably by overmolding and increases in diameter from first collar A to the collar A. Spaced distally from second end A is a collar A which extends perpendicularly from body B and of a larger diameter than the body B of the anchor sleeve A. A plurality of ribs A having a first rib end B between the collar A and second anchor end A and a second rib end C extending beyond the first anchor end A are attached to the body B. The second rib ends C are joined together by a ring A which is also attached to external conduit A. The ribs A run parallel to the external conduit A and are preferably placed over the region where conduit channels A A and A are closest to the surface of the external conduit A . The regions where the conduit channels A A and A are closest to the outside diameter of external conduit A unless reinforced tend to fail during high speed rotation. Having ribs parallel with the conduit channels beyond the anchor sleeve end A provides reinforcement to this region and prevents conduit failure at high speed rotation. In one aspect the ribs prevent the buckling of the external conduit A in this region and act as structural elements to transfer the torsional stress to the anchor sleeve A.

Connection sleeve A comprises body A having an upper sleeve end A and lower sleeve end A . Lower sleeve end A has sleeve flange A and a plurality of protrusions A which are sized to engage indentations A on the wall surface A of lumen connector A. When the bowl A is assembled a fluid tight seal may be provided by placing o ring A around body A and compressing the o ring A between flange A and housing A. Upper sleeve end A is adapted to be secured to external conduit A. Referring to A and B connection sleeve A is secured to bowl A by means of sleeve flange A and is adapted to fluidly connect conduit channels A A A of external conduit A to bowl channels A and A and chamber A of bowl A. When assembled connection sleeve A is mounted to lumen connector A .

Connection sleeve A preferably increases in diameter from upper sleeve end A to lower sleeve end A and is overmolded to first conduit end A of external conduit A. Connection sleeve A connects bowl A to external conduit A without use of a rotatable seal which would otherwise normally be located between bowl A and connection sleeve A. The seal less connection between bowl A and connection sleeve A may occur as explained above or alternatively through use of for example an O ring a groove or lip grommet type connection welding or a tight fit with or without adhesive in either bowl A or connection sleeve A.

As illustrated in sleeve flange A has a bottom surface A that contacts with top surface A of lumen connector A forming a tight seal. However lumen connector A has a plurality of indentation A that provides for fluid communication between separation chamber A and bowl chamber A which in turn has fluid communication with conduit channel A. Bowl chamber A is defined by lumen mounting recess A and top surface A of lumen connector A excluding the space occupied by hollow cylinders A and A. A plurality of protrusions A on the bottom surface A of sleeve flange A engages and slides into indentations A on the wall surface B of lumen connector A thus providing a tight fit.

Connection sleeve A helps to secure external conduit A to bowl A thus fluidly connecting external conduit A to bowl A. This fluid connection enables fluid to be supplied through external conduit A to bowl A. Similarly this fluid connection also enables separated fluid components b to be removed from bowl A through external conduit A.

External conduit A has an approximately constant diameter which helps to reduce the rigidity. An excessively rigid external conduit A will heat up and fail more quickly. Additionally a constant diameter conduit is cheap easy to manufacture allows easy experimentation with connection sleeve A and anchor sleeve A sizes and allows bearing rings A A to be easily slid thereon. Preferably the movement of bearings A and A will be constrained by first and second shoulders A and A. External conduit A may be made of any type of flexible tubing such as medical tubing or other such device providing a sealed passageway for the flow of fluids which may be pressurized into or out of a reservoir of any sort and which preferably can be disposable and sterilizable.

Tower system has a housing having an upper portion and a base portion . Base portion has a top and a bottom . Wheels are provided at or near the bottom of base portion so that tower system is mobile and can easily be moved from room to room in a hospital setting. Preferably the front wheels are pivotable about a vertical axis to allow ease in steering and maneuvering tower system . Top of base portion has a top surface having control deck best illustrated in built therein see . In cassette is loaded onto control deck . Base portion also has hooks not illustrated or other connectors to hang plasma collection bag and treatment bag therefrom. Such hooks can be located anywhere on tower system so long as their positioning does not interfere with the functioning of the system during therapy. Base portion has photoactivation chamber located behind door . Additional hooks not illustrated are provided on tower system for hanging saline and anticoagulant bags. Preferably these hooks are located on upper portion .

Photoactivation chamber is provided in base portion of tower system between top and bottom behind door . Door is hingedly connected to base portion and is provided for access to photoactivation chamber and to allow the operator to close photoactivation chamber so that UV light does not escape into the surrounding during treatment. Recess is provided to allow tubes to pass into photoactivation chamber when irradiation chamber is loaded and when door is closed. The photoactivation chamber is discussed in detail below with respect to .

Upper portion is located atop base portion . Centrifuge chamber is located in upper portion behind centrifuge chamber door . Centrifuge chamber door has a window so an operator can see in centrifuge chamber and monitor for any problems. Window is constructed with glass thick enough to withstand any forces that may be exerted on it from an accident during centrifugation which can rotate the centrifuge bowl at speeds greater than 4800 RPMs. Preferably window is constructed of shatter proof glass. Door is hingedly connected to upper portion and has an automatic locking mechanism that is activated by the system controller during system operation. Centrifuge chamber is discussed below in more detail with respect to .

Preferably deck is located on top surface of base portion at or near the front of system tower while upper portion is extending upward from base portion near the rear of tower system . This allows the operator easy access to control deck while simultaneously affording the operator access to centrifuge chamber . By designing tower system to have the centrifuge chamber in the upper portion and having the photoactivation chamber and deck in base portion an upright configuration is achieved. As such system tower has a reduced footprint size and takes up a reduced amount of valuable hospital floor space. The height of system tower remains below sixty inches so that one view is not obstructed when transporting the machine around the hospital form the rear. Additionally having deck in a fairly horizontal position will provide the operator with a place to set devices of photopheresis kit during the loading of other devices facilitating easy loading. Tower system is robust enough to withstand forces and vibrations brought on by the centrifugation process.

A monitor is provided on centrifuge chamber door above window . Monitor has a display area for visually displaying data to an operator such as for example user interfaces for data entry loading instructions graphics warnings alerts therapy data or therapy progress. Monitor is coupled to and controlled by the system controller. A data card receiving port is provided on a side of monitor . Data card receiving port is provided to slidably receive data card which is supplied with each disposable photopheresis kit . As mentioned above data card can be pre programmed to store serve a variety of data to supply to the system controller of tower system . For example data card can be programmed to relay information so that the system controller can ensure 1 that the disposable photopheresis kit is compatible with the blood drive equipment into which it is being loaded 2 that the photopheresis kit is capable of running the desired treatment process 3 that the disposable photopheresis kit is of a certain brand name or make. Data card receiving port has the necessary hardware and circuitry to both read data from and write data to data card . Preferably data card receiving port will record treatment therapy data to data card . Such information can include for example collection times collection volumes treatment times volumetric flow rates any alarms malfunctions disturbances in the process or any other desired data. While data card receiving port is provided on monitor it can be located anywhere on tower system so long as it is coupled to the system controller or other appropriate control means.

Referring now to photoactivation chamber is illustrated in cross section. Photoactivation chamber is formed by housing . Housing fits within base portion of tower system behind door . Photoactivation chamber has a plurality of electrical connection ports provided on back wall . Electrical connection ports are electrically coupled to a source of electrical energy. Photoactivation chamber is designed to receive UVA light assembly . When fully loaded into photoactivation chamber electrical contacts not illustrated located on contact wall of UVA light assembly form an electrical connection with electrical connection ports . This electrical connection allows electrical energy to be supplied to UVA lamps so that they can be activated. Preferably three electrical connection ports are provided for each set of UVA lamps . More preferably UVA light assembly has two sets of UVA lamps forming a space which irradiation chamber can be inserted. The supply of electrical energy to UVA lamps is controlled by the properly programmed system controller using a switch. UVA lamps are activated and deactivated as necessary by the controller during the photopheresis therapy session.

Vent hole is provided in the top of housing near back wall of photoactivation chamber . Vent hole connects to vent duct which leads out of the back of tower system . When heat generated by UVA lamps builds up in photoactivation chamber during a treatment therapy this heat escapes photoactivation chamber via vent hole and vent duct . The heat exits tower system through tower housing hole located in the rear of tower system away from the patient and the operator.

Photoactivation chamber further comprises tract for receiving irradiation chamber and holding irradiation in an upright position between UVA lamps . Tract is at or near the bottom of photoactivation chamber . Preferably a leak detector circuit is provided below tract to detect any fluid leaks irradiation chamber during before or after operation. Leak detector circuit has two electrodes patterned in a U shape located on an adhesive backed flex circuit. The electrodes are designed to allow for application of a short circuit to test for discontinuities. One end of each electrode goes to an integrated circuit while the other end of each electrode is tied to a solid state switch. The solid state switch can be used to check for continuity of the electrodes. By closing the switch the electrodes are shorted to one another. The integrated circuit then detects the short. Closing the switch causes a situation equivalent to the electrodes getting wet i.e. a leak . IN If the electrodes are damaged in any way the continuity check will fail. This is a positive indication that the electrodes are not damaged. This test can be performed each time at system start up or periodically during normal operation to ensure that leak detection circuit is working properly. Leak detection circuit helps ensure that leaks do not go unnoticed during an entire therapy session because the leak detection circuit is damaged. An electrical schematic of leak detector circuit is provided in .

Leak detection circuit is provided on back wall of housing . Leak detection circuit is provided to detect any leaks within centrifuge bowl or the connecting tubes during processing. Leak detection circuit is identical to leak detector circuit described above. An electrical schematic of leak detection circuit is provided in .

Deck has five peristaltic pumps whole blood pump return pump recirculation pump anticoagulant pump and red blood cell pump extending through plate . Pumps are arranged on plate so that when cassette is loaded onto deck for operation pump loop tubes extend over and around pumps .

Air bubble sensor assembly and HCT sensor assembly are provided on plate . Air bubble sensor assembly has three trenches for receiving tubes and . Air bubble sensor assembly uses ultrasonic energy to monitor tubes and for differences in density that would indicate the presence of air in the liquid fluids normally passing therethrough. Tubes and are monitored because these lines go to the patient. Air bubble sensor assembly is operably coupled and transmits data to the system controller for analysis. If an air bubble is detected the system controller will shut down operation and prohibit fluid flow into the patient by occluding tubes and by moving compression actuators to a raised position thereby compressing tubes and against cassette as discussed above and or shutting down the appropriate pump. HCT sensor assembly has trench for receiving HCT component of tube . HCT sensor assembly monitors tube for the presence of red blood cells by using a photoelectric sensor. HCT sensor assembly is also operably coupled to and transmits data to the system controller. Upon HCT sensor assembly detecting the presence of red blood cells in tube the system controller will take the appropriate action such as stopping the appropriate pump or activating one of compression actuators to stop fluid flow through tube .

Deck also has five compression actuators and three compression actuators strategically positioned on plate so that when cassette is loaded onto deck for operation each of compression actuators are aligned with corresponding apertures and . Compression actuators can be moved between a lowered position and a raised position. As illustrated in compression actuators are in the lowered position and compression actuators are in the raised position. When in a raised position and when cassette is loaded onto deck as illustrated in compression actuators will extend through the corresponding apertures or and compress the portion of flexible tubing that is aligned with that aperture thereby pinching the flexible tube shut so that fluid can not pass. When in the lowered position compression actuators do not extend through apertures and and thus do compress the flexible tubing.

Compression actuators are spring retracted so that their default position is to move to the lowered position unless activated. Compression actuators are independently controlled and can be raised r lowered independent of one another. Compression actuators on the other hand are coupled together. As such when one compression actuator is lowered or raised the other two compression actuators are also lowered in raised accordingly. Additionally compression actuators are spring loaded so that their default position is to move to the raised position. Thus if the system loses power during a therapy session compression actuators will automatically move to the raised position occluding tubes and and preventing fluids from entering or leaving the patient.

Referring now to deck further includes system controller cylinder assembly manifold assemblies pump cable pump motor cable and timing belt assembly . System controller is a properly programmed integrated circuit that is operably coupled to the necessary components of the system to perform all of the functions interactions decisions and reaction discussed above and necessary to perform a photopheresis therapy according to the present invention. Cylinder assembly couples each of compression actuators to a pneumatic cylinder. Air ports are provided on the various elements of deck as necessary to connect air lines to the devices and the appropriate one of manifolds . As such air can be provided to the devices as necessary to actuate the necessary component such as compression valves . All of these functions and timing are controlled by system controller . Timing belt assembly is used to coordinate the rotation of rotating clamps . Finally plate includes a plurality of holes and so that the various components of deck can be properly loaded into and so that deck can be secured to tower system . Specifically pumps fit into holes HCT sensor assembly fits into hole air bubble detector assembly fits into hole compression actuators extend through holes and bolts extend through holes to secure deck to tower assembly .

Referring now to the method by which cassette is loaded and secured to deck will now be discussed. In order for system to perform a photopheresis therapy cassette must be properly loaded onto deck . Because of the compression actuator valving system incorporated in the present invention it is imperative that cassette be properly secured to deck and not shift or become dislodged when compression actuators occlude portions of the flexible tubing by compressing the flexible tubing against cover of cassette . However this requirement competes with the desired goals of ease in loading cassette onto deck and reducing operator errors. All of these goals are achieved by the below described cassette clamping mechanism.

In order to facilitate clamping of cassette to deck deck is provided with two catches and two rotating clamps and . Catches have a slot near the middle of the top plate. Catches are secured to plate at predetermined positions so that the spacing between them is substantially the same as the spacing between tabs and on cassette . Rotating clamps and are illustrated in a closed position. However rotating clamps and can be rotated to an open position not illustrated manually or through the automatic actuation of a pneumatic cylinder. Rotating clamps and are spring loaded by torque springs so as to automatically return to the closed position when additional torque is not being applied. Rotating clamps and are linked together by timing belt assembly .

Referring now to timing belt assembly comprises timing belt torque spring housings and tension assembly . Timing belt assembly coordinates the rotation of rotational clamps and so that if one is rotated the other also rotates in the same direction and the same amount. In other words rotational clamps and are coupled. Tension assembly ensures that timing belt is under sufficient tension to engage and rotate the rotational clamp or that is being coordinated. Torque spring housings provide casings for the torque springs that torque rotational clamps and to the closed position.

Referring back to when loading cassette onto deck cassette is placed at an angle to deck and tabs and are aligned with catches . Cassette is moved so that tabs and slidably insert into catches . Rotational clamps and are in the closed position at this time. The rear of the cassette i.e. the side opposite the tabs and contacts rotational clamps and as tabs and are being inserted in catches . As force is applied downward on cassette rotational clamps and will be rotated to the open position allowing the rear of cassette to move downward to a position below ledges of rotational clamps and . Once cassette is in this position the rotational clamps and spring back from the force applied by the torque springs and rotate back to the closed position locking cassette in place. When in the locked position cassette can resist upward and lateral forces.

To remove cassette after the therapy session is complete rotational clamps and are rotated to the open position either manually or automatically. Automatic rotation is facilitated by an air cylinder that is coupled to an air line and system controller . Once rotational clamps and are in the open position cassette is removed by simple lifting and sliding tabs and out of catches .

Referring to peristaltic pumps are provided on deck and are used to drive fluids through photopheresis kit along desired pathways. The activation deactivation timing speed coordination and all other functions of peristaltic pumps are controlled by system controller . Peristaltic pumps are identical in structure. However the placement of each peristaltic pump on deck dictates the function of each peristaltic pump with respect to which fluid is being driven and along which pathway. This is because the placement of peristaltic pumps dictates which pump loop will be loaded therein.

Referring now to whole blood pump is illustrated in detail. The structure and functioning of whole blood pump will be described with the understanding that peristaltic pumps are identical. Whole blood pump has motor position sensor pneumatic cylinder pneumatic actuator rotor best illustrated in and housing .

Rotor is rotatably mounted within housing and is in operable connection with drive shaft of motor . Specifically rotor is mounted within curved wall of housing so as to be rotatable by motor about axis A A. When rotor is mounted in housing a space exists between rotor and curved wall . This space is the tube pumping region of whole blood pump into which pump loop tube fits when loaded for pumping. Position sensor is coupled to drive shaft of motor so that the rotational position of rotor can be monitored by monitoring drive shaft . Position sensor is operably connected and transmits data to system controller . By analyzing this data system controller which is also coupled to motor can activate motor to place rotor in any desired rotational position.

Housing also includes a housing flange . Housing flange is used to secure whole blood pump to plate of deck . More specifically a bolt is extended through bolt holes of housing flange to threadily engage holes within plate . Housing flange also includes a hole not shown to allow pneumatic actuator to extend therethrough. This hole is sized so that pneumatic actuator can move between a raised and lowered position without considerable resistance. Pneumatic actuator is activated and deactivated by pneumatic cylinder in a piston like manner through the use of air. Pneumatic cylinder comprises air inlet hole for connecting an air supply line. When air is supplied to pneumatic cylinder pneumatic actuator extends upward through housing flange to a raised position. When air ceases to be supplied to pneumatic cylinder pneumatic actuator retracts back into pneumatic cylinder returning to the lowered position. System controller controls the supply of air to air inlet hole .

Curved wall of housing contains two slots only one visible . Slots are located on substantially opposing sides of curved wall . Slots are provided for allowing pump loop tube to pass into tube pumping region . More specifically pump inlet portion and outlet portions of pump loop tube pass through slots .

Turning now to rotor is illustrated as removed from housing so that its components are more clearly visible. Rotor has a top surface angled guide rotor flange two guide rollers two drive rollers and rotor floor . Guide rollers and drive rollers are rotatably secured about cores between rotor floor and a bottom surface of rotor flange . As is best illustrated in cores fit into holes of rotor floor and recesses in bottom surface . Guide rollers and drive rollers fit around cores and can rotate thereabout. Preferably two guide rollers and two drive rollers are provided. More preferably guide rollers and drive rollers are provided on rotor so as to be in an alternating pattern.

Referring to drive rollers are provided to compress the portion of pump loop tube that is loaded into tube pumping region against the inside of curved wall as rotor rotates about axis A A thereby deforming the tube and forcing fluids to flow through the tube. Changing the rotational speed of rotor will correspondingly change the rate of fluid flow through the tube. Guide rollers are provided to keep the portion of pump loop tube that is loaded into tube pumping region properly aligned during pumping. Additionally guide rollers help to properly load pump tube loop into tube pumping region . While guide rollers are illustrated as having a uniform cross section it is preferred that the top plate of the guide rollers be tapered so as to come to a sharper edge near its outer diameter. Tapering the top plate results in a guide roller with a non symmetric cross sectional profile. The tapered embodiment helps ensure proper loading of the tubing into the tube pumping region.

Rotor further includes cavity extending through its center. Cavity is designed to connect rotor to drive shaft of motor .

Referring now to rotor flange has opening . Opening is defined by a leading edge and a trailing edge . The terms leading and trailing are used assuming that rotating rotor in the clockwise direction is the forward direction while rotating rotor in a counterclockwise direction is the rearward direction. However the invention is not so limited and can be modified for counterclockwise pumps. Leading edge is beveled downward into opening . Trailing edge extends upward from the top surface of rotor flange higher than the leading edge . Leading edge is provide for trailing edge for capturing and feeding pump loop tube into tube pumping region upon rotor being rotated in the forward direction.

Rotor also has angled guide extending upward at an inverted angle from rotor flange . Angled guide is provided for displacing pump loop tube toward rotor flange upon rotor being rotated in the forward direction. Preferably angled guide has elevated ridge running along top surface for manual engagement by an operator if necessary. More preferably angled guide is located forward of leading edge .

Referring now to whole blood pump can automatically load and unload pump lop tube into and out of tube pumping region . Using position sensor rotor is rotated to a loading position where angled guide will face cassette when cassette is loaded onto deck . More specifically rotor is preset in a position so that angled guide is located between inlet portion and outlet portion of pump loop when cassette is secured to the deck as is illustrated in . When cassette is secured to deck pump lop tube extends over and around rotor . Pneumatic actuator is in the lowered position at this time.

Once cassette is properly secured and the system is ready rotor is rotated in the clockwise direction i.e. the forward direction . As rotor rotates pump tube loop is contacted by angled guide and displaces against the top surface of rotor flange . The portions of pump loop tube that are displaced against rotor flange are then contacted by trailing edge and fed downward into tube pumping region through opening . A guide roller is provided directly after opening to further properly position the tubing within tube pumping chamber for pumping by drive rollers . When loaded inlet portion and outlet portion of pump loop tube pass through slots of curved wall . One and a half revolutions are needed to fully load the tubing.

To automatically unload pump tube loop from whole blood pump after the therapy is complete rotor is rotated to a position where opening is aligned with the slot through which outlet portion passes. Once aligned pneumatic actuator is activated and extended to the raised position contacting and lifting outlet portion to a height above trailing edge . Rotor is then rotated in the counterclockwise direction causing trailing edge to to contact and remove pump loop tube from tube pumping region via opening .

Referring to tower system preferably further includes a wireless infrared IR communication interface not shown . The wireless IR interface consists of three primary elements system controller IRDA protocol integrated circuit and IRDA transceiver port . The IR communication interface is capable of both transmitting and receiving data via IR signals from a remote computer or other device having IR capabilities. In sending data system controller sends serial communication data to the IRDA protocol chip to buff the data. IRDA protocol chip adds additional data and other communication information to the transmit string and then sends it to IRDA transceiver . Transceiver converts the electrical transmit data into encoded light pulses and transmits them to a remote device via a photo transmitter.

In receiving data IR data pulses are received by a photo detector located on the transceiver chip . The transceiver chip converts the optical light pulses to electrical data and sends the data stream to IRDA protocol chip where the electrical signal is stripped of control and additional IRDA protocol content. The remaining data is then sent to the system controller where the data stream is parsed per the communication protocol.

By incorporating an IR communication interface on tower system real time data relating to a therapy session can be transmitted to a remote device for recording analysis or further transmission. Data can be sent via IR signals to tower system to control the therapy or allow protocols to be changed in a blinded state. Additionally IR signals do not interfere with other hospital equipment like other wireless transmission methods such as radio frequency.

Referring together to a flow chart illustrating an embodiment of the invention which includes photactivation of buffy coat and a schematic representation of apparatus which can be employed in such an embodiment the process starts with a patient connected by means of a needle adapter carrying a needle for drawing blood and needle adapter carrying another needle for returning treated blood and other fragments. Saline bag is connected by connector and anticoagulant bag is connected by connector . Actuators and are opened anticoagulant pump is turned on and saline actuator is opened so that the entire disposable tubing set is primed with saline and anticoagulant . The centrifuge is turned on and blood anticoagulant mixture is pumped to the centrifuge bowl with the A C pump and WB pump controlled at a 1 10 speed ratio.

When the collected volume reaches 150 ml the return pump is set at the collection pump speed until red cells are detected at an HCT sensor not shown in the centrifuge chamber . Packed red cells and buffy coat have at this point accumulated in the spinning centrifuge bowl and are pumped out slowly at a rate controlled by the processor which maintains the red cell line at the sensor interface level.

The red cell pump is then set at 35 of the inlet pump speed while controlling the rate to maintain the cell line at the interface level until the collection cycle volume is reached at which point the red cell pump is turned off and the fluid path to the treatment bag via the HCT sensor is opened by lowering actuator and stops when the HCT sensor detects red cells. Collection cycle volume is defined as the whole blood processed target divided by the number of collection cycles for example a white blood process target of 1500 ml may require 6 cycles and so 1500 6 is a volume of 250 ml. With whole blood continuing at to be delivered from the patient to the bowl and the red cell pump off red cells will accumulate and will push out the buffy coat from inside the bowl . The red cells are used to push out the buffy coat and will be detected by the effluent hematocrit HCT sensor indicating that the buffy coat has been collected.

If another cycle is needed the centrifuge effluent path is returned to the plasma bag and the red cell pump rate is increased to the inlet pump pump rate until red cells are detected which is the beginning of the second cycle. If another cycle is not needed the centrifuge is turned off and inlet pump and anticoagulant pump are set at KVO rate 10 ml hr in this embodiment. The effluent path is directed to the plasma bag the red cell pump rate is set at 75 ml min the recirculation pump and photoactivation lamps are turned on for sufficient period to treat the buffy coat calculated by the controller depending on the volume and type of disease being treated.

When the bowl is empty the red cell pump is turned off and the plasma bag is emptied by opening actuator and continuing return pump . The return pump is turned off when the plasma bag is empty and when photoactivation is complete the treated cells are returned to the patient from the plate by means of the return pump . Saline is used to rinse the system and the rinse is returned to the patient completing the process .

The anticoagulant blood from patient and fluid back to patient are all monitored by air detectors and and the fluid back to the patient goes through drip chamber and filter . The pumps and the actuators and and the spinning of the bowl are all controlled by the programmed processor in the tower.

The process and related apparatus have significant advantages over prior processes and apparatus in that the invention allow buffy coat to be in the bowl longer since red cells are being drawn off while collecting buffy coat in the bowl while centrifuging keeping more buffy coat in the bowl until the desired amount of buffy coat cells are collected prior to withdrawing the collected buffy cells. Platelets leukocytes and other buffy coat fractions can also be separated or red cells can be collected rather than returning them with plasma to the patient as the illustrated process does.

It has been found that increasing the time that buffy coat is subjected to rotational motion in centrifuge bowl yields a cleaner cut of buffy coat . A cleaner cut means that the hematocrit count HCT is decreased. HCT is the amount of red blood ceils present per volume of buffy coat. The amount of time that buffy coat is subjected to rotational motion in centrifuge bowl can be maximized in the following manner. First whole blood is fed into first bowl channel as centrifuge bowl is rotating. As discussed above whole blood is separated into buffy coat and RBC s as it moves outwardly atop lower plate . Second bowl channel and third bowl channel are closed at this time. The inflow of whole blood is continued until the separation volume is filled with a combination of buffy coat near the top and RBC s near the bottom of centrifuge bowl . By removing RBC s from centrifuge bowl via second bowl channel only additional volume is created for the inflow of whole blood and the unremoved buffy coat is subjected to rotational forces for an extended period of time. As centrifuge bowl continues to rotate some of the RBC s that may be trapped in buffy coat get pulled to the bottom of centrifuge bowl and away from third bowl channel and buffy coat . Thus when third bowl channel is opened the buffy coat that is removed has a lower HCT . By controlling the inflow rate of whole blood and the outflow rates of buffy coat and RBC s a steady state can be reached that yields a buffy coat with an approximately constant HCT .

The elimination of batch processing and the improved yields achieved by the current invention have reduced the treatment time necessary to properly treat patients. For an average sized adult 90 100 milliliters of buffy coat white blood cells must be captured in order to conduct a full photopheres is treatment. In order to collect this amount of buffy coat white blood cells the present invention needs to process around 1.5 liters of whole blood. The required amount of buffy coat white blood cells can be removed from the 1.5 liters of whole blood in about 30 45 minutes using the present invention collecting around 60 or more of the total amount of the buffy coat white blood cells that are subjected to the separation process. The captured buffy coat white blood cells have an HCT of 2 or less. In comparison one existing apparatus the UVAR XTS takes around 90 minutes to process 1.5 liters of whole blood to obtain the sufficient amount of buffy coat white blood cells. The UVAR XTS only collects around 50 of the total amount of the buffy coat white blood cells that are subjected to the separation process. The HCT of the buffy coat white blood cells collected by the UVAR XTS is around but not substantially below 2 . Another existing apparatus the Cobe Spectra by Gambro must process 10 liters of whole blood in order to collect the sufficient amount of buffy coat white blood cells. This typically takes around 150 minutes collecting only 10 15 of the total amount of the buffy coat white blood cells that are subjected to the separation process and having an HCT of about 2 . Thus it has been discovered that while existing apparatus and systems require anywhere from 152 to 225 minutes to separate process treat and reinfuse the requisite amount of white blood cells or buffy coat the present invention can perform the same functions in less than 70 minutes. These times do not include the patient preparation or prime time. The times indicate only the total time that the patient is connected to the system.

