---

title: Modal advertising for wireless devices
abstract: Methods and computer-readable media are provided for the delivery of digital content to mobile devices. An audio content, a video content or an audio-video content is associated with a web page and the web page is published to a server location suitable for viewing. Once the web page is selected, the content is sent to the wireless device through streaming or by initiating a download. After the content is available to the device, an application programming interface executes the content for the user to listen, view or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08301278&OS=08301278&RS=08301278
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08301278
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
Advertising on the world wide web has brought a new vehicle with which companies can reach consumers in an attempt to sell products. Delivery of web applications to mobile communications devices such as cell phones personal data assistants PDAs and hybrid devices combining functions of both provides a clear example of an emerging area for innovation in internet delivery. Wireless application protocol WAP allows for standardized coding of web content for wireless devices which can include mobile communications devices.

The method used to serve content to the user in addition to the type of content served presents opportunities as well as difficulties. While users can browse the web in a relatively uniform manner because of WAP the device s small user interface limits the page visually in a manner that desktop and laptop browsers do not encounter. Users must scroll up or down on a mobile communications device to read an amount of text that would be easily displayed on a single screen for a desktop or laptop computer. Often times on wireless applications side to side scrolling is limited or non existent which imposes another spatial hindrance. Because wireless devices primarily rely on text and basic graphics for the web browsing experience this restricts the amount of information an advertisement can convey without losing the interest of the user.

There also are features of this platform which can make browsing the web more difficult and therefore add challenges to the production of effective ads. There are limitations to navigation of the browser s web page because most devices in this category do not have a mouse input similar to a desktop or laptop computer. For example in most cell phones typically there are only one to two additional inputs besides the small keyboard or keypad included on the unit itself. These inputs are usually small two direction or four direction buttons also built into the device which allow for the user to scroll up and down or side to side.

However use of digital content such as audio or video which do not require user interaction once executed help to overcome many of these problems. The amount of content is limited only by the file size of the content rather than the display area. The difficulties of navigation are bypassed as well. As a result wireless web advertising would be greatly improved a solution that delivers digital content that is more suited to the primary purpose of the device.

The present invention is defined by the claims below. Embodiments of the present invention solve at least the above problems by providing among other things delivery of audio video or audio video content to a wireless device. The present invention has practical applications in the technical arts including improving effectiveness of advertising on internet pages browsed by a user employing a wireless device as well as reducing restrictions on content by using audio or video media.

In a first aspect a method provides for delivery of an audio content by receiving the content in computer readable format associating that content with a web page and publishing that web page to a server for viewing on the internet. In exemplary embodiments of the invention the web page may be an advertising unit. In other exemplary embodiments the content may be streamed to the device or downloaded to the device and may be executed automatically upon reception.

In another aspect computer readable media for performing a method of content delivery have instructions embodied thereon for identifying audio content in computer readable format associating that content with a web page and publishing that web page to a server. In exemplary embodiments of the invention the web page may be an advertising unit. The content may be streamed to the device or downloaded to the device and may be executed automatically upon reception on other exemplary embodiments.

In another aspect a method provides for delivery of a digital content by providing a web page to a wireless device associating digital content to that web page and communicating the web page with associated digital content to the mobile device. In exemplary embodiments of the invention the content may be audio video or a combination of both and may be executed automatically upon reception. In other exemplary embodiments the web page may be an advertising unit.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for delivering content of an advertising unit in audio video or audio video format. Various technical terms are used throughout this description. A definition of such terms can be found in Newton s Telecom Dictionary by H. Newton 21st Edition 2005 . These definitions are intended to provide a clearer understanding of the ideas disclosed herein but are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. The definitions and terms should be interpreted broadly and liberally to the extent allowed the meaning of the words offered in the above cited reference.

As one skilled in the art will appreciate embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as among other things a method or computer program product. Accordingly the embodiments may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware. In one embodiment the present invention takes the form of a computer program product that includes computer useable instructions embodied on one or more computer readable media.

Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplates media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. Network switches routers and related components are conventional in nature as are means of communicating with the same. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media.

Computer storage media or machine readable media include media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

Communications media typically store computer useable instructions including data structures and program modules in a modulated data signal. The term modulated data signal refers to a propagated signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed to encode information in the signal. An exemplary modulated data signal includes a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communications media include any information delivery media. By way of example but not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic infrared radio microwave spread spectrum and other wireless media technologies.

The overall process of creating an advertising unit for various media is a standard one whether the medium is print broadcast or web based. Despite this fact the steps involved can be performed in a variety of sequences which depends largely on the infrastructure of the business that wishes to advertise the corresponding structure of the creative group responsible for the ad and the delivery method. There are varied relationships between these groups as well as internal workings of these individual entities which determine the exact process by which the original advertising concept reaches the public.

As shown in there is a general process by which the ad makes its way from concept to public viewing. The advertisement is created when the specific content or message is generated and the associated visual elements are selected to make up the elements of the advertising unit . Those elements are then combined to form the advertising unit in step . This can be completed by the sponsoring business or a creative agency outside of the sponsoring business. The initial ad unit is then approved by the decision making body or individual of the sponsoring business in step . If that person or group requires changes to the appearance or content of the ad the changes are completed prior to completion of step to finish the advertising unit.

The remaining portion of the advertising cycle shown in is an overview of the transition from completed advertisement to publicly viewable material. The completed ad is submitted in step to a serving or publishing agency which can be a printer publisher radio or television provider conventional or wireless web server wireless telecommunications carrier or wireless provider. A wireless telecommunications carrier or wireless provider includes those companies that operate voice networks and data networks to provide wireless telephone and wireless data systems for users. An example includes Sprint Nextel of Overland Park Kans. In the case of a WAP advertisement the ad unit is coded for the carrier or serving agency in step to complete the cycle. The steps associated with are applicable to advertisements created and displayed on wireless internet applications used by mobile communications devices. This can include such devices as web enabled cell phones PDAs and hybrid devices such as the Blackberry produced by Research in Motion Ltd. of Waterloo Canada.

Turning to a completed ad unit is made available for mobile communications devices in step . A method of content delivery according to one embodiment of the present invention begins when the user viewing an ad unit in step selects to navigate to the ad as shown in step . In a typical wireless application a jump page is displayed as seen in step after ad selection . Jump pages are used in a wireless browsing environment to provide text only or graphic enabled pages as well as to show the links that are available for the user to navigate to another page. More details regarding jump pages and an exemplary figure is provided below in . A jump page allows the user to select from one or more links as seen in step . In embodiments of the current invention a selection on the jump page causes a digital content to be streamed to the mobile device as shown in step . The process is completed when an application programming interface on the device executes delivery of the content on the device in step . An embodiment of the invention is shown in wherein steps and are omitted. In this embodiment once the ad unit selection takes place the content streaming begins and the process proceeds with content execution without navigating to a jump page.

Another method of content delivery can be performed as shown in the flowchart of . The process begins similarly to the previous processes with display of the ad unit on the mobile device . The user selects the ad unit as seen in step and a jump page is displayed in step . Rather than commencing a streaming step selection of a link on jump page will initiate a download of content to the mobile device in step . A download is understood to be the transfer of a file from the server to the mobile device. As shown in step once the download is complete and the file has been transferred the content is executed by an appropriate application on the mobile device. In another embodiment shows a method omitting steps and . Instead of leading to a jump page user selection leads directly to download initiation .

As seen in exemplary embodiments can be implemented with an ad unit a network and a mobile device. Ad unit is associated with digital content at server . Wireless network is used to transfer ad unit to mobile device . Wireless network may be made up of a combination of computers servers modems routers switches relays transmitters receivers transceivers and other devices necessary for the wireless transmission of voice or data. The mobile device s user interface creates on screen display of the ad unit . Selection of ad unit leads to various results. Content may be streamed across network to device . Alternatively content may be delivered to device in a completed download and then executed at device . In both instances an application programming interface on device will execute an application that allows the user to listen to or view the content. As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art the ad unit and digital content need not reside at the same location or on the same server. In an alternative embodiment ad unit may reside on server and content associated with ad unit may reside on server . The difference is transparent to the user as selection of ad unit still leads to streaming or downloading of content

There are a number of ways that a user s web browsing experience can be enhanced with the use of the present invention. The most direct is the ability to send a greater amount of content to the user without the user losing interest. Rather than scrolling through endless pages of text that contain only a small portion of the overall content message the entire content message can be implemented in one selection by the user. To provide a more interactive experience smaller segments of the ad content may be streamed or downloaded by the device so that audio or video is executed as the user moves through the ad whether in a static or dynamic form. The former enhancement merely allows for an audio content to be executed when the ad is selected. The latter exemplary improvement is the ability to stream small sound bites as browser focus passes over banner ads which could provide audio in a variety of attention grabbing forms. Similar enhancements are possible with small video clips rather than simply audio. In another alternative embodiment the final portion of the ad content could provide a message encouraging the user to call the advertising sponsor s phone number. The ability to select a button on the mobile communications device and have the company s phone number automatically dialed could also lead to more effective use of ad space and time.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out in the specific order described.

