---

title: Intelligently guiding search based on user dialog
abstract: Also, disclosed is a mechanism that enables users to validate computer-based information. Users can receive a validity metric associated with computer generated or provided results. Validation systems and methods are disclosed to facilitate determining the results including those that employ humans (e.g., referrals, voting . . . ) and/or automated ways (e.g., source analysis, data mining . . . ).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788517&OS=08788517&RS=08788517
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08788517
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060628
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 427 317 filed Jun. 28 2006 and entitled VALIDATION OF COMPUTER RESPONSES. The entirety of this application is incorporated by reference.

Advancements in networking and computing technologies have enabled transformation of computers from low performance high cost devices that perform basic word processing and compute low level mathematical computations to high performance low cost machines capable of a myriad of disparate functions. For example a consumer level computing device can be employed to aid a user in paying bills tracking expenses communicating nearly instantaneously with friends or family across large distances by way of email or instant messaging obtaining information from networked data repositories and numerous other functions activities. In business computers can facilitate communication control and monitoring of machines storage retrieval and analysis of data among other things. Computers and peripherals associated therewith have thus become a staple in modern society utilized for both personal and enterprise activities.

The Internet and the World Wide Web continue to expand rapidly with respect to both volume of information and number of users. The Internet is a collection of interconnected computer networks. The World Wide Web or simply the web is a service that connects numerous Internet accessible sites via hyperlinks and Uniform Resource Locators URLs . As a whole the web provides a global space for accumulation exchange and dissemination of all types of information. For instance information is provided by way of online newspapers magazines advertisements books pictures audio video and the like. In addition to providing traditional information the web further provides easy access to data that previously was practically unavailable due to laborious steps required to access the information e.g. legal banking governmental and educational information . Furthermore information is also supplied by individuals via personal web pages message boards blogs and collaborative works e.g. Wikipedia Reference dot com answers dot com . . . .

The increase in usage is largely driven by the ever growing amount of available information pertinent to user needs. By way of example the web and Internet was initially utilized solely by researches to exchange information. At present people utilize the web to manage bank accounts complete taxes view product information sell and purchase products download music take classes research topics and find directions among other things. Usage will continue to flourish as additional relevant information becomes available over the web.

To maximize likelihood of locating relevant information amongst an abundance of data search engines are often employed over the web. A web search engine or simply a search engine is a tool that facilitates web navigation based on entry of a search query comprising one or more keywords. Upon receipt of a query the search engine retrieves a list of websites typically ranked based on relevance to the query. A user can thereafter scroll through a plurality of returned sites to attempt to determine if the sites are related to the interests of the user. However this can be an extremely time consuming and frustrating process as search engines can return a substantial number of sites. More often then not the user is forced to narrow the search iteratively by altering and or adding keywords to obtain the identity of websites including relevant information.

Regardless of whether information is provided or generated by a computer e.g. search engine data analysis . . . there still exists a relative level of distrust of such information. This distrust stems from a number of factors such as the general newness as well as a lack of understanding of computing technology and or underlying software e.g. black box . The vulnerability of computers and computer programs to bugs glitches viruses and the like also contributes to that same distrust. Still further yet the fact that the web provides a public forum for posting anything a user wishes regardless of its veracity also factors into the trustworthiness of information residing thereon. As a result users are often quite skeptical of computer generated and or provided information and are therefore unable to make full and efficient use of that which is provided.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly described embodiments described herein pertain to confirming accuracy or veracity of information provided in connection with computer generated and or provided data e.g. search results postings blogs news feeds . . . in order to increase probability of providing reliable information. The accuracy of information received can be increased or confirmed through a variety of manners. For example searches can be guided as a function of known and reliable information sources and or referrals can be employed to validate information among other things. As a result users can gain an increased level of confidence as to validity of information.

According to one particular embodiment individuals can be polled such that computer based information including answers or results is supplied or otherwise identified to a group of users and votes are received pertaining to veracity of the information. By way of example and not limitation the information can be provided and votes received from within a social network forum blog instant messaging session and the like.

Information can also be validated without direct input from other individuals in accordance with another aspect of the subject innovation. More specifically systems and methods are provided that can scrutinize information sources for example by comparing results with other like data to detect similarities or contradictions or measuring a distance from a set of known reliable sources. Machine learning based approaches can also be employed to facilitate identifying information veracity.

According to still another aspect of the subject innovation computer searches e.g. web search Internet search intranet search . . . can be guided by inference to facilitate identification of pertinent information. More specifically a learning and reasoning system can be used to facilitate converging on reliable subject matter based in part upon queries and responses to inquiries by the system.

Moreover information can be gathered from the user directly or can be requested in an automated way e.g. with confirmation per a user s policy for sharing data from the user s system or other database of data.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The various aspects of the subject innovation are now described with reference to the annexed drawings wherein like numerals refer to like or corresponding elements throughout. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring initially to a validation system is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the subject innovation. Although computers are very good at providing useful information there exists a relative level of distrust of computer based information. The validation system facilitates determining veracity of computer generated and or provided information. Based on this information a user can decide whether or not and or to what extent he she should rely on the computer results. The system includes a receiver component and validation component . The receiver component can receive retrieve or otherwise obtain or acquire computer provided results and information pertaining to the results. By way of example if a computer is utilized to analyze an electrocardiogram EKG the receiver component can receive the EKG and the result of the analysis e.g. normal myocardial infarction . . . . In an alternative instance the result could correspond to a webpage and the information can be resident within the webpage as well as the query itself. The result and associated information can be supplied to or made available for access by the validation component .

The validation component receives or retrieves the information from the receiver component and can facilitate determining validity of the result or answer. In the first example the determination would correspond to whether or not the analysis result is accurate given the EKG. In the second example the validity of the information provided on the webpage can be assessed. This determination can be made in a myriad of different manners for example the validity component can map results or result information to known information and or request and receive outside information as discussed further infra. More specifically the validation component can generate a validity metric indicative of the veracity of the result. In one instance this can be a binary value indicating whether the results are correct or incorrect true or false or the like. Alternatively the metric can be multi valued for instance in accordance with the following exemplary table.

It should also be appreciated that in addition to providing a validity metric or score the validation component can also identify how why such a score was produced. This information can facilitate providing an explanation so that users need not blindly trust the validity score. For instance it could be noted that a particular web page received as score of 3 Probably false because based on a comparison with other web pages providing such information there was a lack of correlation or similarity of facts. By way of example an interface or application can provide a link to an explanation next to the metric so that users can easily access the information while the display is not cluttered with such data.

In validation system is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. Similar to system of system includes the receiver component and the validation component . In brief the receiver component can acquire results and information associated therewith and provide or make such data accessible to the validation component . The validation component can then facilitate scrutinizing the result and generating a metric that identifies whether the result is correct incorrect or somewhere in between. In addition to these components system includes a user interface component communicatively coupled to both the receiver component and the validation component . The user interface component enables a user to interact with the process of validating computer results. For example the component can display computer results and associated information to a user. The user can subsequently initiate validation and or receive the validity metric from interface component via validation component . Further a user can also utilize the user interface to specify a target validity range.

By way of example a user may view displayed computer results perhaps associated with a web search with user interface component . The user may then decide whether or not they desire to validate the information and if so to what extent. If the user is merely surfing the web for trivial data they may not wish to validate the information being supplied. However if the user is going to rely on the information in some manner then they may wish to validate. Likewise depending on the degree of reliance a user can instruct the validation component to check to ensure that the result is absolutely true probably or likely true or false or some particular veracity value. Such determination may depend on cost in terms of latency and or money among other things as it may be more costly to verify that the result is one hundred percent true or false as opposed to probably true or false for instance.

As those of skill in the art will recognized upon reading this detailed description the user interface component can be manifested in a plurality of different forms to facilitate interaction with data. For example the user interface component can include one or more disparate regions and display a number of graphical objects on a screen whether personal computer PDA mobile telephone or other suitable device for example such as text graphics audio video buttons menus and text boxes among other things. It will be appreciated that other layouts or orientations exist all of which are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Additionally or alternatively system can include an application programming interface API component . API component provides a mechanism to enable use of system by other applications and systems rather than as a stand alone system. In accordance with on aspect of the innovation the API component can facilitate interaction with a search engine. In such an instance the search engine can provide web pages and or receive validity scores. The search engine can for instance augment result rankings based on validity scores. For example assuming the same relevancy score a web page with a higher validity score can be ranked higher than a web page with a lower score. The search engine can also display veracity information with search engine results to allow users to decide which results they would like to view based on this information. Further yet a user can specify a threshold and the search engine can return only results that satisfy the threshold. As an alternative or in addition a browser browser toolbar email client or instant message client can interact with system via API component . In application the browser can proactively warn or otherwise notify users when they visit web pages with poor veracity.

System also includes a referral component communicatively coupled to the validation component referral s store and communication component . The validation component can employ the referral component to retrieve an opinion from one or more individuals viz. human beings . Based on the result or answer the referral component can search the referral s store to locate an appropriate individual to verify the answer. It is to be noted that user interface component is coupled to the referral s store and can thus facilitate addition and or removal of referrals and otherwise effect selection by the referral component . For example a user can identify a first individual to verify certain results or facts and second individual to verify other facts. Further yet the user can specify a set of prioritized individuals to verify particular results such that if the first individual is not available the referral component can facilitate contact of a second individual and so forth.

The communication component is communicatively coupled to the referral component . The communication component receives retrieves or otherwise obtains referral and result information from the referral component . The referral information can include identity of an individual e.g. real name user name . . . and one or more contact methods. The result information can include data pertaining to a computer provided result and optionally the result itself. The communication component is operable to establish an Internet communication session with one or more referrals. The communication session can be established in the context of social networks blogs instant messaging email VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol among others. Once established the communication session can be utilized to transfer result information and or results to a referral and receive a response.

The communication component is also coupled to the third party interface component . Interface component can provide an environment to aid referrals in viewing and responding to obtained result information. In one instance the interface component can correspond to a rich graphical user interface. The user can obtain result and result information via the interface component . Subsequently or concurrently the third party user can analyze the results to determine if the result is correct. The user can also employ the user interface to initiate communication with others for example to consult. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the result may not be provided to the user so as not to bias the response. Instead the user will simply provide a response.

Assume for example a user e.g. technician has a pap smear analyzed by a computer and it determines that there is a high likelihood of pre cancerous cells in the smear. The user may also agree with the computer based findings but would also like the opinion of a second technician or doctor. The system can automatically package information relating to the diagnosis e.g. image of the smear conclusion which could be exposed to the second person after receiving his her input so as not to bias the second diagnosis provide it to a second person and receive a response. It should be noted that the second person could even be located across the globe e.g. India to reduce costs but enhance medical treatment by providing a second opinion that conventionally would be too cost prohibitive if performed by a second U.S. doctor.

Turning attention to a survey validation system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. Similar to systems and system includes the receiver component validation component and the user interface component as previously described. Briefly summarized the receiver component can obtain results result information and the like and provide or make it accessible to validation component . The user interface component is communicatively coupled to the receiver component and validation component and provides a mechanism for interacting with the system by among other things controlling how the validation component validates data.

System also includes a survey component communicatively coupled to validation component . The survey component facilitates identifying appropriate survey sources and providing survey input back to validation component . More specifically the survey source can be identified from the survey source s store . The store s houses a plurality of sources such as individuals and electronic forums among other things. These sources can be but are not limited to being identified and stored by a user via the communicatively coupled user interface component . Based on the result and or result information the survey component can select one or more survey sources from store and provide or make them accessible to communication component . The communication component can then establish a communication session for receipt of survey results.

By way of example and not limitation the communication component can establish a central web site to receive votes regarding the veracity of the results given result information and send out emails to particular individuals that direct them to the site for voting. Alternatively a group can be set up with respect to a social network to receive votes. Users can employ a third party user interface component to view a result and result information and enable voting. For example the interface component can display the voting web site. Once results are received they can be communicated back through the third party interface component the communication component and survey component to the validation component . Based on the voting results the validation component can determine the veracity of the results and generate a metric to provide back to a user via the user interface component .

Referring to an analysis based validation system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. Similar to systems and system includes the receiver component the validation component and the user interface component as described supra. Furthermore the system includes an analysis component and data source s communicatively coupled together and to validation component and user interface component respectively. Upon request by the validation component the analysis component can scrutinize results in light of various data sources. Data source s can house the identities and or data of known or user identified trusted data sources. Among other things these sources can include particular websites online books or other publications.

For instance a user can identify a plurality of websites that they believe are reliable and store those identities in data source store . Subsequently they can initiate validation of results. Validation component can then request data from analysis component . The analysis component can then analyze the results as well as other relevant information with respect to information provided by one or more data sources . Results of the analysis can then be provided back to the validation component . For example if website data is being validated against other data on the web the analysis component could indicate that four out of five trusted data sources concur disagree with the results. Based on this information the validation component can generate a validation metric to provide to the user via user interface component .

Analyzer component can also utilize a variety of other techniques to facilitate determination of veracity. For example the analyzer component can compare one or more documents. The analyzer component can also analyze a relational distance between a source of the information and known reliable sources to the validation component. For instance a web page that includes a number of links to known reliable sources may be more trustworthy than one that does not. Additionally or alternatively various machine learning techniques can be employed to infer veracity from a variety of factors.

Referring to a computer result validation system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. Similar to some systems supra the system includes receiver component validation component and user interface component . As previously described the receiver component receives or retrieves results result information and or the like and makes it available to the user interface component as well as the validation component . The user interface component can be employed to initiate result validation via the validation component results of which are provided back to the user through the interface component .

It is to be noted that a validation system can employ various mechanisms to facilitate a veracity determination. For example the system can employ one or more of the referral survey and data source analysis as described with respect to and . To facilitate such a choice context component is provided. The context component is communicatively coupled to both the user interface component and the validation component . The context component can identify or determine information about the user circumstances surrounding the user results and or result information that are useful in determining a level of desired validation. This information can be associated with a user and provided by the user interface component . The information can include user profile information such as name age gender ethnicity birthday favorite web sites etc. and can be supplied by the user or determine by the interface for example by monitoring interaction e.g. via cookies . . . . Additional context information can also be determined or inferred such as time of day day of week events e.g. holidays expos . . . and the like. Based on this information the validation component can determine the best approach for validation. For example if time is of the essence then the validation component may select to validate data utilizing data source analysis. In another instance the survey or voting mechanism can be determined to be the best validation mechanism for a given result given time accuracy and cost requirements. Alternatively if accuracy is important for instance with respect to medical matters the validation component can select to employ the referral. Additionally or alternatively the validation component may chose to utilize all mechanisms at its disposal to determine veracity. In such a scenario the various mechanisms may be weighted given their reliability for example weighting referral opinions higher than data analysis.

By way of example assume that a user searches the web and receives directions to a convention center for an upcoming concert. While accurate directions are desired they are not crucial. Accordingly the selection component may eliminate a referral mechanism especially if it is costly and results cannot be obtained in a timely manner. As a result the selection component may choose to use one or both of data analysis and survey mechanisms. As per the data analysis mechanism data sources such as websites can be located that are likely to include direction information such as a website associated with the venue the band and or a ticket agency. Such data can be analyzed with respect to the result directions to determine their accuracy. The survey mechanism can also be employed to post the directions in one or more relevant chat rooms for example and receive votes as to whether the directions are accurate.

The validation component also includes a metric generation component that facilitates expression of the veracity of a result. Based on the results provided by one or more selected the metric generation component can produces a meaningful representation of veracity of the result. For instance the metric can be a Boolean true or false or a scalar value indicating the likelihood that something is correct or incorrect.

Referring to a web search system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. The search system provides for web searching that is guided by heuristics and or context information. The system includes a search engine . As is known in the art the search engine can receive queries and provide relevant results in response thereto. The search engine is communicatively coupled to the inference component . In operation the interface component is able to guide search queries and results based in part upon heuristics and user supplied information among other things. The inference component can interact with a knowledge store to facilitate inferring relevant search results. For example the knowledge store can include a plurality of knowledge capturing rules. The inference component can employ one or more of these rules to guide and ultimately facilitate retrieval of more relevant results. In particular the inference component can request and retrieve or simply receive information and based on the rules facilitate query augmentation. For example the inference component can present a series of questions to a user regarding a search and return relevant results based on the answers. More specifically a search query for cars could be met with questions regarding the type style and or brand which can then initiate another series of questions to define further what is attempted to be located. Subsequent questions can therefore by dependent upon answers to previous questions. Accordingly it is to be appreciated that together interference component and knowledge base can form at least part of a machine learning and reasoning system although the innovation is not limited thereto.

In accordance with an aspect of the innovation the inference component or expert system can facilitate navigation of a topic hierarchy or cluster. For example the search domain can be classified as a search tree where broader topics are toward the top and more granular topics are pushed toward the bottom. By way of example a portion of the tree can include automobiles toward the top which are further broken down into cars trucks vans and the like where each one of these topics is further defined such as convertible cars sports cars etc. Additionally or alternatively a cluster of topics can be utilized based on their relations. The inference component can utilize the original search terms as well as other context information as described below to locate a starting point within the tree or cluster. Questions and answers can then be employed together with the original query and context information to navigate the tree or cluster.

Query modification component can receive information from the communicatively coupled inference component . The query modification component is operable to alter the query provided to search engine to reflect inferred information. This amended or new query can then be executed by search engine to return relevant data. This process can be performed every time information is provided to the inference component or at any other interval. In one instance the query modification component can utilize the topic hierarchy or cluster and current position therein to determine how the query should be modified. Furthermore the modification component can take advantage of domain and classification knowledge to generate queries that may not be intuitive to a user. In addition the modification component can generate queries that take advantage of the full expressive power of the query language supported by the search engine . In this manner queries can be refined with tight control to zero in on a topic of interest. This will dramatically improve results and the efficiency with which such results are obtained especially with respect to typical user queries that utilize a few keywords and maybe a conjunction or two. Novice users will thus be able to search with the same skill as a professional searcher or search advisor.

It should also be noted that system includes a search context component communicatively coupled to both the search engine and the inference component . The context component is operable to determine or retrieve context information relating to a search. The context information can be manually entered by a user and or determined or inferred from user interaction e.g. gender age favorite web pages . . . . Still further yet the context information can be received or determined from outside sources e.g. day of week holiday weather current events . . . . The context information can be provided to inference component which can guide a search based at least in part thereon. In one scenario instead of presenting a question to a user to answer the answer can be provided by the context information automatically. Hence the user need only be asked questions the answers of which cannot be determined within a threshold degree of confidence based on current information.

More specifically statistical machine learning and reasoning methods can be used to infer utilities of different outcomes to infer a set of likelihoods about states of relevance to the goal of providing the user with a valuable search results and also to infer the likelihoods about the outcomes of the answers to different questions that a user may be asked. Such information can be employed to compute the expected value of information associated with each potential dialog action that is the value of acquiring different inputs from user s or from systems about goals demographics or other information. The computation of such value of information can be used to triage and to limit questions asked of the user or drawn from a database. Such computations can consider sequences via lookahead or question clustering approaches or can be used in a greedy sequential manner to generate questions of the user whereby likelihoods are updated with each response.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Referring to a method of validating computer generated and or provided data is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. At reference numeral information pertaining to a computer result is obtained. For example the result can correspond to an analysis of data or a retrieved web page. At numeral the veracity of the result is determined in one or more of a myriad of disparate manners e.g. referral survey analysis . . . . At reference numeral veracity metric is generated that is indicative of the veracity of the result. The metric can be compiled from one or more veracity measurements. Further the metric can be Boolean such as true or false or alternatively scalar such a true likely true likely false false. At reference numeral the metric can be provided to a user for example alone or in conjunction with the results.

Turning attention to a method of validating data is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. More specifically the method facilitates validation by one or more referrals. At reference numeral a referral is identified. The referral can be a known or user identified trusted individual. Further this individual can be a subject matter specific referral such that a medical doctor is not identified as a referral relating to bridge construction for example.

At reference an Internet communication session is initiated with one or more referrals to facilitate transfer of information. The session could be a secure web page chat session teleconference and or video conference among other things. Additionally or alternatively the session can simply correspond to an email message or thread thereof.

Result information is provided to one or more references via the communication session at reference numeral . The result information can include data that was employed to generate or provide a result and or the result itself. For example the result information can be data that is utilized to generate a result such EKG data. In such an instance it may be desirable to provide only the result information so as not to bias the evaluation. In other instances the result can be the information validation of which is of interest such as a web page. Accordingly providing the result is important in this case.

At reference numeral one or more referral opinions are received via the communication session or other medium. As mentioned the opinion can be the result itself if not originally provided. Alternatively the opinion can relate to the veracity and or validity of the result provided result given for instance the information utilized to determine the result.

While human beings can be utilized to validate data such a process can also be automated. illustrates an analytical method of validating data in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. At reference numeral the data source can be scrutinized. In other words the trustworthiness of the source e.g. type specific source . . . is investigated. By way of example data provided on a personal webpage can be identified as less trustworthy than that associated with a commercial online encyclopedia. In a simple implementation sources and associated values can be housed in a database and scrutinizing the source can comprise identifying the source and looking up a value associated therewith. Such measures of trustworthiness can also be updated at intervals to ensure accurate values. At reference numeral data can be mined for corroborating and or contradictory data. For example if a fact is asserted a plurality of data sources can be located and analyzed to determine the veracity of the asserted fact.

Referring to validation method is shown in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. At reference numeral computer result information sought to be validated is obtained. Context information surrounding the data to be validated amongst other things is obtained. For example context information can pertain to the individual or entity requesting validation and the kind or type of data being validated e.g. banking medical personal pleasure . . . among other things. At reference numeral an acceptable level of validity is determined given the information to be validated and the context. For instance if what is attempted to be validated were medical data by a doctor the acceptable level of validity would be quite high especially with respect a date and location of a sporting event by an enthusiast. At numeral one or more validity mechanisms are selected and employed based a specified level of validity. In the medical information example this could correspond to a referral mechanism that enables another doctor review the data. For the sports data a polling and or data analysis mechanism may be deemed appropriate.

The question can be targeted to solicit information to further define a query or a category of search. For example if a query for Saturn is entered a question could be generated such as Are you looking for Saturn the car or Saturn the planet While questions can be asked in such an open fashion answers may also be solicited based on yes and no questions. For instance Are you referring to Saturn the planet If the answer is no it can automatically infer you are referring to the car and or generate another question to confirm. Further it should be appreciated that questions can also be guided by context. Accordingly the initial question asking whether you are referring to the planet can be intelligently selected based on context information pertaining to planets astrology or the like identified from preferences previous searches and current events among other things.

Still further yet the determination to ask a question and or the question itself can be based on an expectancy value or value of information e.g. incorporating utilities of different outcomes likelihoods about state of relevance to goal of providing relevant results likelihoods of outcomes of answers to different questions that may be asked . . . indicating that it would be best to retrieve such an answer rather than to retrieve from user information or context and or to infer such an answer. Questions can be generated when the information value exceeds a threshold.

At numeral a determination is made as to whether a result or answer is received in response to the provided question. If no the method continues to loop at . If yes the method proceeds to numeral where results are identified based on the query and one or more responses. For example the query can be qualified based on received answers to questions. The method can continue at where another question is provided to a user. This question can be based on both the query and or the previous response. The method can then continue to loop to further define a query and therefore result granularity. In this manner a search can be guided intelligently perhaps by questions and responses thereto.

In one instance the questions and answers can automate navigation of a topic classification hierarchy or cluster. Additionally a classification hierarchy or cluster can be provided with results to enable users to further refine or broaden their searches e.g. rollup drop down if desired. Furthermore it is to be noted that results need not be provided until a particular knowledge threshold is met. In other words search results need not be provided until the search as been refined to a certain extent for example based on the resultant number of matches or the like.

As used in herein the terms component and system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an instance an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Similarly examples are provided herein solely for purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit the subject innovation or portion thereof in any manner. It is to be appreciated that a myriad of additional or alternate examples could have been presented but have been omitted for purposes of brevity.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the subject innovation as described hereinafter. As used herein the term inference or infer refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the subject innovation.

Furthermore all or portions of the subject innovation may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed innovation. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick jump drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed innovation can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer e.g. desktop laptop server hand held programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available microprocessors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures e.g. multi core also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 11 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example mass or auxiliary storage . Mass storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition mass storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the mass storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on mass storage and loaded to system memory acts to control and allocate resources of the system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on mass storage . It is to be appreciated that the subject innovation can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like displays e.g. flat panel CRT LCD plasma . . . speakers and printers among other output devices that require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected e.g. wired or wirelessly via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems power modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards or components.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has or having or variations in form thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

