---

title: Nanogaps: methods and devices containing same
abstract: Disclosed are methods of fabricating nanogaps and various devices composed of nanogaps. The nanogap devices disclosed herein can be used as in a number of electronic, photonic and quantum mechanical devices, including field-effect transistors and logic circuits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08039368&OS=08039368&RS=08039368
owner: The Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania
number: 08039368
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060321
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2006 010157 filed Mar. 21 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 663 637 filed March 21 2005 International Application No. PCT US2005 018342 filed May. 25 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 715 720 filed Sep. 9 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention was made with U.S. Government support. The Government may have certain rights in the invention under Office of Naval Research Grant No. N000140410489 and NSF IGERT Program Grant No. DGE 0221664.

The present invention is generally related to the field of nanotechnology. The present invention is also related to the field of semiconductor fabrication processes in particular the fabrication of electrodes and devices integrating nanoscale electrodes. The present invention also pertains to processes for preparing nanometer scale device features. The present invention also pertains to a variety of electronic photonic semiconductor and quantum effect devices.

The last few decades have witnessed myriad breakthroughs in studies on single molecules nanometer scale structures and quantum phenomena in general. Exciting results continue to emerge at a rapid rate and proposed applications for them are quick to follow. In order to realize these applications and pursue research at similar and even smaller scales reliable methods are needed to electronically connect atoms molecules nanostructures and other components at the nanoscale. In this regard two or more electrical contacts separated by a nanometer scale distance constitute a nanogap .

Charge transport measurements using nanogaps have yielded much of what is currently known about the electrical properties of objects small enough to have their properties dominated by quantum mechanics. Scanning probes have also been used to study electric properties of single crystals but their ability to probe the lateral charge dynamics between several neighboring nano structures is seriously limited and their potential for integration into any scalable production is unlikely.

Functional nano electronic devices based on nanogaps have been demonstrated. For instance transistors have been made from a single nanocrystal a single strand of DNA a single Cmolecule a single Co ion and other single molecules containing spin impurities. However all of the currently available techniques used to fabricate nanogaps require a lengthy and complicated fabrication process suffer from low yield and poor control of the gap size as well as its location on a substrate. Most of them require the skill and finesse that a limited number of people possess and many demand uncommon facilities. In most cases the fabrication of each gap requires arduous tuning of the instrumentation parameters while simultaneously measuring the progress of the gap formation. As a consequence automated and scalable production is not likely to be achieved with these methods. Furthermore the structural details and content of nanogaps produced by these techniques are either difficult or impossible to determine directly.

Efforts towards developing a reliable nanogap fabrication technique have been active for over a decade. The first reported method for achieving small gaps employed angled evaporation to fabricate two closely spaced electrodes on SiO Klein D. L. McEuen P. L. Katari J. E. B. Roth R. Alivisatos A. P. 1996 68 2574 . Dekker and Bezryadin were able to fabricate gaps under 5 nm by sputtering metal onto carbon electrodes which had been deposited near each other with an electron beam Bezryadin A Dekker C. J. 1997 15 4 793 . An analogous method developed by Marcus et al. involved first fabricating nearby electrodes and then electroplating additional metal to reduce the gap size Morpurgo A. F. Marcus C. M. Robinson D. B. App. Phys. Lett. 1999 74 2084 . Tour et al. demonstrated a mechanical breakjunction technique based on first fabricating a thin continuous metal wire and forcing it to break open by introducing mechanical strain Reed M. A. Zhou C. Muller C. J. Burgin T. P. Tour J. M. 1997 278 252 . The mechanical breakjunction technique was modified by Park et al. by triggering the gap formation with a sudden voltage application across the wire Park H. Lim A. K. L. Alivisatos A. P. Park J. McEuen P. L. 1999 75 301 . Both of these breakjunction methods require liquid helium temperatures 4 K . Gaps fabricated using such methods are usually accompanied by randomly deposited small metallic particle debris that can distort measured signals. Park s electromigration technique was improved by developing a method for gradual gap formation with a sequence of slow voltage ramps which allows the fabrication to be done at room temperature Strachen D. R. Smith D. E. Johnston D. E. Park T. H Therien M. J. Bonnell D. A. Johnson A. T. 2005 86 043109 . Many other methods for achieving nanogaps exist though they are of similar or even greater complexity see for example Chen J. Reed M. A. Rawlett A. M. Tour J. M. 1999 286 1550 Krahne R. Yacoby A. Shtrikman H. Bar Joseph I Dadosh T. Sperling J. 2002 81 4 730 and Sun L. F. Chin S. N. Msarx E. Curtis K. S. Greenham N. C. Ford C. J. B. 2005 16 631 . Researchers have demonstrated a simpler technique of directly writing small gaps with EBL onto a SiOsubstrate by underexposing and overdeveloping the resist while carefully monitoring the temperature and development time Liu K. Avouris Ph. Bucchignano J. Martel R. Sun S. 2002 80 865 . The final gap geometry is highly sensitive to these parameter values. In that case a second writing process requiring alignment of the incomplete device is necessary to connect the electrode gaps to a full circuit.

In addition to the complications involved with the methods mentioned above nanogaps that are produced are typically inspected with Scanning Electron Microscopy SEM . SEM has a resolution limit roughly between 1 and 10 nm depending on the microscope sample properties and imaging conditions. A serious consequence of this is the potential for measuring single electron effects due to an impurity in the gap and mistaking the impurity for the sample being probed. Specifically Coulomb Blockade a phenomenon attributed to the successful detection of a single nano scale sample was recently reported to be frequently detected in electromigrated gaps containing no sample only debris produced during the gap formation Sordan R. Balasubramanian K. Burghard M. Kern K. 2005 87 013106 . Accordingly rapid and reliable methods for making nanogaps and other structures on the nanometer scale are presently needed.

Transmission Electron Microscopy TEM offers the highest resolution imaging available less than 1 Angstrom or 0.1 nanometer . Two methods for fabricating nanogaps on TEM compatible thin films have been reported previously however neither solve the problem in a practical manner. The first demonstrated example uses shadow evaporation although this method suffers from an extremely low yield Philipp G. Weimann T. Hinze P. Burghard M. Weis 1999 46 157 . A second method breaks a thin wire on a SiNsupport membrane by exposing it to a 300 kV electron beam Zandbergen H. W. van Duuren R. J. H. A. Alkemade P. F. A. Lientschnig G. Vasquez Dekker C. Tichelaar F. D. 2005 5 549 . The high energy beam drives thermal diffusion of atoms away from the targeted region until a gap suddenly opens. Although high quality TEM images are obtained the initial gap size is difficult to control and the gaps continued to grow over time. Because this is a breakjunction technique it is necessary to remove the substrate from underneath the gap region to avoid contamination from metallic debris. Furthermore this technique requires deft use of a dual beam Transmission Electron Microscope TEM which is an extremely rare system. A technique called On Wire Lithography OWL makes use of standard nanowire growth technology by momentarily stopping the growth of a gold nanowire growing a thin section of another material and then resuming the growth of the gold nanowire Qin L. Park S. Huang L. Mirkin C. A. 2005 309 113. The continuous wire is then exposed to a wet etch that removes the non gold material and consequently defines a gap. A large number of the final structures are then deposited on a substrate containing many pre patterned electrodes and the experimenter is forced to hope for one of the gapped wires to randomly span two of the electrodes. The low yield of successful integration of the gaps into a full circuit imposes a severe limitation to OWL as a viable approach to useful nanogap device production. Accordingly there is also a present need for rapid production of nanogaps and other structures on the nanometer scale that can easily be inspected using TEM. There is also an urgent need to prepare electronic photonic and quantum effect devices that include such nanogaps and other nanoscale structures.

In certain aspects the present invention provides methods for fabricating a nanogap comprising imaging an imageable layer surmounting a support membrane removing the imaged portions of the imageable layer to give rise to at least one nanoscale feature on the support membrane adhering a layer of a further material onto the support membrane covering at least a portion of at least one nanoscale feature and removing the at least one nanoscale feature from the support membrane together with the further material adhering to the nanofeature to give rise to said nanogap.

In other aspects the present invention provides methods comprising providing a support membrane surmounted by an imageable layer on one or both sides of the support membrane imaging the imageable layer to give rise to one or more desired nanoscale features composed of a portion of said imageable layer surmounted on one or both sides of the support membrane optionally forming an optional adhesive layer on at least one side of the support membrane comprising said nanoscale features forming one or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on at least a portion of the nanoscale features the support membrane the optional adhesive layer or any combination thereof and removing at least a portion of said one or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on at least a portion of the nanoscale features to give rise to one or more nanogaps residing proximate to one or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on the support membrane the optional adhesive layer or any combination thereof.

In further aspects the present invention also provides methods comprising imaging an imageable layer surmounting a support membrane to give rise to at least one nanoscale feature composed of a portion of said imageable layer and etching a portion of the support membrane residing proximate to the one or more desired nanoscale features to give rise to a support membrane nanofeature composed of a portion of the support membrane.

In certain other aspects the present invention provides methods comprising providing a support membrane comprising a first side and a second side the first side comprising a region of imageable layer surmounting an insulating layer said insulating layer surmounting a supporting layer that supports said support membrane and the second side comprising a plurality of electrodes defining one or more nano gaps and exposing said imageable layer to an exposure beam.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising an electronically active element disposed on a back side of a support membrane supported by a supporting layer the electronically active element comprising a back side structure connected from a region of the support membrane along a sloped surface of the supporting layer the supporting layer being at least partially covered with an insulating layer said insulating layer adjacently situated to said support membrane wherein at least a portion of the back side structure is situated opposite to a nanogap defined by a plurality of electrodes said electrodes being situated on a front side of the support membrane.

In other aspects the present invention provides methods for fabricating back side structures onto a back side of a support membrane comprising providing a support membrane comprising a front side and a back side said front side comprising two proximate electrodes that define a nanogap controllably depositing vaporized material to the back side of the support membrane and contacting a focused ion beam to the vaporized material.

In other aspects the present invention provides nanogap field effect transistors comprising a nanogap disposed between a source electrode and a drain electrode said source and drain electrodes being disposed on a front side of said support membrane said support membrane supported by a supporting structure adjacent to a back side of said support membrane a local gate electrode disposed on a back side of said support membrane said gate continuously extending along a sloped surface of the supporting structure and one or more semiconducting nanostructures disposed within said nanogap.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising a nanogap defined by two proximate electrodes adjacently disposed on a front side of a support membrane and a third electrode adjacently disposed on a back side of the support membrane.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising a plurality of uncoupled nanogap field effect transistors disposed in an array each nanogap field effect transistor individually comprising source and drain electrodes forming a nanogap therebetween a nanostructure disposed within each nanogap the source and drain electrodes separated from individual local gate electrodes by a common insulating support membrane.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising a plurality of coupled nanogap field effect transistors disposed in an array each nanogap field effect transistor comprising source and drain electrodes forming a nanogap therebetween a nanostructure disposed within each nanogap the source and drain electrodes separated from individual local gate electrodes by a common insulating support membrane.

In other aspects the present invention provides detectors comprising two proximately spaced electrodes disposed on a support membrane the space between the electrodes defining a nanogap having a width in the range of from about 1 nm to about 50 nm a voltage source electrically connected to one of the electrodes and a current measuring device electrically connected to the other electrode and to electrical ground for measuring a tunneling current that varies with the nanogap width.

In other aspects the present invention provides methods of storing and reading information in a digital memory element comprising providing a digital memory element comprising two proximately spaced electrodes disposed on a support membrane the space between the electrodes defining a nanogap having a width in the range of from about 1 nm to about 50 nm a voltage source electrically connected to one of the electrodes and a current measuring device electrically connected to the other electrode and to electrical ground for measuring a tunneling current that varies with the nanogap width characterizing the digital memory element as having a zero state when the nanostructure is charge neutral and the voltage source is electrically connected to the source electrode is at the same voltage value as the ground and substantially no current is measured by the current meter changing the state of the device by applying a first voltage to the nanostructure optionally measuring the current using the current measuring device as the voltage source is activated characterizing the digital memory element as having a one state when the nanostructure possesses a net charge optionally changing the state of the device back to the zero state by either applying a voltage of opposite polarity to that of the first voltage or by exposing the device to light and optionally determining the state of the device by measuring its conductivity wherein a zero state corresponds to a high conductivity and a one state corresponds to a low conductivity.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising a support membrane comprising a nanogap the nanogap defined by the proximity of a source electrode a drain electrode and a local gate electrode disposed together on the same side of the support membrane a plurality of coupled nanostructures disposed within the nanogap wherein the local gate electrode is situated so as to be able to tune the coupling between the plurality of nanostructures.

In other aspects the present invention provides devices comprising a nanogap defined by two or more proximate electrodes disposed on a front side of a support membrane a looped conductive wire backstructure disposed on a back side of the support membrane and at least partially encircling a region opposite the nanogap the looped conductive wire backstructure electrically connected on one end to a voltage source and to electrical ground on the other end the looped conductive wire backstructure capable of applying magnetic fields to one or more nanostructures residing inside or proximate to the nanogap.

In other aspects the present invention provides methods of controlling the spin in nanostructures comprising providing a device comprising a nanogap defined by two or more proximate electrodes disposed on a front side of a support membrane a looped conductive wire backstructure disposed on a back side of the support membrane and at least partially encircling a region opposite the nanogap the looped conductive wire backstructure electrically connected on one end to a voltage source and to electrical ground on the other end the looped conductive wire backstructure capable of applying magnetic fields to one or more nanostructures residing inside or proximate to the nanogap applying a voltage with the voltage source to drive current through the looped conductive wire backstructure creating a magnetic field by acceleration of electric current through the looped conductive wire backstructure and controlling the voltage to control the spin of structures disposed within the nanogap.

In other aspects the present invention provides methods of making a nanogap comprising providing a support membrane mask comprising a support membrane a plurality of openings disposed within said support membrane and at least one support membrane nanofeature disposed between at least two of the openings positioning the support membrane mask proximate to a substrate surface and depositing chemical vapor through said at least two of the openings to give rise to at least two chemical vapor deposited structures disposed on the substrate surface at least two of the chemical vapor deposited structures forming a nanogap therebetween.

The general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Other aspects of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the detailed description of the invention as provided herein.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the specific devices methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. When a range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

It is to be appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described herein in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention that are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any subcombination. Further reference to values stated in ranges include each and every value within that range.

As employed above and throughout the disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings.

 Wafer refers to a flat substrate material typically composed of silicon that optionally has various different coatings and materials deposited on its surface.

 Nanoscale refers generally to dimensions in the range of from about 0.1 nanometer nm up to about 100 nm.

 Support membrane refers generally to a thin material that is physically supported by an adjacent stronger material support membrane and thin layer support membrane are generally synonymous as used herein.

 Adhering refers to one or more processes involved in causing two or more materials to remain adjacent e.g. stick to one another. Adhering may include the formation of covalent bonds electrostatic bonds ionic bonds dispersive bonds magnetic bonds material entanglement physical interlocking or any combination thereof.

As used herein the terms top and bottom are relative to one another and do not necessarily indicate one or more orientations with respect to the earth.

In various embodiments nanogaps are formed using any of a variety of thin film support membranes. Suitable support membranes include any of a variety of thin film materials that are typically used in the field of semiconductor and photonic devices. Preferred thin film materials include silicon nitride low stress silicon nitride silicon oxide and gallium arsenide. Window grids for use in transmission electron microscopy TEM can be suitably used as support membranes such as those commercially available from SPI Supplies Inc. West Chester Pa. http www.2spi.comicatalog instruments silicon nitride.shtml . A suitable method of forming a variety of support membranes is generally described in . Support membranes can be provided using CVD or any suitable thin film deposition processes known in the art. Accordingly many different types of support membrane compositions and geometries are possible. For example any of the below listed compounds and compositions and combinations thereof can be prepared into support membranes using methods know in the art low stress silicon nitride gallium nitride amorphous carbon indium arsenide aluminum oxide Aeschynite Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Oxide Hydroxide Anatase Titanium Oxide Bindheimite Lead Antimony Oxide Hydroxide Bixbyite Manganese Iron Oxide Brookite Titanium Oxide Chrysoberyl Beryllium Aluminum Oxide Columbite Iron Manganese Niobium Tantalum Oxide Corundum Aluminum Oxide Cuprite Copper Oxide Euxenite Rare Earth Yttrium Niobium Tantalum Titanium Oxide Fergusonite Rare Earth Iron Titanium Oxide Hausmannite Manganese Oxide Hematite Iron Oxide Ice Hydrogen Oxide Ilmenite Iron Titanium Oxide Perovskite Calcium Titanium Oxide Periclase Magnesium Oxide Polycrase Rare Earth Yttrium Titanium Niobium Tantalum Oxide Pseudobrookite Iron Titanium Oxide members of the Pyrochlore Group such as Betafite Rare Earths Calcium Sodium Uranium Titanium Niobium Tantalum Oxide Hydroxide Microlite Calcium Sodium Tantalum Oxide Hydroxide Fluoride Pyrochlore Sodium Calcium Niobium Oxide Hydroxide Fluoride Ramsdellite Manganese Oxide Romanechite Hydrated Barium Manganese Oxide members of the Rutile Group such as Cassiterite Tin Oxide Plattnerite Lead Oxide Pyrolusite Manganese Oxide Rutile Titanium Oxide Stishovite Silicon Oxide Samarskite Y Rare Earth Yttrium Iron Titanium Oxide Senarmontite Antimony Oxide and members of the Spinel Group such as Chromite Iron Chromium Oxide Franidinite Zinc Manganese Iron Oxide Gahnite Zinc Aluminum Oxide Magnesiochromite Magnesium Chromium Oxide Magnetite Iron Oxide Spinel Magnesium Aluminum Oxide Taaffeite Beryllium Magnesium Aluminum Oxide Tantalite Iron Manganese Tantalum Niobium Oxide Tapiolite Iron Manganese Tantalum Niobium Oxide Uraninite Uranium Oxide Valentinite Antimony Oxide Zincite Zinc Manganese Oxide or any combination thereof. In preferred embodiments the support membranes are suitably chosen from low stress silicon nitride.

The thin film materials that give rise to suitable support membranes are preferably supplied as thin films on one or both sides of a silicon support wafer. Preferably the support membrane is highly polished such that the surface roughness is less than about 10 nm per square micron. Thin film deposited silicon support wafers are subsequently processed to remove portions of the silicon support to yield silicon supported thin films. Thin film etching can also be carried out to control the thickness of the resulting thin film support membrane.

Suitable support membranes typically have a thickness in the range of from about 10 nm to about 1000 nm and can be unsupported but are preferably supported on a substrate such as silicon. Suitable support membranes supported on a substrate form a free standing support membrane window. Free standing support membrane windows that can be suitably used in various embodiments of the present invention typically have an area in the range of from about 10square microns to about 10square microns. There is nothing in principle that prevents the window from being arbitrarily small or large so any size is possible from about 100 square nanometers up to about 1 square millimeter. The free standing support membrane window can have almost any shape such as a circle square rectangle triangle or other polygon having 4 or more sides. Further information about preparing support membranes can be found in Grant A. W. et al. 2004 15 1175 Morkved T. L. et al. Vol. 39 No. 16 pp. 3871 3875 1998 and Pandey R. K. et al. 2004 27 139. A plurality of support membranes can also be provided on wafers.

During fabrication of the nanogaps the support membrane can in some embodiments be surmounted by an imageable layer on one or both sides of the support membrane. Suitable imaging materials include particle and photon reactive compositions such as photoresists that well known in the semiconductor processing industry. Suitable photoresists include acrylic polymers many of which are commercially available from the Rohm and Haas Company Shipley Company Division Marlboro Mass. examples include i Line Photoresists 248 nm DUV Photoresists 248 nm DUV Anti Reflectants 193 nm Photoresists 193 nm Anti Reflectants 3612 photoresist 1813 photoresist Ultra i 120 NR7. Sumitomo also provides PFI88A3 photoresist. A comprehensive photoresist list can be found on line at http cmi.epfl.ch materials Photosensitive.htm.

Photolithography processes for preparing microelectronics can be suitably used in the various embodiments of the present invention. Photolithographic technologies known to those of skill in the art are described in Mei L. Vitelic Co. San Jose Calif. USA Source 1990 p 77 93 ISBN 981 02 0137 0 Conference Microlithography High Integration in Microelectronics. Proceedings of the First Workshop 28 Aug. 1 Sep. 1989 Rio de Janeiro Brazil Publisher World Scientific Singapore.

Suitable photoresists are further described in Materials and processes at the leading edge of photolithography Taylor G. N. AT T Bell Labs. Murray Hill N.J. USA Source 1988 p 257 74 ISBN 0 931837 76 6 Conference Electronic Packaging Materials Science Symposium 30 Nov. 4 Dec. 1987 Boston Mass. USA Sponsor Mater. Res. Soc. Publisher Mater. Res. Soc Pittsburgh Pa. USA. In one embodiment suitable acrylic polymer photoresists comprise a polymer having a weight average molecular weight in the range of from about 500 g mol to about 50 000 g mol.

The imageable layer can be surmounted to the support membrane using a suitable coating step to coat the imageable layer to one or both sides of the support membrane. Suitable coating processes include spin coating dip coating ink jet coating doctor blade coating microgravure coating vapor deposition drop casting and the like or any combination thereof. Among these the preferred coating steps include spin coating vapor deposition or any combination thereof. The support membrane can be surmounted by the imageable layer on one or both sides of the support membrane. Typically the support membrane is unsupported on one side and the imageable layer is surmounted on the unsupported side of the support membrane. After the imageable layer is coated and dried the deposited imageable layer typically has a thickness in the range of from about 10 nm to about 10 000 nm. Further details about coating and processing photoresists can be found in the references as described herein and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. See for example http mail.mems exchange. org pipermail mems talk 1997 September 001056.html.

Photoresists are typically imageable layers that are formulated using volatile solvents to control viscosity profile and hence film thickness. Accordingly one or more volatile components are typically removed from the imageable layer prior to imaging. In addition to the solvent photoresists can also contain a variety of small volatile molecules that are desirably removed prior to imaging. Typical volatile components include solvents diluents oligomers polymer fragments or any combination thereof.

The imageable layer is imaged using a suitable imaging source to give rise to one or more desired nanoscale features composed of a portion of the imageable layer surmounting one or both sides of the support membrane. In several embodiments the step of imaging includes exposing the imageable layer to particles typically under vacuum or photons of a sufficient energy to break or form bonds in the imageable layers. Preferably the step of imaging exposes at least a portion of the imageable layer to electrons with energies sufficient to break covalent bonds in the imageable layer. The imaged portions are typically removed in a subsequent step such as by washing or developing. Further details about imaging photoresists can be found in Materials and processes at the leading edge of photolithography by G. N. Taylor id. as well as in Overview of greyscale photolithography for microoptical elements fabrication Cui Z. et al. v 4984 2003 p 111 17 Computer simulation of positive resist photolithography Kol tsov Yu. I. . Moscow Russia Smolyanitskii I. Ya. Tsygankov V. Yu. v 24 n 1 January February 1995 p 52 62 Materials and processes in microlithography for IC fabrication Teng C H et al. Mater. Res. Labs. hid. Technol. Res. Inst. Hsinchu Taiwan 4 n 2 September 1990 p 1 7 and on the Internet at http wwvv.ece.gatech.edu research labs vc processes photoLith.html.

Suitable imaging sources include collimated particle sources such as electron beams used in electron beam lithography EBL which are preferred over photon sources such as X rays and ultraviolet light. Other imaging sources includes an atom sources atom beam lithography as well as ion sources focused ion beam lithography . Suitable imaging sources are capable of imaging the imageable layer with a resolution in the range of from about 10 nm to about 100 nm. For example Focused Ion Beam FIB uses a narrow stream of high energy charged atoms. The energies of the ions in the beam can be made sufficient to image the imageable layer and can therefore be used at least in principle instead of an electron beam. Further details about atom lithography can be found on the internet at http physicsweb.org articles news 6 10 2 1 for example by exposing a silicon substrate to a beam of metastable argon atoms. Without being bound by a particular theory of operation it is believed that metastable atoms exist in a naturally excited state and release their energy when they strike the substrate. A layer of hydrocarbons that resides on the substrate functions as the resist by adhering more strongly to the substrate when energized. To create a pattern in the atom beam a mask made of laser light can be used. Argon atoms resonant with the light are excited into an even higher state and fall back down to the ground state almost instantaneously depriving the resist of energy at the points below the mask. The mask can be made in a variety of ways with or without light beams. Additional references about atom lithography include Formation and Detection of Atomic Wavepackets Localized to the Heisenberg Uncertainty Limit A new Nanolithographic Technique K. S. Johnson J. H. Thywissen N. H. Dekker K. K. Berggren. A. P. Chu R. Younkin M. Prentiss 280 1583 1998 Demonstration of a Nanolithographic Technique Using a Self Assembled Monolayer Resist for Neutral Atomic Cesium K. K. Berggren R. Younkin E. Cheung M. Prentiss A. Black G. M. Whitesides D. C. Ralph C. T. Black M. Tinkham 9 52 55 1997 Nanolithography with metastable neon atoms Enhanced rate of contamination resist formation for nanostructure fabrication S. J. Rehse A. D. Glueck S. A. Lee A. B. Goulakov C. S. Menoni D. C. Ralph K. S. Johnson and M. Prentiss 71 1427 1997 Nanostructure fabrication in silicon using cesium to pattern a self assembled monolayer R. Younkin K. K. Berggren K. S. Johnson M. Prentiss D. C. Ralph G. M. Whitesides 71 1261 1997 .

After the imageable layer is exposed the imaging step typically further includes the step of removing at least a portion of the exposed imageable layer. The exposed imageable layer is readily removed by washing away at least a portion of the exposed imageable layer. The resulting imageable layer that remains on the support membrane after the exposed regions have been removed comprises one or more nanoscale features that are characterized as having a dimension in the range of from about 1 nm to about 100 nm with various embodiments having dimensions up to about 50 nm or up to about 40 nm or up to about 30 nm or up to about 20 nm or up to about 15 nm or up to about 12 nm or up to about 10 nm or up to about 8 um or up to about 6 nm or up to about 4 nm or up to about 3 nm or even up to about 2 nm. Typically this dimension is measured in a direction parallel to the surface of the support membrane for example wherein the dimension is the width of the nanoscale feature. Further details concerning imaging and removal of photoresists can be found in G. N. Taylor 1988 cited above. Z. Cui 2003 cited above and other references cited above.

An optional adhesive layer can be formed on at least one side of the support membrane comprising the nanoscale features. This layer helps to facilitate the bonding of the further material to the support membrane. Adhesive materials include chromium titanium aluminum platinum niobium. Adhesive materials are usually chromium titanium and preferably nickel. In some embodiments the thickness of the optional adhesive layer need only be about 1 nm but in other embodiments adhesive layer thicknesses of up to about 100 nm can be used depending on the ultimate thickness of the feature being fabricated.

One or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on at least a portion of the nanoscale features the support membrane the optional adhesive layer or any combination thereof is then formed. Suitable further materials include any type of compositions of matter that are suitably processed using any of a variety of vapor based and liquid based chemical processes. Preferred compositions of matter that are suitably used as further materials for surmounting on at least a portion of the nanoscale features can be lifted off the imageable layer in a washing step and which remain adhered to the support membrane or adhesive layer. Suitable further materials include in some embodiments conductive metals such as gold silver platinum copper chromium titanium aluminum niobium or any combination thereof. The further materials especially metals can be applied using CVD MBE sputtering or any combination thereof. CVD is preferred. Suitable thicknesses of the further materials for deposition range from a single atomic or molecular layer using MBE to arbitrarily thick layers. The further materials are preferably between one and ten nanometers thick. Further details about these methods can be generally found in the references as cited herein.

Any of a variety of semiconductor materials can also be applied on at least a portion of the nanoscale features and the support membrane for providing nanogaps residing between semiconductor structures. For example suitable semiconductor materials include epitaxially grown II VI and BIN semiconductor layers. Other suitable semiconductor materials are further described hereinabove. Insulator materials can be deposited on the nanoscale features and support membrane. For example suitable insulators include silicon nitride silicon oxide as well as any of the materials described hereinabove that are suitable for forming support membranes.

At least a portion of the one or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on at least a portion of the nanoscale features is removed to give rise to one or more nanogaps residing proximate to one or more layers of one or more further materials surmounted on the support membrane the optional adhesive layer or any combination thereof. The portion of the further materials that are removed typically adheres to the surface of the remaining imageable layer. Accordingly the further materials are typically removed by washing away the remaining imageable layer using a suitable solvent. For example removing the nanoscale features from the support membrane together with the further material adhering to the nanofeature to give rise to the nanogap i.e. lift off can be achieved by dissolving removing the imageable layer on top of which the unwanted deposited material i.e. further material rests. This can be accomplished by putting the device which at this point has the further material on it into a suitable solvent e.g. acetone for dissolving the imageable layer and then waiting for the imageable layer to dissolve e.g. ca. 30 minutes . Consequently the unwanted further material is removed. Suitable conditions include soaking in a suitable solvent for some time for example less than about one hour less than out four hours less than about eight hours less than about 12 hours or even for 12 or more hours i.e. overnight . Combinations of two or more solvents such as methylene chloride and acetone can also be used. Typical ratios are between 1 1 and 9 1 methylene chloride acetone . The temperature of the solvent can be room temperature or above room temperature. It may be more rapid to heat the solvent to a temperature as high as its boiling point. Instead of or in addition to heating the dissolving liquid can be stirred e.g. with a stir bar . Sonication can be used but the membrane may break. However because it is possible to deposit material onto the back of the membrane after depositing material onto the lithography side but before doing the lift off the membrane may be made to withstand sonication with support from this additional material. In preferred embodiments the imageable material that gives rise to the formation of the nanogap is typically removed at the same time as the remaining unwanted material is removed. After the main lift off is accomplished it may be useful to flow additional dissolving liquid or some other substance such as a high pressure gas or both across the surface of the membrane to remove additional unwanted material. After lift off the resulting nanogap device can be cleaned with a suitable cleaning solvent such as an alcohol e.g. isopropyl alcohol deionized water or any combination thereof. The resulting nanogap device can also be exposed to oxygen plasma to eliminate residual organic matter from the surface of the device.

At least a portion of the further materials that are removed forms the nanogap which resides adjacent to further material that adheres directly to or via an optional adhesive layer the support membrane. A suitable nanogap is characterized as having a dimension in the range of from about 1 nm to about 100 nm with various embodiments having dimensions up to about 50 nm or up to about 40 nm or up to about 30 nm or up to about 20 nm or up to about 15 nm or up to about 12 nm or up to about 10 nm or up to about 8 nm or up to about 6 nm or up to about 4 nm or up to about 3 nm or even up to about 2 nm. Typically this dimension is measured in a direction parallel to the surface of the support membrane for example wherein the dimension is the width of the nanoscale feature.

In another embodiment of the present invention the methods described hereinabove for fabricating nanogaps can further comprise one or more additional device fabrication steps. The additional device fabrication steps can be performed before during or after the one or more nanogaps are formed. These additional steps can be performed on a side of the support membrane comprising the one or more nanogaps or on a side of the support membrane opposed to the side of the support membrane comprising the one or more nanogaps or both. Additional types of device fabrication steps can generally be found in Madou M. J. Fundamentals of Microfabrication The Science of Miniaturization Second Edition CRC Press 2002. The principles described in this reference can be suitably practiced by one of ordinary skill in the art in combination with this disclosure to make semiconductor devices that include one of more nanogaps.

In another embodiment of the present invention the methods described hereinabove for fabricating nanogaps can further comprise the step of providing one or more nanostructures within at least a portion of the one or more nanogaps or within each of the one or more nanogaps. In these embodiments at least a portion of the one or more nanostructures are deposited into the nanogaps. This can be advantageously used for example for depositing semiconducting nanocrystals in the nanogaps for making nanogap field effect devices. In other embodiments at least a portion of the one or more nanostructures are synthesized within the nanogaps. For example a carbon nanotube catalytic growth site can be deposited in the nanogap and then a single wall carbon nanotube can be grown from the nanogap. In these embodiments the one or more nanostructures are electronically or photonically coupled to the support membrane the optional adhesive layer the further material or any combination thereof. This is useful in preparing electronic and photonic devices.

In other embodiments of the present invention there are also provided methods for creating small nanofeatures in support membranes. These methods include providing a support membrane surmounted by an imageable layer on one or both sides of the support membrane imaging the imageable layer to give rise to one or more desired nanoscale features composed of a portion of the imageable layer surmounted on one or both sides of the support membrane and etching a portion of the support membrane residing proximate to the one or more desired nanoscale features to give rise to a support membrane nanofeature composed of a portion of the support membrane. In additional related embodiments these methods can further include the step of removing the one or more desired nanoscale features composed of a portion of the imageable layer. Useful devices can be made according these methods such as masks for producing nanogaps as described further herein.

One or more nanostructures can be suitably placed in a nanogap using any of a variety of processes known in the art. Suitable nanostructure manipulation processes include for example using an edge effect assembly process as disclosed in Nanostructure Assemblies Methods and Devices Thereof U.S. Patent Application No. 60 663 637 filed Mar. 21 2005 the portion of which directed to the edge effect assembly process is incorporated by reference herein dip pen lithography chemical bond between electrodes and functionalized nanostructure growing the nanostructure in the nanogap with a catalyst. Additional details that teach how to manipulate molecularly linked nanostructures and electrodes can be found in the following references Klein D. L. Roth R. Lim A. K. L. Alivisatos A. P. McEuen P. L. 1997 389 701 Chen J. Reed M. A. Rawlett A. M. Tour J. M. 1999 286 1550 and Sun L. F. Chin S. N. Marx E. Curtis K. S. Greenham N. C. Ford C. J. B. 2005 16 631. Electrostatic trapping can also be used and is described in Bezryadin A. Dekker C. J. 1997 15 4 793.

In one embodiment a method of providing nanoscale features is substantially free from all of the problems that the prior methods suffer from. In the field of patterning complicated nanoscale structures onto surfaces a high resolution imaging process such as electron beam lithography EBL is used to achieve high resolution. For example nanoscale resolutions of 20 50 nm features on typical EBL machines. EBL is a several step process that typically uses a doped silicon substrate coated with a several hundred nanometer thick oxide layer. An additional layer of an imageable layer such as a photoresist is formed on the insulating layer by a suitable coating process for example spin coating. Other coating processes can be suitably used. The wafer is then placed in a high vacuum environment where it is exposed to a focused electron beam in targeted areas. The resist is exposed to electrons with energies sufficient to break the covalent polymer bonds in the targeted areas. The molecular weight of the polymers e.g. PMMA is therefore reduced and their solubility is increased significantly. Upon being removed from the vacuum writing chamber the wafer is rinsed with a suitable solvent e.g. a combination of MIBK and IPA solution 1 3 volume ratio which dissolves the resist. The remaining resist acts as a stencil of the lithographically defined pattern. The surface can either be etched in this pattern e.g. with SF to form trenches or holes or a material can be deposited to form the desired nanoscale features. To make electronic devices metal can be evaporated onto the surface to form wires. This is commonly referred to as metallization . The metal that is evaporated onto the wafer will make contact with the substrate in the areas where resist has been removed and the insulating layer is exposed. Elsewhere the metallic atoms make contact with the resist and are removed when the resist is washed away with acetone in a subsequent step. An EBL defined pattern of the evaporated metal is all that remains on the substrate after this so called lift off step is completed.

A primary factor that limits the feature resolution of EEL is circumvented in the synthesis of nanogaps as described herein. The diameter of an electron beam can be focused down to less than one nanometer however the smallest features that can be written into the resist is an order of magnitude larger than the beam diameter when EBL is performed on the standard insulator on doped silicon wafer Broers A. N. 1988 32 4 . Without being limited by any theory of operation shows a schematic of the trajectories of electrons moving through different materials. As indicated in the figure the incident electron beam actually passes through the PMMA resist and the insulating layer in this example SiO without affecting most of the resist polymers bonds. It is when these forward scattered electrons reach the doped silicon layer that a large number of electrons in the silicon get ionized and are emitted from the surface with energies up to 20 eV. Electrons with energies 5 eV and higher are sufficient to break the PMMA polymer bonds. The size of this burst of back scattered electrons therefore largely determines the size of the feature written. In general areas which can be intended to remain unexposed can actually be exposed to a large dose of energetic electrons. This phenomenon is known as the Proximity Effect Chang T. H. P. 1975 12 1271. If the distributions of electron scattering are assumed to be Gaussian with characteristic widths and for the forward scattered and back scattered electrons respectively then the distribution of total resist exposure is given approximately by the Energy Deposition Function EDF Parikh M. Kyser D. 1979 50 1104 exp exp . 1 In this expression r is the radial distance from the exposure center is the ratio between the energy dissipation of backscattered electrons and the incident electrons along the beam axis and k is a constant used to normalize the function to 1 at r 0. Kyser and Parikh reported values of 0.51 0.06 m and 2.6 m for a 500 nm thick resist layer on a silicon substrate with a 25 keV electron beam Parikh M. Kyser D. J. 1979 50 1104. In general the value of decreases with increasing accelerating voltage while increases and both are dependent on the electron beam energy and resist thickness. also depends on the substrate material because of the sensitivity of the electron scattering cross section to the atomic weight of the scatterer. In contrast n is nearly independent of these values. According to Eq. 1 exposure is 0.5 at r 0.36 m for the stated parameters in the limit of an infinitely narrow incident beam. The finite width of the incident electron beam can also be described by a Gaussian with characteristic width and is easily incorporated into the EDF by replacing and with and respectively.

The procedure demonstrated for the production of nanogaps and other small structures in these examples is based on minimizing and allowing the feature size to be limited instead by the much smaller value . This is achieved by selectively removing complete sections of the doped silicon beneath specific regions of the insulating layer. shows a schematic of a suitable support membrane supported substrate used in an embodiment of the present invention. A supported SiNsupport membrane is provided that spans an opening in a layer of positively doped silicon. For EBL performed on the thin support membrane region electron back scattering is negligible i.e. 0 and the proximity effect is therefore reduced dramatically. Without being bound by any particular theory of operation Eq. 1 implies that for EBL performed on insulating support membrane substrates F r exp r . 2 However the distribution of forward scattered electrons actually decreases with increasing r even faster than a Gaussian and therefore the distribution of forward scattered electrons is better approximated by a more detailed consideration of the multiple small angle scattering events of the incident electrons in the resist for further details see Scott W. T. 1963 35 231 .

Because of the extremely narrow distribution of the incident electrons it is possible to pattern two features down to 1 nm apart as is indicated by the closely spaced 1 and 2 write steps in . If backscattering were present the two neighboring features would overlap and result in one continuous feature.

Without being bound by any particular theory of operation in the limit of no scattering of any kind and an infinitely narrow electron beam the distribution of exposed PMMA is determined purely by its interaction with the electromagnetic fields produced by the incident electrons. Using first order time dependent perturbation theory Lutwyche M. I. 1992 17 17 the probability of exposing a PMMA molecule a distance r from a 1 dimensional electron beam can be calculated as constant exp 2 4 . 3 Here T is the kinetic energy of an incident electron m is its mass h is Plank s constant c is the speed of light and E is the energy required to expose a PMMA molecule it is initially in its ground state. The probability for exposure therefore approaches zero exponentially as electron energy increases. Since forward scattering also decreases as the beam energy increases the distribution of exposed resist can in principle approach the exact diameter of the electron beam for sufficiently high energies. Electron beams several angstroms in diameter have been achieved previously Broers A. N. 1988 32 4 .

Thin resist films can also be used to reduce the spreading of the beam due to forward scattering as it passes through. For example for a 50 kV electron beam is reduced from 0.07 m to 0.013 gm when working with a 60 nm layer of resist instead of a 1 m thick layer Id. . Numerous measurements have indicated that feature size is independent of the molecular weight of the resist. The choice of PMMA molecular weight does however control the minimum thickness attainable by spin casting and it is difficult to get below 100 nm thickness. Contamination resists can be used instead of PMMA Broers A. N. Molzen W. W. Cuomo J. J. Wittels N. D. 1976 29 596 but they are not required as high quality nanogaps can be achieved even with a 1 m thick layer of PMMA.

In these examples lithography was performed on thin SiN silicon nitride support membrane substrates with a thermal emission JEOL 6400 Scanning Electron Microscope SEM operating at its maximum accelerating voltage of 30 kV. The electron beam was controlled with a Raith writing program. The smallest attainable beam diameter on this instrument was 30 nm. Production of wafers with well defined square regions of free standing insulator only material is straightforward to achieve and easy to make in large numbers Grant A. W. Hu Q. H Kasemo B. 2004 15 1175 . They are also available commercially from Structure Probe Inc. SPI West Chester Pa. http www.2spi.com .

Support membrane substrates were fabricated using a procedure in which doped silicon Si wafers with highly polished 100 nm thick low stress silicon nitride SiN layers grown on both sides are first coated with photoresist. Photolithography was then used to remove a square region of the resist thereby revealing the SiNunderneath. This side of the wafer was then exposed to a SFplasma etch which removes a square of SiN revealing the Si underneath. Finally the wafer was exposed to a KOH wet etch. The KOH etches anisotropically through the Si along lattices planes until the SiNon the other side of the wafer is revealed. A free standing support membrane window in one example 50 50 m of 100 nm thick SiNis therefore defined. These low stress SiNsupport membranes are robust and no special care is required when handling the processed wafers.

The thickness of the SiNsupport membrane can be reduced with SFreactive ion etching using the procedure described by Reyes Betanzo C Moshkayov S. A. Ramos A. C. S. Swart J. W. 2004 22 1513. In order to calibrate the etching rate EBL was used to pattern squares into a resist layer on a collection of SiNsupport membranes and then exposed each wafer to the SFetch for a different amount of time. After removing any remaining resist the wafers surfaces were imaged with Atomic Force Microscopy AFM . AFM height contours were used to determine the etch depth and surface roughness. Surfaces exposed to SFplasma at 50 Watts etched evenly at a rate of 1.00 0.01 nm sec. AFM topographical imaging revealed that the etched surfaces were smooth having an average z mof 0.1 nm. Support membranes were successfully etched down to at least 10 nm without any damage or irregularities as indicated by the AFM height contours. TEM imaging is improved as the thickness of the support membrane is decreased and nanostructure self assembly can be facilitated by the smooth surface. It is easy to evaporate a gate layer onto the back side of the window and fabricate a full FET geometry with a tailored insulating layer thickness. 3.5 nm thick SiNsupport membranes grown from a Jet Vapor Deposition JVD technique have a dielectric constant of 7 and a breakdown voltage of 10V cm from source to gate Ma T. P. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 1998 45 680 which makes them superior to SiOfor use as an insulating layer. SiNsupport membranes are therefore excellent materials for the purpose of making ultra small FETs and other nano devices.

A 1 m thick layer of PMMA 950 molecular weight in 4 chlorobenzene was spin casted onto the SiNwindows. Nanogaps were written using a 10 pA electron beam in a chamber with pressure below 10Torr. The resist was exposed to beam doses ranging from 100 C cmto 400 C cmand then developed in MIBK IPA 3 1 for 60 seconds. For metallization several nanometers of chromium were evaporated first to act as an adhesion layer between the gold and the substrate. Finally between 10 and 50 nm of gold were evaporated though the electrode s thickness is not limited to these values. The wafers were put into acetone at room temperature in order to achieve lift off. The nanogaps were then imaged with a JEOL 2010F Transmission Electron Microscope.

A highly efficient route to fabricating nanometer size electrode nanogaps is provided according to aspects of the present invention. The fabrication is direct and can be achieved by anyone with access to an E Beam writer. The resultant devices made with these methods are readily imaged using HRTEM because they are fabricated on thin film support membranes. The ability to clearly image the nanogaps allows the quality of the nanogap as well as the details of coupling of samples to the electrical contacts to be analyzed. The value of nanogaps is clear. In addition to their demonstrated potential for use in powerful and exotic new devices nanogaps represent a landmark in the advancement of modern technology towards bridging the gap between the classical and quantum worlds.

