---

title: Communication device and method to derive context information
abstract: A communication device comprises processing means, storage means for storing a database of language components, display means and user interface means. The processing means is arranged to determine at least one qualifier, to access the database, and to select at least one language component according to the at least one determined qualifier, and the display means is arranged to display the at least selected language component. A user can select a displayed language component, and this can be outputted as an audio or wireless signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07881922&OS=07881922&RS=07881922
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07881922
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060908
---
This invention relates to a communication device and to a communication method. The device and method derive relevant context information for intelligent sentence selection using location and other qualifiers.

Communication is everywhere for example I would like a hamburger please or I would like a single ticket to London please. The use of such simple phrases is taken for granted by most people most of the time as it forms an essential part of our lives. However for some people simple communication does not come so easily. One reason for such problems in simple communication is disability being deaf blind or mute each of which can be a major barrier to easy communication and in combination can make everyday situations very challenging. Another reason that communication can be difficult is simply a language barrier which occurs when attempting to communicate with someone who does not speak your language.

Two known solutions to these problems exist. Firstly an individual who has difficulty communicating through disability or language problems can get someone who is fluent in the desired language to act as a middleman. This solution has a number of problems notably that such an intermediary is not always available it is inconvenient sometimes awkward and can be annoying and or embarrassing for all of the parties involved in such an exchange.

A second solution is the use of a voice synthesizer. A synthesizer allows a user to type in a language component as desired and the synthesizer will then output in audio the typed language component. This solution also has problems because it requires a perfect knowledge of the desired language and the use of a synthesizer requires the time and effort in typing the language component which can be again annoying and or embarrassing for both parties. This also does nothing to address communication back in the other direction.

According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a communication device comprising processing means and storage means for storing a database of language components wherein the processing means is arranged to determine at least one qualifier to access the database and to select at least one language component according to the or each determined qualifier.

According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for execution by a communication device the method comprising the steps of determining at least one qualifier accessing a database of language components and selecting at least one language component according to the or each determined qualifier.

According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a computer program product on a computer readable medium comprising instructions for determining at least one qualifier accessing a database of language components and for selecting at least one language component according to the or each determined qualifier.

Owing to the invention it is possible to provide a device that will automatically provide a user with a selection of language components usually sentences that are appropriate to the context in which the user is placed. No input is required from the user. This invention provides solutions with a common foundation to address situations covering a broad range of people in this world of globalization including workers from abroad tourists the deaf and hard of hearing and people with speech difficulty.

An embodiments of the present invention provides a method and system for generating a list of context relevant sentences based on available qualifiers information and user preferences. By intelligently producing a targeted list of context relevant choices the system provides the user with an instant method of selecting sentences that are appropriate to their current situation. Where necessary a similar set of context relevant responses that the other party can select can also be provided.

Preferably the device is provided with display means the display means being arranged to display at least one selected language component. The user can see the selected language components and can review them and choose one to speak. The output of the communication device need not be displayed directly by the device but may be transferred for use by another device that a user has access to such as a mobile phone or a Braille device that can represent the list of selected language components.

Advantageously the device further comprises location determining means the processing means being arranged to define a qualifier according to the output of the location determining means. By determining the location of the communication device and thereby the user a qualifier can be constructed for filtering the language components that will provide a very good chance of matching the selected components to the environment and situation that the user is presently experiencing.

Similarly the communication device preferably further comprises a clock the processing means being arranged to define a qualifier according to the output of the clock. The determination of a qualifier according to the present time will increase the likelihood of selecting one or more language components that the user will wish to use.

Ideally the device further comprises audio output means the audio output means arranged to output an audio signal corresponding to a language component in response to a user input at user interface means. If the device is equipped with an audio capability then the user via the user interface which may be a keypad or touch screen can select one of the language components that are displayed and this can be outputted as an audio signal.

Advantageously the communication device further comprises wireless transmitting means the wireless transmitting means arranged to output a wireless signal corresponding to a language component in response to a user input at the user interface means. The wireless functionality of the device supports the device bypassing any need for the user to interact with another person. For example the device could be used in an environment where a signal sent via a short range wireless communication link can be received and understood by another device. This might be used for ordering in a restaurant or buying a travel ticket or the like.

Preferably the processing means is further arranged when selecting a plurality of language components to order the language components according to at least one predetermined parameter. The ordering of the language components assists the user to make their choice from all of the displayed language components. The ordering may be according to most used components or most used components at a particular location or any such similar ordering that will present the user with the components that they are most likely to want to use at that particular time with the most likely presented first in a suitably short list of for example five possible language components.

The purpose of the device is to assist a user in communicating when they are in a situation where communication is difficult. As discussed above this could be because the user has traveled to a country where they are not familiar with the spoken language of that country or could be because the user has a disability that makes communication in some situations difficult. The device will provide the user via the display means with a selection of language components that the device believes are relevant to the present environment in which the user is placed.

The device can provide the user with a list of suitable language components on demand or can be continually providing a changing list of sentences that the user can look at as and when they feel that they need assistance. The processor has to filter the very long list of language components down to a small number of suitable components appropriate to the user s context which may be indoors at a restaurant or retail outlet or outdoors at a transport terminus such as a railway station or bus stop.

In order to create the list of components which may comprise only a single selected component the processing means is arranged to determine at least one qualifier . The qualifier s is are used to subsequently filter the database of language components . The location determining means shown in as a GPS Global Positioning System unit can identify accurately the location of the user and the processing means is arranged to define a qualifier according to the output of the location determining means . Likewise the clock can be used by the processing means to define a qualifier according to the output of the clock .

In the outputs of the various sensing devices are summarised by the inputs which provide varied and detailed information to the processor for the processor to define the various qualifiers . The qualifiers need not be especially complicated. For example the processor from the output of the GPS unit may define the location qualifier as A for food outlet with A1 being fast food restaurant A2 being sandwich shop etc. B could be retail outlet B1 being clothes shop and C could be transport terminus etc.

Once the processor has defined one or more qualifiers the processor is arranged to access the database and to select at least one language component according to the determined qualifier s . The language components are organised within the database with associated data that defines the possible contexts in which the corresponding component may be used. For example the language component I would like a ham sandwich please. would have the data A2 attached in respect of location.

The processor will filter the database in a preferred embodiment using all of the qualifiers that are available as this will produce the shortest list of possible language components . However other qualifier strategies are possible for example using a single qualifier such as location or having an adaptive determination of qualifiers according to a user profile stored by the device .

Following selection of the language components that the processor has determined are most likely to be relevant to a user then the display means is arranged to display each selected language component or just the single selected component if there is only one returned by the processor .

The processing means is further arranged advantageously when selecting the plurality of language components for display to order the language components . The ordering is according to at least one predetermined parameter. The ordering may be based upon prior selection by a user or a user profile or the device may itself decide which is the most likely sentence for the user to wish to use based upon the comparison of the qualifiers with the data associated with the selected components .

The audio output means can output an audio signal corresponding to the specific language component chosen by the user in response to the user input at the user interface means . Alternatively or in addition the wireless transmitting means can output a wireless signal corresponding to the chosen language component in response to the user input at the user interface means . When the wireless capability is used the user choice may correspond to an order for food in this context and the chosen sentence will be transmitted to a till provided by the fast food establishment as the appropriate food order. This facilitates the communication from the user.

The storing of the language components in the database can be organised in terms of zones where a zone can be a location or a set of related locations. For example a user can step onto a bus faced with the bus driver. The device with its GPS device can locate the user at a bus stop in Westminster. The device accesses the bus stop zone and narrows the list of relevant language components down to bus related generic ones Does this bus goes to x and A single to y please . The device generates the list using place names around Westminster for example Does this bus goes to Hammersmith . The user is able to select the sentence using the user interface on the device . The device asks the bus driver in perfect spoken English for a ticket.

The database can be divided into zones tables each zone is for a relevant place and inside it are relevant qualifiers and possible sentences that are appropriate to that zone. New zones can be added easily by users through manual input or application of provided table updates. A set of zones could include such things as TAXI RANK RESTAURANT TRAIN STATION BUS STOP SUPER MARKET. A zone may have many possibly language components. Each component sentence includes a link to a location based upon association which effects the positioning in any list of components provided to a user. This association can be learned over time based on where a component is used. The frequency of use raises the level of association with the location in which it is used.

The list of relevant sentences can be narrowed further for example by the device identifying that the user is standing on the side of the road that heads into not away from Hammersmith and narrows the list of relevant sentences to only places in Hammersmith. Equally the device via the wireless interface can contact and download from an external provider either a list of relevant sentences from the provider or the necessary information and generates relevant sentences.

Any external provider can send a list of any required qualifiers which the device gathers and sends back to the provider the provider can then calculate the list of relevant sentences using the qualifiers and send them back to the device . For example the bus company provider can send a list of required qualifiers for example location time direction which the device returns and then with the qualifiers the bus company provider looks up the timetable in real time and returns relevant sentences.

This can be extended further. The device can send alongside with qualifier data the sets of qualifiers that the device wants back from the external provider. For example as above but the device tells the provider that it wants just the location qualifier which is the places to which the bus goes. The provider looks up the timetable gathers all the place names and then sends them back. The device then produces sentences of its own. Alternatively the device could ask for times as well as places in order to produce sentences like Will we arrive in Hammersmith at 10.34 pm where 10.34 pm is gathered from the timetables.

In other situations the device can interface with data drawn from third parties in other ways. For example when a user walks into a take away establishment the GPS component compares the location with a map provided by an independent party for example by accessing data on a yellow pages style website and learns that the user is in a fast food restaurant. Consequently the device looks up for relevant sentences relating to a fast food restaurant and other qualifiers for example summer means ice cream . A fast food restaurant is a generic zone but for specific brands and large companies they can be defined as separate zones. The database can have information about specific branded products and accordingly generate sentences that are brand specific to assist the user.

The database can be provided by an independent party such as a public body such as a council or provided through the Internet by a user community where algorithms rules and information can be downloaded as packs. The database can also be provided by the commercial organisations. This has the advantage that the chain is made accessible to those who are unable to speak English and therefore address the problems of non native language speakers.

The wireless capability of the device can also be utilised locally to receive information from service providers. For example a user walks into a restaurant one of a big chain and this restaurant provides data through a wireless access point. My device is told it is inside a specific brand of restaurant and is uploaded with the menu each menu item links to a suitable set of sentences that can be used to order that item. The user can show the screen of the device to the person behind the till who reads the order. Alternatively the store provides a fast service till that takes orders directly from the device . The user walks up having made a selection and presses order resulting in the order being communicated directly to the till.

The same technology can be used to provide information to a Braille device that can be used by the blind to easily find pick context relevant information such as menus special offers etc. The output from the device can be either directly from the display of the device or can be passed to another device such as a Braille device or a combination of these two outputs can be used.

The device can also be used as a language learning tool a personal teacher. This means that a student can go anywhere and get a list of things they re likely to want to say or ask the device gives the student a list of sentences they would normally use using the information the device has stored in a similar manner to the examples above.

These examples show that by using easily available context information about location and time of day some intelligent choices can be processed to grant a significant improvement of independence to those that would otherwise struggle to communicate in every day situations.

This technology helps both those who a do not know what to say can t speak the native language can t see the options b know what to say but can t say it allowing them to quickly and efficiently get the message across either visually or audibly with the use of the device in combination with technology like voice synthesizer and text display.

The processor can operate the method of in a wide variety of different ways. Below are described implementations of the working of the device including pseudocode logic for the processing that would need to be executed to narrow the possibilities to a manageable and navigable set of options.

2. Run the qualifiers through a function which returns a list of zones that are prioritized. For example Specific brand fast food restaurant restaurant business property building town.

This produces a prioritized list representing aspects of standing outside a specific place the top of the list are specific things to do with interacting inside the specific brand of restaurant. The context however maybe that it s just a recognizable landmark and the user is lost such that building would allow the device to produce questions like where is for when the user is presumably lost. Likewise for town the device can produce questions like where is for a list of important places in the town when the user is in town and when the user is in the countryside the device would be referring to landmark places in the countryside like walk routes picnic areas nearest pub and towns in the locality .

3. For each of the zones starting with the highest prioritized one the restaurant brand in the above example run brand qualifiers where list of brand related sentences would be generated using the qualifiers. Such a function can be as simple as 

The remaining qualifiers are passed for the purpose of narrowing down the sentences returned. For example the database would return nothing if the device knows that the time is 4 am. Of course the next zone can be tried for any relevant sentences for example down to building when you get language components such as where s the station and so on being returned.

Step 3 above is a simple system using the foundation as explained above. The same foundation can be used by advanced systems utilizing more intelligent algorithms like the following generic algorithm 

The device can produce zones branded establishment fastfood restaurant . . . a prioritised list as one of the qualifiers so removing the need for a separate function for each zone.

This would also allow more advanced selecting using two or more zones in the list for example car park . . . town and car park . . . countryside where the town and countryside information would help the function dealing with car park . The resultant query would produce a hierarchical list of options that would start at the level of zones allowing the user to select the one most relevant then moving to a selection of actual sentences most applicable to that zone. This provides a two step navigation to reach context relevant options.

DATE on Saturdays the user will most likely not want to go to work locations or offices as they would be closed. Similar considerations would apply on bank holidays personal holiday and so on.

SELECTION HISTORY what the user did last and what the user did last time they were at a specific location or at this time.

CHARACTERISTICS the user is a vegetarian and therefore doesn t want meat options listed in a restaurant.

WHO YOU RE WITH by using a short range wireless link such as Bluetooth or similar the device can identify a person accompanying the user and thus narrow the list based upon activities undertaken with this person.

LAST USE for example if a user has just used the device to give a taxi driver instructions then it is likely that the next need will be to communicate payment.

The database also contains a list of specific places locations and the zone they apply to. These can be pre programmed downloaded or the user can program them manually. As an example of the latter possibility if a user were for example standing at a local taxi rank the user can select store location following prompts. The user is able to give it a name for example Westminster station taxi rank and define it as zone of the type TAXI RANK selectable from a menu and give it a time relevance of ANY. Utilizing GPS or similar location technology the device stores the coordinates of this location.

Similarly in a favourite restaurant the user can mark that location attach to the location the zone RESTAURANT and define a time relevance of 12 pm to 11 pm it s opening hours and KEY TIMES of 12 pm to 2 pm and 7 pm to 10 pm lunch and dinner . Other locations can be added by third parties such as the local council or a business. For example a user can enter a train station and via Bluetooth wireless scan for location information. Such information is available and the device downloads the details for this location and it s ZONE . The device can also at the same time update the zone of TRAIN STATION with any language components relevant to this location.

The language components stored by the database can also include associated information about the specific relevance of the component. Included in this information is a list of related selections that would naturally follow from the specific component. For example the component Please could you take me to Hammersmith in the TAXI RANK table could link to the component How much do I owe you .

Selections can also have time relevance associated with them for example between 9 am and 5 pm . Historical usage such as a list of the times places that this selection has been used before can also be accumulated and stored for each and all components. This helps to build a profile over time to aid prioritization based on personal use. Likewise the frequency of use to aid relative positioning with other selections under the same qualifiers can be monitored to improve performance of the selection of the language components by the processor of the communication device .

