---

title: System and method for storing and accessing data files at wireless devices
abstract: A method of providing access to data files within a wireless device is provided and includes detecting a selection of a first user interface component. The first user interface component can be linked to a private portion of the wireless device. Further, the method includes detecting a selection of a second user interface component. The second user interface component can be linked to a public portion of the wireless device. The wireless device includes a keypad and the first user interface component or the second user interface component can be selected using a press and hold keypress sequence on the keypad. When the first user interface component is selected, access is provided to the private portion of the wireless device. Conversely, when the second user interface component is selected, access is provided to the public portion of the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07984109&OS=07984109&RS=07984109
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07984109
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
The present disclosure generally relates to wireless devices. More particularly the disclosure relates to storing and accessing data files at wireless devices.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful wireless devices. For example there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Further many such wireless devices provide significant computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

Typically these smaller and more powerful wireless devices are often resource constrained. For example the screen size the amount of available memory and file system space and the amount of input and output capabilities may be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is can be desirable to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such wireless devices.

Some of these wireless devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device system hardware and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function thus not requiring the developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can provide one or more interfaces to particular hardware and software features found on wireless devices.

Further the BREW platform can be used in an end to end software distribution system to provide a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and wireless device manufacturers and consumers. One such currently available end to end software distribution system called the BREW solution developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated includes logic distributed over a server client architecture wherein the server can perform billing security and application distribution functionality and wherein the client can perform application execution security and user interface functionality.

Additionally data files stored at a wireless device can include a variety of data file types having different end uses. For example some data files are private and are intended for use by the owner of the portable computer device or others that have been given permission by the owner. Other data files such as images of friends or family may be shared freely and desired to be displayed by the owner to others. Conventional wireless devices treat different data files types in a common manner. It would be advantageous to provide a user with the ability to control and customize the storage use and display of different data file types having different purposes.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an improved system and method of storing and accessing data files at wireless devices.

A method of providing access to data files within a wireless device is provided and includes detecting a selection of a first user interface component. The first user interface component can be linked to a private portion of the wireless device. Further the method includes detecting a selection of a second user interface component. The second user interface component can be linked to a public portion of the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment the wireless device includes a keypad and the first user interface component or the second user interface component can be selected using a press and hold keypress sequence on the keypad. Alternatively the first user interface component or the second user interface component can be selected using a rapid double keypress sequence or any other keypress sequence. When the first user interface component is selected access is provided to the private portion of the wireless device. Conversely when the second user interface component is selected access is provided to the public portion of the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment a user may be prompted for a password after the first user interface component is selected and access to the private portion may be provided after a correct password is received. Further access can be provided to one or more private data files or private applications stored within the private portion of the wireless device. When the second user interface component is selected access may be provided to one or more public data files or public applications that are stored within the public portion of the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment the public data file the private data file or both the public data file and the private data file can be an audio data file a video data file or a still image data file. Particularly the audio data file can be an MPEG audio layer three MP3 data file a waveform audio format WAV data file a wma data file an OGG data file a Monkey s Audio digital data file APE data file a VOX data file a Real Audio RA data file a synthetic music mobile application format MMF data file or musical instrument digital interface MID data file a phrase format SPF data file or a Qualcomm PureVoice audio data file QCP . Also the video data file can a moving picture experts group MPEG data file an audio video interleave AVI data file a Windows media video WMV data file an advanced streaming format ASF data file a Quicktime MOV data file or a Real Media RM data file. Further the image data file can be a joint photographic experts group JPEG data file a graphics interchange format GIF data file a tagged image data file format TIEF data file an Adobe Photoshop PSD data file a portable networks graphics PNG data file or a windows metadata file WMF data file.

In a particular embodiment the first user interface component can be a voice user interface component a physical user interface component a graphical user interface component or a touch screen user interface component. Also the second user interface component can be a voice user interface component a physical user interface component a graphical user interface component or a touch screen user interface component. Additionally the wireless device can be a cellular telephone a portable digital assistant and a pager.

In another embodiment a method of storing data files at a wireless device is provided and includes receiving a data file at the wireless device. A data file type associated with the data file is detected. Also the data file is stored within a private portion of the wireless device or within a public portion of the wireless device based on the data file type.

In yet another embodiment a method of storing data files at a wireless device is provided and includes receiving a first data file at a wireless device. A user is queried to determine whether to store the first data file within a private portion of the wireless device or a public portion of the wireless device.

In still another embodiment a method of processing data files for communication between a first wireless device and a second wireless device is provided and includes establishing a wireless connection between the first wireless device and the second wireless device. The method also includes determining whether the second device is an identified device. Further the method includes determining whether the second device is a trusted device.

In yet still another embodiment a wireless device includes a processor and a memory device that is accessible by the processor. Particularly the memory device includes a private portion and a public portion. The wireless device further includes a first user interface component that is associated with the private portion and a second user interface component that is associated with the public portion.

In another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to generate a first user interface component. The first user interface component is associated with a private portion of a wireless device. The computer program also includes instructions to generate a second user interface component. The second user interface component is associated with a public portion of the wireless device. Additionally the computer program includes instructions to navigate from the private portion of the portable computing to the public portion of the wireless device in response to a selection of the first user interface component. Also the computer program includes instructions to navigate from the public portion of the portable computing to the private portion of the wireless device in response to a selection of the second user interface component.

In still another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive a data file at a wireless device instructions to detect a data file type associated with the data file and instructions to determine whether to store the data file within a private portion of the wireless device or within a public portion of the wireless device at least partially based on the data file type.

In still yet another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive a first data file at a wireless device and instructions to query a user and receive a user response to determine whether to store the first data file within a private portion of the wireless device or a public portion of the wireless device.

In another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to establish a wireless connection between a first wireless device and a second wireless device instructions to determine whether the second wireless device is an identified device and instructions to determine whether the second device is a trusted device.

In another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor and a memory device that is accessible by the processor. Particularly the memory device includes a private portion and a public portion. Also a computer program is embedded within the memory device and includes instructions to generate a first user interface component and instructions to generate a second user interface component. The first user interface component is linked to a private portion of a wireless device. Moreover the second user interface component is linked to a public portion of the wireless device. The computer program also includes instructions to navigate from the private portion of the portable computing to the public portion of the wireless device when the first user interface component is selected. Further the computer program includes instructions to navigate from the public portion of the portable computing to the private portion of the wireless device when the second user interface component is selected.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor and a memory device that is accessible by the processor. The memory device includes a private portion and a public portion. A data file is received at the wireless device. The wireless device further includes a computer program that is embedded within the memory device. The computer program includes instructions to detect a data file type associated with the data file and instructions to determine whether to store the data file within a private portion of the wireless device or within a public portion of the wireless device at least partially based on the data file type.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor and a memory device that is accessible by the processor. Particularly the memory device includes a private portion and a public portion. A data file is received at the wireless device. Moreover a computer program is embedded within the memory device. The computer program includes instructions to query a user on whether to store the first data file within a private portion of the wireless device or a public portion of the wireless device.

In still yet another embodiment a wireless device is provided and includes a processor and a memory device that is accessible by the processor. In particular the memory device includes a private portion and a public portion. Also a computer program is embedded within the memory device. The computer program includes instructions to establish a wireless connection between the first wireless device and the second wireless device instructions to determine whether the second device is an identified device and instructions to determine whether the second device is a trusted device.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a wireless device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action. The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used in connection with one or more wireless devices.

In one or more embodiments a wireless device may utilize a runtime environment such as a version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers is implemented on a wireless device executing a runtime environment such as the current version of the BREW platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless devices.

As illustrated in the wireless device can be a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a pager or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. In a particular embodiment the pager can be a two way text pager. Further in an alternative embodiment the wireless device can have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The exemplary non limiting system can include any form of a remote module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones with or without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As depicted in the application download server is coupled to a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . The system includes is a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . Further as indicated in the system also includes at least one stored application database that stores software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server the second server and the stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates the system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the system . The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as the wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server are compatible with wireless communication services and can communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In an illustrative embodiment the server contains a server security module that further contains logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the server security module can operate in conjunction with a client security module located on a wireless device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base transceiver stations BTS . The MSC can be connected to the BTS by both a data network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as to wireless telephone by the short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory ROM or RAM EEPROM flash memory or any other memory suitable for computer platforms.

The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the client security module can operate in conjunction with the server security module to provide secure communications. As illustrated in the computer platform can further include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . In an illustrative embodiment the local database is stored within a flash memory cell but it can be stored within any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape or floppy or hard disk.

A wireless device e.g. the wireless telephone can download one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server . Further the wireless device can store the downloaded applications in the local database when not in use and can load stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution by the API when desired by the user. Further communications over the wireless network may be performed in a secure manner at least in part due to the interaction and operation of the client security module and the server security module .

As shown in the memory can be partitioned to include a private portion and a public portion . In a particular embodiment a virtual partition can be used to divide a single memory into the private portion and the public portion . Alternatively the private portion can be physically partitioned from the public portion e.g. the private portion and the public portion can reside on separate memories. As shown in the API can interface with the private portion of the memory or the public portion of the memory .

Referring to a method of configuring a wireless device is shown and commences at block . At block the wireless device is partitioned to include a private portion and a public portion. Next at block a first user interface UI component is provided. The first UI component is linked to the private portion of the wireless device at block . Moving to block a second UI component is provided. At block the second UI component is linked to the public portion of the wireless device. In an illustrative embodiment each UI component is linked to its respective portion of the wireless device such that when a particular UI component is selected e.g. the first UI component the associated portion of the wireless device is accessed e.g. the private portion of the wireless device.

Moving to block one or more download settings are received. In a particular embodiment the one or more download settings can include an indication as to where to store particular data files i.e. in the public portion of the wireless device or the private portion of the wireless device when data files are received at the wireless device. Proceeding to block the download settings are applied to the wireless device and the method then ends at state .

In an illustrative embodiment the data files received by the wireless device can be audio data files video data files still image data files user interface components or other types of data files. Particularly the still image data files can be joint photographic experts group JPEG data files graphics interchange format GIF data files tagged image data file format TWIF data files Adobe Photoshop PSD data files portable networks graphics PNG data files windows metadata file WMF data files or any other types of image data files that can be downloaded to and viewed at the wireless device.

Further the video data files can be moving picture experts group MPEG data files audio video interleave AVI data files Windows media video WMV data files advanced streaming format ASF data files Quicktime MOV data files Real Media RM data files or any other type of video data files that can be downloaded to and viewed at wireless device. Also the audio data files can be MPEG audio layer three MP3 data files waveform audio format WAV data files windows media audio WMA data files OGG data files Monkey s Audio digital data files APE data file VOX data files Real Audio RA data files synthetic music mobile application format MMF data files musical instrument digital interface MID data files phrase format SPF data files Qualcomm PureVoice audio data files QCP or any other sound data files that can be listened to at the wireless device. The audio data files can also be used as ring tones for wireless telephone devices.

Additionally a user interface component data file can include a graphical user interface component such as a graphical icon a virtual button a skin a background a font package or a graphical menu that is linked to a physical user interface component such as a keypad button a keyboard button or a mouse. The user interface component data file can also be a collection of graphical user interface components e.g. an entire graphical user interface. The user interface component data file can also be a graphical user interface component such as a touch screen component that can be selected by touching the display screen of the wireless device with a finger or a stylus. Also the user interface component data file can be an entire touch screen user interface. Further in another illustrative embodiment the user interface component data file can be a voice user interface component such as a voice command linked to a particular function such as dialing a telephone number. Moreover the user interface component data file can be an entire voice user interface having multiple voice commands and corresponding actions.

Referring now to a first method of storing data files at a wireless device is shown and begins at block where the wireless device receives a data file download. At block the wireless device detects a data file type associated with the data file download. Moving to decision step the wireless device determines whether the data file should be stored in a private portion of a memory device or within a public portion of a memory device. The wireless device makes this determination based on the detected data file type and based on one or more user download settings that can be previously defined by a user of the wireless device. For example a user can indicate that JPEG files received at the wireless device are to be stored in the public portion. On the other hand the user can indicate that PDF files are to be stored in the private portion of the wireless device.

At decision step if the wireless device determines that the data file should be stored in the public portion of the wireless device the method moves to block and the wireless device stores the data file in the public portion established therein. On the other hand if the wireless device determines that the data file should be stored in the private portion of the wireless device the method continues to block and the wireless device stores the data file in the private portion therein. As shown in from block and block the method proceeds to decision step and the wireless device determines whether another data file download has been initiated by the user. If another data file download is initiated by the user the method returns to block and continues as described. If another data file download is not initiated by the user the method ends at state .

Referring to a second method of storing data files at a wireless device is shown and starts at block where the wireless device receives a data file download. At block the wireless device queries a user as to where the data file should be stored i.e. in the private portion or public portion of the wireless device. In a particular embodiment the wireless device queries the user via a graphical user interface GUI and the user can response using a physical user interface PUI . For example a message screen can be presented a display of the portable computer device asking where the data file should be stored in the wireless device. The user can answer by pressing a button on a keypad at the wireless device that corresponds to storing the data file in the private portion or by pressing a button that corresponds to storing the data file in the public portion.

In the case of a touch screen user interface a user can be presented with a first selection area at the display that corresponds to storing the data file in the private area and a second selection area that corresponds to storing the data file in the public area. The user can select where to store the data file by touching the first selection area or the second selection area. Additionally in the case of a voice user interface VUI the wireless device can play an audio data file that asks the using whether he or she wants to store the data file in the private portion or the public portion of the wireless device. The user can speak a response to the wireless device indicating where to store the data file.

Proceeding to decision step the wireless device determines whether the data file should be stored in the private portion of the memory device or within the public portion of the memory device based on the use response. If the wireless device detects that the data file should be stored in the public portion of the wireless device the method moves to block and the wireless device stores the data file in the public portion. On the other hand if the wireless device detects that the data file should be stored in the private portion of the wireless device the method continues to block and the wireless device stores the data file in the private portion therein.

As illustrated in from block and block the method proceeds to block and the wireless devices detects the data file type associated with the downloaded data file. Moving to block the wireless device queries the user as to whether the user would like future downloaded data files of the same type to be stored in the private portion or public portion previously selected. At decision step the portable computing detects a response to the query. If the user wants to store all data files of the detected type at the selected private or public portion the method moves to block and the wireless device adjusts the data file download settings so that future data files of the detected type are stored in the same location i.e. the public portion or the public portion. The method then proceeds to decision step .

Returning to decision step if the user does not want all data files of this type to be stored as previously indicated the method proceeds to decision step . At decision step the wireless device determines whether another download has been initiated by the user. If another download is initiated by the user the method returns to block and continues as described above. If another download is not initiated by the user the method ends at state . In an alternative embodiment other factors in addition to file type can be used to determine where to store data files. These other factors for example can include file source time of installation data file developer etc.

Referring to a method of accessing data files previously stored at a wireless device is shown and commences at block . At block the wireless device receives a user interface component selection. In a particular embodiment the user interface component selection is performed by a particular keypress sequence at a keypad of the wireless device in one or more context specific areas of the user interface of the wireless device. Particularly the keypress sequence can be a press and hold sequence or a rapid double press sequence. Moving to decision step the wireless device determines whether the selected user interface component is linked to a private portion of the wireless device or linked to a public portion of the wireless device. If the selected user interface component is linked to the public portion of the wireless device the method proceeds to block and the wireless device provides access to the public portion of the wireless device. As such public files and public application stored within the public portion of the wireless device can be accessed. Public applications for example can include web browsers email programs calculator programs etc. The logic then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if the selected user interface component is linked to the private portion of the wireless device the logic proceeds to block and a user is queried for a password. In a particular embodiment the user is queried for a password via a GUI. Alternatively the user can be queried via a VUI. Moving to block a password is received by the wireless device. Thereafter at decision step the wireless device determines whether the password is correct. If the password is not correct the method moves to block and the wireless device indicates to the user that the password is incorrect . In an illustrative embodiment the wireless device indicates an incorrect password via a GUI or a VUI.

Continuing to block the wireless device queries the user as to whether he or she would like to retry a password. Next at decision step the wireless device detects a response. If the user wants to retry a password the method returns to block and proceeds as described above. If the user does not want to retry a password the method ends at state . Returning to decision step if the password is correct the method proceeds to block and the wireless device provides access to the private portion of the wireless device and any data files or applications stored within the private portion. Private applications for example can include one or more games that the owner of the wireless device does not want others to play e.g. a game with cumulative tasks. The logic then ends at state .

Referring now to a method of communicating between two wireless devices is shown and commences at block wherein a first wireless device establishes a connection with a second wireless device. In a particular embodiment the connection is established via an over the air interface. At decision step the first wireless device determines whether the second wireless device is an identified device. In a particular embodiment the second wireless device may be identified based on the telephone number of the second device. For example if the second wireless device has an unlisted telephone number calls received therefrom will be unidentified. However the second wireless device may be identified when called if the number is stored within the first wireless device. Further the second wireless device is determined to be trusted or not trusted also based on the telephone number of the second device. For example a user can mark particular telephone numbers as trusted in a directory of telephone numbers stored at the first wireless device. Moving to decision step where the second device is not identified the first wireless device determines whether a user interface component corresponding to a private portion or public portion of the first wireless device is selected by a user. If a user interface component is not selected at the first wireless device the method moves to block and the first wireless device blocks access to the public portion and the private portion of the first wireless device. The logic then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if a user interface component is selected at the first wireless device the logic continues to decision step and the first wireless device determines whether the selected user interface component is linked to a public portion or private portion of the first wireless device. If the selected user interface component is linked to a public portion the method moves to block and the first wireless device provides access to the public portion of the first wireless device. The logic then ends at state . At decision step if the selected user interface component is linked to a private portion the method moves to block and the first wireless device provides access to the private portion of the first wireless device. The method then ends at state . In a particular embodiment a password can be required to access the private portion.

Returning to decision step if the second device is identified the method proceeds to decision step and the first wireless device determines whether the second wireless device is trusted. If the second wireless device is not trusted the method moves to block and the first wireless device provides access to the public portion of the first wireless device. Then the method ends at state . At decision step if the second wireless device is trusted the method continues to block and the first wireless device provides access to the private portion of the first wireless device. Thereafter the method ends at state .

Accordingly when a connection is established between the first wireless device and a second wireless device the user of the first wireless device can put the first wireless device in a private mode in which access to the private portion of the first wireless device is provided to the second wireless device. Alternatively the user can put the first wireless device in a public mode in which access to the public portion of the first wireless device is provided to the second wireless device. A user at the second wireless device can browse files with the public portion or private portion of the first wireless device and download files from the public portion or private portion of the first wireless device to the second wireless device.

Referring now to a wireless device is shown and is generally designated . As shown the wireless device includes a display and a keypad . A public soft button and a private soft button can be presented to the user via the display . When the private soft button is selected a private user interface can be presented to the user. The private user interface provides access to the private portion of the wireless device and can include a menu of private files . As such a user can select the private soft button and then access any private files listed in the private files menu .

Further when the public soft button is selected a public user interface can be presented to the user. The public user interface provides access to the public portion of the wireless device and can include a menu of public files . As such a user can select the public soft button and then access any public files listed in the public files menu . In a particular embodiment the user use the keypad to select the soft buttons in order to navigate between the private user interface and the public user interface .

With the configuration of structure disclosed herein the system and method can allow a user to place a wireless device in a private mode in which private data files stored within a private portion of the wireless device can be shared with a trusted user or another trusted wireless device. Further the system and method described herein can allow a user place a wireless device in a public mode in which public data files stored within a public portion of the wireless device can be shared with any other user or wireless device. Also a user can quickly navigate between a public portion of the wireless device and a private portion of the wireless device using a user interface. In an alternative embodiment the system and method can provide multiple grouping types in addition to private and public. For example the groupings can be audience or purpose specific. Further the system and method can provide for multiple privacy levels which would result in multiple groupings.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a wireless device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a wireless device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

