---

title: Method and apparatus for access selection in a multiaccess communications system
abstract: The present invention relates to communications systems comprising multiple access technologies, and more especially it relates to access technology allocation of communications in such communications systems. Particularly, it relates to allocation of a plurality of communication flows to one or more of a plurality of access technologies avail able in the communications system. Access selection based upon stored one or more preference values is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08400914&OS=08400914&RS=08400914
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 08400914
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20060831
---
The present invention relates to communications systems comprising multiple access technologies and more especially it relates to access technology allocation of communications in such communications systems. Particularly it relates to allocation of a plurality of communication flows to one or more of a plurality of access technologies available in the communications system. Such technologies include e.g. wireless access technologies such as radio access technologies and optical access technologies.

Communications comprising a plurality of access technologies have received great interest. Well known examples are dual mode telephones such as DECT GSM phones and GSM WCDMA phones. DECT Digital Enhanced Cordless Telephone is a radio access technology RAT applying Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GMSK combining carriers of frequency division multiplex FDM and 12 slots of time division multiplex TDM for each of uplink and downlink directions applying time division duplex TDD sending uplink and downlink communications separated in time. GSM Global System for Mobile Communications also applies GMSK FDM and TDM but in contrast to DECT applies frequency division duplex FDD sending communications in uplink and downlink directions on different frequencies. WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access also separates uplink and downlink directions in frequency in FDD mode of UMTS applying code division multiple access for multi user access.

Ouyang Congxing Wang Bin Wang Xiaoqi Wei Bing and Huang Yuhong An analysis of radio handover success ratio Huawei Technologies November 2005 Issue 19 analyzes factors that may affect handover success ratio with inter RAT handover. The inter RAT handover includes the steps of

The Measurement step teaches about signal level signal quality and synchronization information of target RAT. In the Judgement step the Measurement results are reported to the source side or source RAT. The source side or the terminal may determine on whether or not to actually handover to the target RAT. In the latter case the terminal will directly establish the connection with the target side wireless system cell. In the former case the source side notifies the target side to prepare the corresponding channel resource and then the source side system issues the handover command to notify the terminal to transfer to the target side wireless system. The authors conclude that network planning will be crucial including settings of proper handover judgment thresholds and handover delay time. A fast fading signal at the target side is a primary reason for inter RAT handover failure.

Eva Gustafsson Annika Jonsson Always Best Connected February 2003 describes the concept of Always Best Connected ABC. The paper discusses user experience and business relationships to broaden third generation cellular systems 3G such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS or CDMA2000. The fundamentals of the ABC concept are that a user shall always be connected through the best available device and access technology at all times. The definition of best the B in ABC depends on a number of different aspects such as personal preferences size and capabilities of the device application requirements security operator or corporate policies available network resources and network coverage. Depending on the applications and user preferences a user can be connected over one access at a time or over multiple accesses in parallel. The ABC concept holds for virtually all types of access technologies including those that are yet to come. In its simplest form an ABC service provides the user with capabilities to access services of different types of network technologies without mobility support. Gustafsson and Jonsson describe example scenarios of a user named Hubert. In one scenario Hubert has a PDA Personal Digital Assistant and a laptop both of which have built in 3G capabilities. In another scenario the laptop and the PDA are part of Hubert s personal area network PAN communicating over short range radio technology e.g. Bluetooth. In the example the PAN also includes Hubert s 3G mobile phone. An ABC terminal may be inclusive or exclusive of access devices. In the former case the terminal performs access discovery periodically and at startup to find out the best available access technology. In the latter case the access discovery is an internal functionality of the device as long as there is only one device. When there is a plurality of devices including access devices connected in a PAN the ABC terminal needs to find out which access devices are available in the PAN. Key issues for providing ABC access discovery for a PAN are 

Access selection refers to the process of deciding over which access network to connect at any point in time. Gustafsson and Jonsson identify three parts of such a process 

When selecting access network a number of different aspects are considered such as ABC user preferences service provider preferences available bandwidth cost and operator device capabilities and application requirements. An ABC terminal needs a stored profile or priority list or default setting for choosing access network at startup or reconnection. Otherwise it cannot benefit from any network based functionality. A benefit of network based support for access selection or network based access selection is that an ABC service provider could transfer network specific information to the terminal. Network based access selection allows for load balancing and may reduce signaling over the radio interface if the selection process requires repeated inquiries to databases in the network. Network based support for access selection makes it possible to perform radio resource efficient selection in order to maximize total system throughput.

Bo Xing and Nalini Venkatasubramanian Volume 00 2005 Jul. 17 21 2005 pp. 56 64 addresses the problem of dynamic access selection the concept of ABC enabling a new paradigm in fourth generation mobile communication 4G systems. The authors model the problem of multi constraint dynamic access selection MCDAS as a variant of bin packing problem. A series of approximation algorithms derived from the First Fit Decreasing FFD algorithm are proposed for finding near optimal solutions in access selection comprising various access technologies such as Wi Fi Bluetooth GPRS and UMTS simultaneously available to mobile devices.

The optimizations incorporate the ability to adapt to varying load conditions as well as dynamic network parameter changes caused by device mobility. The proposed algorithms are compared to a quasi optimal off line solution obtained assuming full knowledge of all traffic flows for a set of inputs.

Access preference of a flow describes which access network is preferred by a traffic flow and to which extent. A power consumption cost model calculates the power consumption of a particular flow f using a particular access network A. A dissatisfaction value of each traffic flow assignment describes the degree to which the assignment does not match the flow s access preference.

A bin packing problem packing items into smallest number of bins of given maximum size is called on line if every item is packed without information on subsequent items while an off line problem allows decisions to be made with full knowledge of all items.

FFD is a well known algorithm for off line packing items in bins of given maximum size packing the largest item into the first bin which has enough remaining room when the bins are ordered in sequence of decreasing fill level increasing remaining room .

G. P. Koudouridis P. Karlsson J. Lundsj A. Bria M. Berg L. Jorguseski M. Meago R. Ag ero J. Sachs. R. Karimi IST EVEREST Workshop Barcelona Spain November 2005 illustrates multi radio access MRA for addressing the dynamics of ambient networks ANs. Accessing any network public or private possibly without subscription through instant establishment of inter network agreements is one of the strategic objectives of The Ambient Networks project an integrated project within The EU 16Framework Program. Koudouridis et al. provide an overview of evaluation studies for multi radio access selection MRAS in terms of efficient radio resource utilization.

For radio access selection Koudouridis et al. propose a hierarchical distribution of functionality between multi radio resource management MRRM and generic link layer GLL where the GLL dynamically handles mapping of data flows to radio accesses RAs selected by MRRM. The criteria used for selection of access include radio link characteristics cell load and capacity RAT preferences terminal capabilities terminal velocity service type and required QoS. Multi radio transmission diversity MRTD essentially refers to system capability of selecting on a relatively fine time scale among plural radio accesses for transmission of user data. Ultimately MRTD selects radio access on a per packet basis.

None of the cited documents above discloses a method and system of access selection with flow bundling constraints the access selection determining and including one or more metrics in an access preference list of a Communications Flow Correlation Module.

A communication flow is a stream of communicated information. When there is a plurality of concurrent such streams they are generally referred to as flows or communication flows. Prior art solutions of access selection are either substantially simplified and restricted to individual communication flows or arrive at excessive processing requirements when considering a plurality of communication flows seeking global optimization. The invention identifies a need for both considering a plurality of communication flows when allocating the flows to one or more access technologies and a need for reduced processing requirements and adaptations to existing application program interfaces APIs when facing the problems of implementing multi access systems.

It is consequently an object of preferred embodiments of the invention to provide a method and system for sequential access selection.

It is also an object of preferred embodiments of the invention to provide a method and system for access selection adapted for coordinated allocation of communication flows.

A further object of embodiments of the invention is to facilitate fast allocation of communication flows associated with particular requirements for appropriate access selection.

Finally it is an object of embodiments of the invention to enable adaptation to changing conditions and requirements in a multi access communications environment.

These objects are met by a method and system of access technology selection allocating a plurality of communication flows to one or more of a plurality of access technologies included for communications in a communications system by means of stored allocation preference values.

Preferred embodiments of the invention by way of examples are described with reference to the accompanying drawings below.

In the following description for purpose of explanation specific details are set forth such as particular architectures interfaces techniques etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced in other embodiments that depart from these specific details.

In some instances detailed descriptions of well known devices circuits and methods are omitted so as not to obscure the description of the present invention with unnecessary detail. All statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

The invention discloses access selection in a communications system wherein a user terminal or PAN has two or more communications flows and there are two or more access technologies available.

Interdependencies tend to cause problem when selecting accesses technologies for individual flows. A selection decision is likely to affect other future or past access selections.

The sample situations illustrate the need for ranking of access selection preferences in relation to various access technologies or communication flows. According to the invention interdependencies between access selection decisions for individual communication flows are expressed as constraints or preferences for access selection decisions that relate to groups or bundles of communication flows.

The access selection decisions of the various flows of a group or bundle of flows are often separated in time and cannot be considered simultaneously in order not to introduce excessive communication delay. User communication flows start and stop more or less randomly from a system perspective and as they do so access re selection decisions need be made. To improve established access selection allocations it is advantageous to evaluate assignments from a global perspective considering many if not all established access selection decisions concerning flow bundles of a particular user terminal or PAN and possibly also all user terminals PANs. The considerable time required for a perfect access selection allocation opts for improvements to render the access selection feasible for real time applications.

A first example embodiment of the invention provides for a method and system for access selection of communications flows such that decisions can be made efficiently for individual flows. This is a achieved by reflecting dependencies between access selection decisions through preference values of communication flows in relation to various bundles of communication flows. Each preference value corresponds to a utility value for a particular communication flow indicating the preference of the allocation in relation to other allocations to the particular one or more bundles which the preference value refers to.

Allocation of communication flow fto access technology Aalso affects a third access technology Aand affects another communication flow fallocated to A. This impact is included in the memory represented by the table as a related flow in a flow bundle. By inclusion of related flows in bundles as illustrated in the example in a plurality of flows in a flow bundle can be considered.

The stored preference values such as the one illustrated in the table of consequently comprises a number of entries. According to the first example embodiment as illustrated in there is one entry for each access technology that is available for assignment of future communication flows. According to example embodiments described in further detail below more than one entry for each access technology is not excluded.

If an allocation selection decision is such that there is still a preference of using the allocated access technology also for future allocations of communication flows the preference value is positive. The greater the positive value the greater is the preference.

If an allocation selection decision is such that it has a negative impact on future allocations to the particular access technology for future allocations of communication flows the preference value is negative. The greater the magnitude of the negative value the greater is the adverse effect of selecting the access technology for future communication flows.

A zero preference value indicates a neutral preference to allocating future communication flows to the particular access technology.

According to the first example embodiment of the invention the preference values are used as input to access selection functionality equipment ASF included in or connected to a user terminal or PAN. In one example implementation it is included in a radio access network. In another example implementation it is included in a control unit of a communications system. The ASF is schematically illustrated in .

Preference values are input to access selection functionality equipment . A flow correlation module for each user terminal or PAN preferably represents preference values of access selection decisions in a lookup table temporarily stored in memory connected to a processing entity of the access selection functionality equipment . The values are optionally combined with other access selection criteria . The access selection functionality equipment outputs a selection decision for each of the flows to be allocated to at least one access technology 

When an access selection decision is requested for a second flow f the stored preference values similar to those in the table of are consulted. When a candidate access technology e.g. access technology A is evaluated by the ASF the corresponding preference value in the list is used. If the candidate access technology is actually allocated to the flow f the flow bundle is augmented to include the allocated flow f. When a flow is terminated and ends the flow is also removed from the flow bundle of the access technology. If the flow bundle set is empty the entry for the access technology is preferably removed from memory. The ASF equipment is preferably applied also for example embodiments of the invention described below.

In a second example embodiment the entries in memory comprise additional information indicators. Non exclusive examples of such information indicators are whether the various flows are directed from or towards the user terminal or PAN i.e. whether they are in uplink or downlink direction respectively or whether the various communication flows require a particular minimum bit rate or are best effort communication flows.

Also for the second example embodiment the preference values in memory are considered when allocating a communication flow to an access technology. In the second example embodiment however the additional information indicators are also consulted for a match to the corresponding prerequisites of the flow to be allocated. The updating of the set of flows that are affected by an access technology being allocated to a future allocation of one or more communication flows is similar to the updating described for the first example embodiment and . However since there are one or more information indicators there is typically more than one entry for at least some access technology. There may still be situations though when there are only single occurrences of included one or more access technologies.

In the table representation of is extended by two columns representing information qualifiers . The figure illustrate an example allocation where access technology A was selected for downlink flow f the access technology providing a bi directional bit rate of at least 64 kbit s and the flow fbeing in downlink direction. Example entry number of reflects that it is advantageous to allocate future flows in downlink direction requiring at most 64 kbit s to access technology A. Also with reference to the example situation illustrated in interference between access technologies Aand Aare supposed to be known to interfere. Consequently in entry number access technology Ais indicated as being related to the communication flow f.

For communication flows fand faccess technology Ahas been selected for best effort communication flows in downlink direction. Due to the remaining positive preference value also future communication flows in uplink direction for best effort are likely to be allocated to access technology A.

An application programming interface API is the interface that a computer system library or application provides in order to allow requests for services to be made of it by other computer programs and or to allow data to be exchanged between them. Existing APIs for applications to request communication flow setup are typically written such that one flow is set up at a time. When a plurality of communication flows are set up this is made by sequentially setting up the individual communication flows. When an application requires a plurality of communication flows this imposes additional challenges when it comes to access technology selection e.g. when the existing application including the API is used in a new ABC environment.

The invention identifies that implementation and performance gains are achieved by a particular method and system of ordering of the communication flows.

According to a third example embodiment of the invention the communication flows of a multi flow session are setup and ordered according to one or more predefined criteria for access technology selection. When sequentially ordered according to the one or more predefined criteria the communication flows are preferably allocated to the various access technologies allocating the flows with greatest requirements e.g. greatest required bit rate first. As a non exclusive example the communication flows are ordered according to bit rate requirements. Another non exclusive example ordering criterion is direction requirement uplink downlink . A further non exclusive criterion for ordering is candidate preference values as will be described in detail below in relation to a fourth and fifth example embodiment of the invention.

According to a fourth example embodiment of the invention the access technology allocation process is divided into two phases.

The flows providing the greatest preference value increases are preferably allocated first thereby improving efficiency of access technology utilization.

According to a fifth example embodiment of the invention the preliminary candidate allocation of flows as described in relation to the fourth example embodiment is extended and executed for bundles of flows. After a first communication flow of the bundle has been preliminarily allocated as described for the fourth example embodiment above the process is repeated for the second communication flow of the bundle. Consequently the required memory capacity for storage of preference values increases exponentially with the number of flows. In a typical and interesting situation however the number of flows of interest is two limiting the memory requirement to the square of the memory capacity required for the fourth example embodiment. The required memory capacity could generally be halved due to symmetries in allocation preference values. The greatest preference value increase is then unless redundant utilizing symmetries stored for each pair of flows. The stored preference values are then ordered according to their sizes for allocation of access technology as described for the fourth example embodiment.

The example embodiments described above have been described in relation to a single user terminal or PAN. The advantages achieved from the preference values are further explored in a method and system considering a plurality of user terminals and PANs for globally efficient access technology allocation thereby substantially reducing the complexity of access technology selection described in prior art cited above. The complexity reduction would render global or at least local access selection for a limited number of user terminals and PANs feasible and would also allow regular access reselection with available processing capacity of today.

A person skilled in the art readily understands that the receiver and transmitter properties of e.g. a user equipment are general in nature. The use of concepts such as access selection functionality equipment ASF equipment application program interfaces APIs or radio access technology PAT within this patent application is not intended to limit the invention only to devices associated with these acronyms. It concerns all devices operating correspondingly or being obvious to adapt thereto by a person skilled in the art in relation to the invention.

The invention is not intended to be limited only to the embodiments described in detail above. Changes and modifications may be made without departing from the invention. It covers all modifications within the scope of the following claims.

