---

title: Non-contact thermo-elastic property measurement and imaging system for quantitative nondestructive evaluation of materials
abstract: A non-contact thermo-elastic property measurement and imaging system and method thereof are described. Acoustic energy is incident on a first surface of a specimen under test. The acoustic energy is converted partially into heat by the specimen, causing a slight increase in the temperature in a region of interaction. The temperature increase is imaged using a high sensitivity infrared camera. Presence of defects (surface and subsurface) in the material modifies the distribution of temperature. An image of temperature distribution can be used for nondestructive testing and evaluation of materials. The temperature change in the specimen caused by acoustic excitation is related to thermal and elastic properties of the material. A measurement of the change in the temperature as a function of the amplitude of incident excitation can be used for direct measurement of thermo-elastic property of the specimen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07716987&OS=07716987&RS=07716987
owner: University of Dayton
number: 07716987
owner_city: Dayton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060731
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by and for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or thereto.

This invention relates generally to a system and method for the detection of defects in a material and more particularly to a non contact thermo elastic property measurement and imaging system for quantitative nondestructive evaluation of materials.

Varieties of organic composites are in use for their superior strength and low density compared to metallic structures. These organic composites consist of fibers embedded in polymer matrices. Many layers are superposed on each other to obtain high strength and superior properties. For several decades the aerospace industries have taken the advantage of superior physical properties and weight of the composite materials. Generally composites of carbon fibers with polymer matrix are used in aerospace applications. While the polymer composites provide excellent strength weight ratio their strength degrades dramatically when exposed to heat. On an aircraft this could happen due to fire accidents or accidental exposure to excessive heat during repair or due to heat generation due to lightening strike.

Several experimental techniques have been used to evaluate the heat damage in composites. Some of these techniques are nondestructive in nature and some are destructive. While destructive techniques essentially attempt to measure the loss of mechanical strength in the composite nondestructive evaluation NDE techniques attempt to relate the measured property to the loss of strength. In particular NDE techniques provide information about the elastic modulus of the degraded material. However significant change in the elastic modulus occurs only when gross damage occurs in the material. Accordingly prior art NDE techniques are not sensitive to detecting incipient damage in composites which is responsible for the loss of physical or mechanical properties without gross changes in structure such as cracking blistering or delamination.

For example NDE of materials based on acoustic wave propagation depends on the interaction of acoustic waves with defects in the material. In particular prior art acoustic based NDE methods use the returned acoustic energy to measure elastic properties of materials and to identify defect locations in the material based on the changes in the elastic properties caused by presence of the defects. In such prior art acoustic wave propagation systems for the best NDE testing results a piezoelectric transducer is either placed in contact with the material or both the transducer and material to be tested are immersed in water in order to launch sufficient acoustic wave energy into the material.

Another non contact NDE method is infrared IR thermography. IR thermography is used to detect and image changes in the thermal property of materials. In this prior art method a heat pulse is incident on the surface of the material to be tested. The heat diffuses into the material uniformly causing gradual temperature changes. An IR camera is used to image the changes in the temperature. IR images are acquired as a function of time from the initial excitation of the heat pulse. Presence of defects in the material alters the distribution of temperature. Analysis of the IR images can be used to detect and locate the defects in the material. However it has been observed that significant changes in thermal properties occur only when the composite has undergone gross damage. Changes in thermal properties during early stages of heat damage in composites are quite small and hence the IR thermography is not a sensitive method.

Another NDE technique is the thermo elastic measurements. This technique takes the advantage of the slight reduction of temperature of the material when subjected to tension while a small increase in temperature is observed when subjected to compressive stress. The thermo elastic technique is used in evaluation of the stress distribution under load in materials and components. The temperature distribution is most often measured using a high sensitivity infrared camera. Following similar arguments and instead of using mechanical loading to create a distribution of temperature high amplitude acoustic wave can be used. The temperature distribution can be visualized using IR camera.

Another NDE technique combines acoustic excitation and IR thermography to evaluate the heat damage in composite materials. In this technique an ultrasonic horn is brought into contact with the composite and the structure is excited. The high amplitude vibration caused by the horn create vibrations of different modes in the specimen. In the neighborhood of a defect crack or delamination the modes of vibration create extra heat due to friction between the two faces of the crack or other irreversible thermo elastic effects. Temperature changes due to vibrations are captured using a high sensitivity IR camera. However this contact technique of exciting the structure with high amplitude ultrasonic waves raises concerns about the damage that could be introduced due to excitation process via direct contact between the composite and the acoustic horn. The acoustic horn in contact when excited operates like a hammer and may cause damage to the specimen. In addition the relation between the temperature changes and the amount of heat damage is complicated by excitation of many different modes of vibration in the structure due to direct contact between the horn and specimen. This methodology is known in the literature by different names as vibro thermography thermo sonics sonic IR etc.

Accordingly it is to be appreciated that while many NDE techniques have been used in the past for evaluation of heat damage in composites most of them have limited success and capable of revealing gross damage only.

It is against the above backgrounds that the present invention provides a non contact method of acoustic excitation of a material in order to overcome concerns related to direct contact. In particular the present invention provides a non contact thermo elastic property measurement and imaging system for quantitative nondestructive evaluation of materials. The testing and evaluation of a material by the system is based on measuring and imaging heat generation and increase of temperature due to interaction of acoustic waves with the material.

In one embodiment a non contact thermo elastic imaging system for detecting defects in a structure is disclosed. The system comprises a sound source directing at least one pulse of a sound signal at a first energy level at the structure for a predetermined period of time. A thermal camera is directed towards the structure and generating thermal images of the structure when the sound source emits the at least one pulse of the sound signal. The system includes a controller coupled to the sound source and the thermal camera. The controller provides timing signals therebetween and increases energy levels of subsequent pulses the sound pulses.

In another embodiment a non contact thermo elastic imaging system for detecting defects in a structure is disclosed. The system comprises a sound source providing an ultrasonic horn. A thermal imaging camera is directed towards the structure and generating thermal images of the structure. A controller is electrically coupled to the sound source and the camera. The controller causes the sound source to transmit a series of sound pulses of increasing intensity into the structure separated by a predetermined time period at a predetermined frequency. The controller also causes the camera to generate sequential images of the structure wherein vibrational energy from the pulses causes the defects in the structure to heat up and be visible in the images generated by the camera.

In another embodiment a non contact thermo elastic method of detecting defects in a structure is disclosed. The method comprises providing a sound source having an acoustic horn having a tip placed a distance from the structure. The method includes exciting the horn with power varying from 0 to 100 in incrementing steps and emitting a sound signal from the tip at the structure to heat the defects. The method also includes generating a sequence of thermal images of the structure before during and after the emission of the sound signal.

Although not limited to the following are some noted advantages of the present invention. The concept of relating the thermo elastic parameter to heat damage and its measurements are based on thermodynamics of materials. The instrumentation provides a non contact nondestructive technique to detect image and quantitatively measure the heat damage in organic matrix composites.

Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and the appended claims when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The following description of the embodiments of the invention directed to a non contact nondestructive evaluation system and method thereof for testing and evaluation of a material based on measuring and imaging heat generation and increase of temperature due to interaction of acoustic waves with the material is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the invention or its applications or uses.

The basic principles of the methodology and the block diagram of a non contact thermo elastic property measurement and imaging system are shown in according to an embodiment of the present invention. The system is being used to detect defects such as cracks corrosion delaminations disbonds etc. in a specimen . The specimen is intended to represent any structural component or material such as an aircraft skin turbine blades structural welds that may include these types of defects. It is stressed that the specimen does not need to be metal but can be other materials organic and inorganic such as polymers ceramics composites etc.

The system includes a computer a computer display an infrared camera a vibrator an ultrasonic horn and a signal generator . The signal generator generates and provides a high power radio frequency to excite the vibrator . The vibrator may be a piezoelectric transducer or a magnetostrictive transducer and may be coupled directly to the ultrasonic horn as shown in or by means of a waveguide not illustrated . The waveguide may have any desired input output mechanical excitation ratio although ratios of 1 1 and 1 1.5 are typical for many applications. The vibrator generates sonic or ultrasonic energy within a certain frequency band. The energy typically will have a frequency of from about 10 kHz to about 40 kHz although other frequencies are contemplated as well. It is stressed that the frequencies and pulse time periods being described herein are by way of non limiting examples in that different ultrasonic frequencies pulse times input power etc. will vary from system to system and specimen being tested.

In one embodiment the ultrasonic horn is of a design that resonates at a frequency of 20 kHz. The horn may be provided with a tapered wall portion and a tip which may be cylindrical however other configurations are contemplated as well. In the illustrated embodiment the tip is fixed but in other embodiments may be removable. The tapered wall portion may be frustoconical however other configurations are contemplated as well such as for example elliptical conical bi conic and parabolic. In some embodiments of the present invention the horn may be composed partially or entirely of a titanium material. In one embodiment the tapered wall portion of the horn is a parabolic frustum as shown by and has a length of 1.625 inches about 42 mm which is equal to half of the resonating wavelength and a diameter of 1.5 inch about 38 mm . The diameter of a first end of the horn adjacent the vibrator is 1.5 inch about 38 mm . A second end of the horn adjacent the tip is about 0.5 inch about 13 mm in diameter. The tapered wall portion is approximately 1.625 inch about 42 mm in length and the tip is about 1.625 inch about 42 mm in length. The end diameter of tip is 0.5 inch about 13 mm .

When excited the vibrator causes the horn to vibrate along a mechanical excitation axis . At a free end of the tip of the horn the displacement about axis is quite large which further amplifies the acoustic waves generated by the vibrator . In particular the horn acts as an exponential mechanical amplifier wherein in one embodiment the displacement at the free end of the tip is in the range of 6 to 100 microns.

The specimen is positioned a distance from the free end of the tip which can be adjusted. Acoustic energy symbolized by force line is depicted emanating from the tip propagating through the air and impinging on a first side of the specimen . A part of the incident acoustic energy is reflected by the specimen and a small portion is transmitted into the specimen. As will be explained in a later section a part of the transmitted acoustic energy is converted into heat via thermo elasticity thereby producing localized increases in temperature of the specimen . Although the incident angle of the acoustic energy from the horn is shown as substantially perpendicular about 90 degrees to the surface of the first side of the specimen other angles of incident may be used.

In the illustrated embodiment on a second side of the sample a lens of the camera is centered on the same axis of the horn e.g. axis . The infra red camera is provided and spaced from the second side of the specimen and generates images of the second side of the specimen in association with the localized increases in temperature excitations of the specimen . The camera can be spaced from the specimen any suitable distance to provide images of as much of the specimen as desired in a single image. In other embodiments the acoustic energy from horn and the image generated by the camera can be provided at the same side of the specimen . The camera can be any camera suitable for the purposes described herein such as the Merlin MWIR camera available from FLIR Systems. In one embodiment the camera senses infrared emissions that are symbolized by emission lines in the 3 to 5 micron wavelength range and generates images at 60 frames per second. The camera includes a focal plane array having an array of 320 by 256 pixels to generate the resolution desirable. In one embodiment the second side of the specimen may be doctored to provide better contrast for infrared imaging such as being painted black.

In use the computer provides timing between the vibrator and the camera . The computer can be any computer programmable microprocessor controller or application specific integrated circuit ASIC suitable for the purposes described herein. When the detection process is initiated the computer causes the camera to begin taking sequential images of the specimen at a predetermined rate. Once the sequence of images begins the computer sends a signal to the signal generator to send a frequency pulse of a predetermined period to the vibrator such that the horn generates the acoustic energy . After the end of the pulse the computer instructs the camera to stop taking images. The images generated by the camera are sent to the computer display or any other monitor that displays the images taken of the specimen . An example of such an image is depicted by . The images can be stored on the computer and sent via a network connected wired or wireless to the computer to an external device such as a server another computer a database or other memory device to be viewed at another time or location if desirable.

The acoustic energy applied to the specimen causes faces of the defects and cracks in the specimen to rub against each other and create heat. As illustrated by this heat appears as bright spots in the images generated by the camera thereby showing the defects and or cracks. The temperature generation and distribution in the material is affected by presence of cracks and defects. The acoustic energy is effective to heat cracks or defects in the specimen and thus it is possible to image the cracks and defects by analyzing the captured temperature images.

The change in the temperature in the material due to a longitudinal acoustic wave excitation can be expressed by Equation 1 .

In a nondestructive evaluation the temperature change is imaged at known acoustic excitation amplitude. The change in the temperature is proportional to the combined thermal and C and elastic V properties of the material Equation 1 . Although the image is purely a temperature change the contrast variation is related to both thermal and elastic properties of the material. The image is thus useful for non contact and nondestructive testing and evaluation of the specimen .

Experiments using the present invention were conducted in two stages. In the first stage the amplitude of displacement of the acoustic horn as a function of input power to the transducer was measured using a non contact optical probe. The first stage provided a calibration procedure for the input acoustic amplitude impinging on the specimen . The specimen used to establish the technique was a composite panel subjected to excessive heat exposure to different amount of time at several locations on the panel. The specimen had a length of 10.25 inch 260 mm a width of 7 inch 178 mm and a thickness of 0.085 inch 2 mm . It is to be appreciated that the thickness of the material has significant effect on temperature change. Larger the thickness the strain produced in the material is small hence temperature change is also small.

The specimen was placed in front of the free end of the acoustic horn at a fixed distance of 0.015 inch 0.381 mm . It is to be appreciated that an increase in the distance between the sample and the acoustic source will reduce the acoustic amplitude. This also results in reduced temperature change.

The acoustic horn was excited with power varying from 0 to 100 in steps of 20 increments. This series of incremental power steps provided the acoustic energy with a varying intensity I units of energy per unit area per unit time . A sinusoidal tone burst signal of 20 kHz from the signal generator was used to excite the transducer and generate a pulse of ultrasonic energy having a substantially constant amplitude at a frequency of about 20 kHz for a period of time of about 0.5 of a second. is a plot of acoustic horn displacement versus input power to the transducer.

In the second stage the camera was placed on the other side of the specimen at a distance of 6 inch 152 mm and focused on a region of the specimen at which the pulse of acoustic energy impinged e.g. along axis . When the acoustic horn was excited with each increment of power the camera captured the temperature rise in the region. The average temperature increase was measured for each excitation increment.

It is to be appreciated that while the non contact NDE is an important application the technique is useful in measurement of thermo elastic property of the material. Generally to measure the thermo elastic property the thermal and the elastic properties are measured independently and then combined. The system and method described in the present invention allows direct measurement of the thermo elastic property of the material. The system and method are very generic and applicable to variety of materials such as metals ceramics polymers and composites. The efficiency of the conversion the acoustic energy into heat depends on both thermal and elastic properties of the material. It should be noted that the temperature increase due to acoustic wave interaction in polymeric materials is at least order of magnitude larger than metals. Thus the method according to the present invention appears to be particularly suitable to polymer and polymer composites testing.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying drawings and claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

