---

title: Apparatus and methods for exchanging location-based information
abstract: The disclosed embodiments provide apparatus and methods for exchanging location-based information between a wireless communications device and a computer system. In one embodiment, the location-based information may include a layout of a physical location corresponding to a geographic position associated with the wireless communications device. In another embodiment, the location-based information may include directions from the geographic position, through the layout, to an item location associated with an item in the physical location. Additional disclosed embodiments relate to the wireless communications device, presentation of the location-based information on the wireless communications device, and associated computer-readable media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020532&OS=09020532&RS=09020532
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09020532
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060213
---
The disclosed embodiments relate to wireless communications systems and more particularly to systems and methods for providing physical location and or item location information to a wireless communications device.

Wireless communications devices such as mobile phones pagers handheld computers etc. are becoming increasingly popular for both business and personal use. One advantage of such devices is their wireless aspect allowing them to be utilized whenever and wherever a user desires. As such a user may carry a wireless communications device with them as they travel. Some wireless devices such as GPS type devices or communications devices wirelessly connected to a map server on the Internet provide maps and travel directions to the user. These maps and travel directions however are typically limited to roads and directions through the roads or geographic locations and to physical locations such as hotels restaurants stores etc. on the roads. Upon arriving at a physical location however users who are unfamiliar with the physical location typically must consult hard copy building store maps information booths or personnel within the physical location to find their way around. A further complication is that such hard copy building store maps information booths and personnel often do not disclose or know the location of particular items within the physical location.

Thus systems and methods for providing details of a physical location and an item location to a wireless communications device are desired.

The disclosed embodiments provide apparatus and methods for communicating map information including at least one of a layout of a physical location and an identification of an item location between a mapping module of a computer system and a wireless communications device. Such a communication may be based on the geographic position of the wireless communications device.

In one embodiment for example a location based method of communicating information comprises receiving a geographic position associated with a wireless communications device and generating map information for receipt by the wireless communications device the map information including physical location information including a layout of a physical location corresponding to the geographic position. In an alternate embodiment a computer readable medium for communicating location based information comprises at least one sequence of instructions wherein execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform the above defined steps.

In another embodiment a method of communicating a location of an item comprises receiving a geographic position of a wireless communications device receiving an item identification of the item generating map information including a layout of a physical location corresponding to the geographic position of the wireless communications device and directions from the geographic position to an item location within the physical location and transmitting the map information to the wireless communications device. In an alternate embodiment a computer readable medium for communicating location based information comprises at least one sequence of instructions wherein execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform the above defined steps.

In a further embodiment an apparatus for wirelessly communicating location based information comprises a map generator for generating map information for receipt by the wireless communications device and including physical location information having a layout of a physical location corresponding to a geographic position associated with a wireless communications device.

In still another embodiment an apparatus for communicating a location of an item comprises a map generator operable to receive a geographic position associated with a wireless communications device wherein the map generator is further operable to generate map information including a layout of a physical location corresponding to the geographic position of the wireless communications device. The apparatus also includes a route generator operable to receive an item identification of the item wherein the route generator is further operable to generate directions from the geographic position to an item location within the physical location wherein the item location corresponds to the item. Further the map generator is operable to incorporate the directions and the item location into the map information and transmit the map information for receipt by the wireless communications device.

In still another embodiment a wireless communications device comprises a processor a display coupled to the processor and operable to display a user interface responsive to the processor and a memory coupled to the processor and having instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to present the user interface on the display wherein the user interface includes a layout of a physical location corresponding to a geographic position associated with the wireless communications device.

In another embodiment a method of presenting location based information on a wireless communications device comprises transmitting a geographic position associated with the wireless communications device receiving map information including a layout of a physical location corresponding to the geographic position and presenting a user interface on a display of the wireless communications device where the user interface includes map information. In an alternate embodiment a computer readable medium for presenting location based information comprises at least one sequence of instructions wherein execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform the above defined steps.

In yet another embodiment a method of assisting a user in shopping comprises receiving a geographic position associated with a wireless communications device associated with the user receiving a plurality of item identifications associated with items of interest to the user and generating map information for receipt by and presentation on the wireless communications device. The map information has physical location information including a layout of a physical location corresponding to the geographic position and a plurality of item locations corresponding to the plurality of item identifications where each of the plurality of item locations comprises a position of the respective item within the layout.

Additional advantages of the disclosed embodiments are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part are obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The advantages of the disclosed embodiments may also be realized and attained by the means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The described embodiments provide a wireless communications device and a location apparatus that enable a user of the device among other things to obtain physical location information and obtain item information and locate items within the physical location. For example a user may rely on these apparatus and methods to find a store in an unfamiliar mall or to find one or more items on their shopping list from within a store. Additionally a user may turn to such apparatus and methods for guidance through a museum or through a maze of exhibitors at an exhibition. It should be understood that these examples are not to be construed as limiting and the many other details and features of the devices and methods associated with the location apparatus are described below.

Referring to one embodiment of a locating system includes a computer system having a map generator for transmitting map information such as a layout of a physical location to a wireless communications device WCD for example based on a geographic position of the WCD. Additionally for example in order to aid a user of WCD in finding one or more items located within physical location map generator may further generate and transmit item information such as an item location associated with and or superimposed on layout . Further computer system may include a route generator for transmitting route information such as directions from geographic position to one or more item locations to WCD . WCD may include an output mechanism such as a display for presenting to the user a user interface that includes a representation of layout of physical location as well as one or more item locations and or directions . For example system provides a user of WCD the ability to find a store in a mall and or find merchandise in a store based on their geographic position by downloading the associated layout and item location information from computer system . Thus system enables a user of WCD to quickly and easily navigate through an unfamiliar building and or find one or more desired items within the building.

Additionally system includes a communications network that provides a wireless communications portal enabling WCD to communicate with other wireless devices and computer systems across the communications network. Similarly communications network may additionally provide communications access to computer system such as may be desired by other computer systems associated with communications network . For instance in one embodiment remote computer system such as a remotely located desktop computer may be utilized by a user to communicate with computer system and or WCD . For example a user may input a list of items into remote computer system which may then be downloaded to WCD through communications network . Additionally remote computer system may be utilized to communicate with computer system to identify a desired physical location and or item s and to initiate downloading of the associated mapping routing and item information from computer system to WCD via communications network .

In one embodiment computer system may include at least one of a server a personal computer a mini mainframe a workstation any other type of computing device and any combination thereof operable to execute the instructions and perform the functions associated with system . Computer system may be located at one or more places within physical location such as in interconnected but dispersed modules in close proximity to geographic position of WCD to thereby enable short range communications and WCD position determination. Alternately computer system may be located remotely from physical location and may communicate with WCD through communications network . In another alternative computer system may include some modules dispersed locally within physical location and at least one module located remotely from but in communication with the other modules such as across communications network .

Referring specifically to one embodiment of computer system includes a variety of modules and associated information associated with map generation position determination route determination and other information exchange capabilities of system . Each of the modules discussed below includes any combination of mechanisms media and executable instructions resulting in a system operable to process and or store the associated information relating to system as is discussed below. For example computer system may include a mapping module having map information for generating information such as layout of physical location and directions to item location associated with geographic position of WCD . Map information may include a geographic map and all or some portion of physical location information referenced to the geographic map. Physical location information may include audio textual and or graphical details relating to at least one physical location which may include any physical structure having a physical feature and including at least one associated item location or geographic position within physical location where an item may be found. For example physical location may include at least one of a set of buildings or structures a building or some portion of the building e.g. a floor section or department a wall an aisle a shelf a bin a stand a rack a drawer a booth and any combination thereof. In particular physical location information may include a physical location identification such as a name number character graphic audio signature an audio message and or narration any combination thereof and any other user or computer recognizable identifier associated with a given physical location . Additionally physical location information may include a physical location description such as words graphics audio information any combination thereof and any other type of information utilizable to convey to a user relevant details relating to a given physical location. Further physical location information also includes at least one layout corresponding to the given physical location. Layout includes a representation of the physical relationship such as the relative positioning between the various physical features associated with a given physical location. Still further physical location information may include location specific information such as any other information related to a given physical location. For example location specific information may include a special audio and or text message a list of sales and or sale items directions instructions and rebates associated with a given physical location.

Additionally map information may further include all or some portion of item information which includes audio textual and or graphical details relating to at least one item such as a product and or information available at a certain position within a given physical location . Further the representation of item information may change after the user of WCD visits the associated item location thereby enabling the user to keep track of where they have been and where they need to go in cases where the user is interested in multiple items within a single physical location. Suitable examples of item include a product or piece of merchandise such as a piece of hardware in hardware store a particular foodstuff in a grocery store a toy in a toy store etc. a display such as a piece in a museum a presentation board or advertisement at a conference etc. a physical feature such as natural formation or man made structure in a park a building in a set of buildings a store in a mall a section of a store etc. a lecture hall on a college campus a conference room in a building and any combination thereof. In particular item information includes item location as discussed above. Further item information may include an item identification such as a name number character graphic audio signature stockkeeping unit SKU number barcode model number universal product code UPC any combination thereof and any other user or computer recognizable identifier associated with a given item. Additionally item information may include an item description such as words graphics audio information a narration any combination thereof and any other type of information utilizable to convey to a user relevant details relating to a given item. Further item information may include an item price such as a cost associated with a given item as well as an item quantity such as a number of items on hand at a given physical location. Item price and item quantity may be correlated with a given physical location and as such a given item may have more than one item price and more than one item quantity depending on the corresponding physical location . Also item information may further include an item substitute such as an identification of an equivalent or alternative item that may be utilized in the place of a given item. Item information may also include at least one associated item such as an identification of an item that is commonly used with a given item. For example if the given item is a can of paint then associated item may include paint brushes rollers painting tape paint thinner drop cloth etc. Further item information may include additional item information in an audio and or text format such as assembly and or use instructions warnings warranty information any combination thereof and any other relevant information that may be associated with a given item.

Additionally computer system may include a routing module that operates to determine route information associated with locating items within physical location . Routing module includes the above discussed route generator and routing information includes directions from geographic position of WCD to item location . Directions relate to a path through the physical features of physical location . Directions may include a list of movements and directions such as alphanumeric instructions as well as a graphical representation of such movements such as representations of the path the direction to move etc. Additionally directions may include audio instructions such as a voice telling a user which way to go. Routing module may further include applications algorithms etc. for determining and or optimizing additional routing information such as a travel time and or travel distance associated with directions . For instance routing module may determine the shortest distance the shortest time etc. associated with moving from geographic position to one or more item locations.

Further computer system may include a location module operable to determine geographic position of WCD . Alternatively geographic position may be received by computer system from an outside entity. Location module may have a location generator operable to generate geographic position based on communications with WCD and or other geographic location determination systems. For example location module and or location generator may include a geographic information system GIS such as a tool used to gather transform manipulate analyze and produce information related to the surface of the earth. Such a GIS can be as complex as a whole system using dedicated databases and workstations hooked up to a network or as simple as off the shelf desktop software. One example of such a system may include the QPoint Positioning Software and gpsOne hybrid Assisted GPS wireless location technology available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif.

In one embodiment such a GIS may include a global positioning system GPS such as a satellite navigational system formed by satellites orbiting the earth and their corresponding receivers on the earth. The GPS satellites continuously transmit digital radio signals that contain data on the satellites location and the exact time to the earth bound receiver. The satellites are equipped with atomic clocks that are precise for example to within a billionth of a second. Based on this information the receivers know how long it takes for the signal to reach the receiver on earth. As each signal travels at the speed of light the longer it takes the receiver to get the signal the farther away the satellite is located. By knowing how far away a satellite is the receiver knows that it is located somewhere on the surface of an imaginary sphere centered at the satellite. By using three satellites GPS can calculate the longitude and latitude of the receiver based on where the three spheres intersect. By using four satellites GPS can also determine altitude. In one embodiment the GPS receiver may be a portion of WCD .

In another embodiment such a GIS may include a network based positioning system whereby location module determines geographic position based on network communications WCD . For instance communication signals may be exchanged between location module and WCD that include timing information that enables location module to compute a relative position and hence geographic position of the WCD with respect to a known position. For example such communications signals may include the signals periodically exchanged between a cellular telephone and a base station. Such a network based system may also be utilized in combination with a GPS based system.

Further referring to one embodiment of computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing data and instructions such as data and instructions related to mapping module routing module and or location module to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system may further include a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to the bus for additional storage of data and instructions related to system .

Computer system may be coupled via the bus to output mechanism such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a flat panel display for displaying information to a user. An input device including alphanumeric and function keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device may be a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display. This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y allowing the device to specify positions in a plane.

The described embodiments relate to the use of computer system such as the embodiment of to manage communications with at least one of a WCD and remotely located computer system to carry out the instructions of at least one of mapping module routing module and or location module . According to one embodiment for example data relating to geographic position of WCD and item location are tracked and analyzed by computer system in response to processor executing sequences of instructions contained in main memory in response to input received via input device cursor control and or a communications interface . Further such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . However the computer readable medium is not limited to devices such as storage device . For example the computer readable medium may include a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave embodied in an electrical electromagnetic infrared or optical signal or any other medium from which a computer can read. Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described below. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry and or firmware may be used in place of or in combination with computer software instructions to implement the described embodiments. Thus the described embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Communications interface which is coupled to bus provides two way data communication with another device and or network. For example two or more computer systems may be networked together in a conventional manner with each using the communications interface . Suitable examples of communications interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card a digital subscriber line DSL card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communications interface is operable to send and receive electrical electromagnetic and or optical signals which carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Of particular note the communications through interface may permit transmission or receipt of data such as map information physical location information item information and any other data and or instructions associated with computer device and or system .

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. In one embodiment for example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic and or optical signals which carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communications interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information. It should be noted that communications network may include any combination of network link local network host computer ISP and Internet .

Computer system can send messages including program code and map information and receive data through the network s network link and communications interface . In the Internet example computer system might transmit a requested code for an application program or map information such as to WCD through Internet ISP local network and communications interface . In accordance with the described embodiments such a downloaded application and or information may be operated by WCD which provides for the local management of the data and instructions associated with system .

Referring back to communications network may be a distributed computer network that includes at least a wireless communications network . Communications network may include at least one of a local area network a wide area network a public switched telephone network PSTN a satellite telephone network a terrestrial telephone network and a heterogeneous public network of computers such as the Internet. Wireless communications network may include at least one or a combination of networks for providing at least in some portion a wireless communications transmission between two devices. Suitable examples of wireless communications network include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio networks. Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as Personal Communications Services code division multiple access wideband code division multiple access universal mobile telecommunications system advanced mobile phone service time division multiple access frequency division multiple access global system for mobile communication analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

WCD may include any type of computerized device operable to transmit and receive communications signals across communications network . Suitable examples of such communications devices include a cellular telephone a satellite telephone a land based telephone a personal digital assistant a two way pager a desktop or laptop computer or workstation a server etc. For example WCD may be in short range communication with at least some portion of computer system such as through a Bluetooth technology network. Alternatively WCD may be in communication with computer system through a wireless terrestrial telephone network such as a cellular or PCS network connected to distributed computer network such as the Internet. Also WCD may be in communication with computer system through any other type of network link such as an optical cable link or a radio link connected to communications network .

In another embodiment referring to for example location based system may include wireless communications devices in the form of a cellular telephone operable on wireless communications network such as cellular telephone network . The use of cellular telecommunication pathways has been increasing because wireless mobile communications devices such as cellular telephones are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers communicating packets including at least one of voice and data over the wireless network. Embodiments of these smart cellular telephones for example have installed application programming interfaces APIs onto their resident computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a block diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the present system. Cellular telephone network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as cellular telephones communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of cellular telephone network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. Although illustrated as cellular telephones other wireless devices may be utilized such as a personal digital assistant a two way pager and any other device having a computer platform that has a wireless communications portal.

Still referring to the embodiment of computer system and its associated modules may be present with any other related components on a network which is in communication with cellular telephone network . The related components may be other dedicated system components that provide services and processes to the associated wireless devices. For example computer system may operate on LAN with an additional data repository and or an additional data management or post processing server such as for storing and distributing data and applications respectively. Computer system communicates with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . Carrier network communicates with the MSC through another communications link such as another network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between carrier network and MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS such as by at least one communications link including both a data network and or the Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless communications devices such as cellular telephones in an over the air protocol such as short messaging service SMS etc.

In the embodiment of each wireless device such as cellular telephones may include a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from computer system or other network servers . Computer platform may include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC may be installed at the time of manufacture of cellular telephone . ASIC or other processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in a memory of the wireless device. API is a runtime environment executing on the computing device or cellular telephone in this case. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software although other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices. Memory for example can be comprised of at least one of read only and random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards and any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform may also include a local database that can hold the software applications file or data not actively used in memory such as map information downloaded from computer system and item information received from the user of cellular telephone . Local database may include at least one of flash memory cells magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape a soft disk a hard disk and any other type of secondary or tertiary memory. Thus in the embodiment of each cellular telephone may be loaded with applications and or data from computer system in accordance with system .

The methods associated with the described embodiments are executable on the computer platforms of a wireless communications device such as cellular telephone and on computer system embodiments of the system can be implemented with at least one program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless communications device such as cellular telephone and or computer system to perform the steps of the method. Such a program can be executed on any single computer platform or can be multithreaded among several computer platforms. Furthermore embodiments include a program that directs a computer device such as computer system to perform the steps of generating map information through gathering and processing data such as geographic position and item information from the at least one WCD .

For example the computer readable medium can be memory of computer platform of cellular telephone and or memory associated with computer system . Such memory can be in a local database such as local database of the device platform and or in another database such as data repository . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other type of storage media.

Further the method embodiments may be implemented for example by operating one or more portions of system to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of system . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

In operation system may be utilized by a user of any wireless communications device to receive information relating to one or more physical locations within a geographic area where the device is positioned as well as information relating to one or more items located within the respective physical locations. For example referring to one embodiment of a location based method of communicating information includes receiving a geographic position associated with a wireless communications device Block . For example in one embodiment WCD may come within range of computer system that communicates with WCD though a short range wireless communications protocol such as Bluetooth technology. In this embodiment because computer system only broadcasts within a short distance geographic position of WCD may be associated with the physical position of computer system . In alternate embodiments location module may communicate with WCD and or an outside entity that is also in communication with WCD such as a geographic information system to either calculate and or receive a calculation of the current geographic position of WCD such as via a GPS system and or a GIS system. The method further includes generating map information based on the received geographic position Block . For example in one embodiment mapping module receives geographic position from location module and identifies map information including physical location information corresponding to the received geographic position. Additionally the method includes transmitting map information to the wireless communications device Block . In one embodiment for example map generator operates to initiate the assembly and transmission of map information to WCD . The transmitted map information is in a format that allows WCD to present map information to a user on user interface . For example map information includes layout of physical location corresponding to geographic position of WCD . Additional layouts of additional physical locations may also be forwarded based on user interaction with computer system through WCD .

An optional portion of the method includes transmitting item information to the wireless communications device Block . In one embodiment for example a store may broadcast a list of all the merchandise or some other categorization of the merchandise available within the store. As such in this example computer system generates and transmits item information such as an item identification or an item description associated with each item in a list of items available at physical location along with or in association with layout and any other physical location information . For example such item information in particular item identification and or item description may be presented to the user of WCD on an interactive user interface that allows the user to select one or more desired items. Further an alternate portion of the method may include receiving selected item identification from the wireless communications device Block . In one embodiment for example a user of WCD selects an item associated with the received list of item identifications and or item descriptions and transmits the selected item identification s and or item description s to computer system . Alternatively the user of WCD may have a shopping list that they submit to computer system in order to receive item information such as the location and or availability of each item. In this example the user of WCD may separately enter selected item identification s and or item description s and transmit it to computer system . The user may enter the shopping list e.g. the item information directly into WCD or may enter the shopping list into any other computer device associated with system that allows the shopping list to be downloaded to WCD and or transmitted to computer system . Additionally in this alternate portion of the method when receiving the selected item information Block the method steps of generating and transmitting map information Blocks and further include generating and transmitting additional information related to the selected item information such as item location item price item quantity item substitute associated items and or additional item information . For example in the shopping list example layout may include multiple indicators representing multiple item locations. As such a user of WCD may be able to determine their own path through layout to reach each item. For example rather than picking the shortest route a user may use other factors to determine the order of reaching each item. Such other factors may include saving heavy or bulky items for last going to the location of items having low quantities first going first to item locations having perceived long wait times e.g. such as the fresh meat counter at a grocery store etc. Additionally once an item location is reached by the user of WCD the representation of the item location on the layout may change such as by changing color or changing symbols to indicate that the location has already been visited. For example computer system may compare the current geographic position of WCD and compare it to each item location and thereby recognize when the user has reached a given item location. Then computer system may generate a change in representation of the respective item information that causes the presentation of that item location to change on WCD . As such the user of WCD may be able to differentiate visited item locations from non visited item locations. This may be helpful for a user of WCD to keep track of where they have been and where they need to go. Further associated with this embodiment the method may further include generating and transmitting route information to the wireless communications device Blocks and . In one embodiment for example routing module and route generator determine directions from geographic position of WCD to one or more item locations associated with the selected items received from the user of WCD . Further routing module may also include other routing information such as a travel time and or travel distance associated with directions . Map generator may operate to combing routing information with layout for presentation to the user on user interface of WCD in order to assist the user in maneuvering through physical location . For example a user of WCD may wish to take the most efficient route through the store such as during a busy time for shopping for merchandise and thus may want the shortest distance route to locate all of their items of interest. On the other hand a user of WCD at a museum or park may only have a limited amount of time to see the items of interest and may desire to incorporate the travel time into the route to determine what items can be reached within a given time.

In another alternative besides locating items within a physical location the described embodiments may provide a method of performing a transaction at the item location and or within the physical location. For example computer system may create a virtual shopping cart associated with WCD and physical location . When the user of WCD reaches item location and loads each item into their actual shopping cart the user may communicate with computer system to indicate the item and quantity to load into the virtual shopping cart on system . For example the user may transmit a purchase item identification and a purchase item quantity from WCD to computer system which loads the indicated items into the virtual shopping cart and computes the total cost. In this manner the user of WCD may be able to keep track of the items and the associated cost of the items within their actual shopping cart as they shop. As such once the user of WCD has gone through their shopping list and is ready to check out of physical location computer system already knows the items quantities and total cost associated with a purchasing transaction. So computer system processes a purchase transaction for the items to be purchased based on the contents of the virtual shopping cart. For example computer system a self check out station or a check out clerk prompts the user for a payment method and the user may purchase the goods within their actual shopping cart by cash charge check adding the total cost to an associated billing entity such as adding to a phone bill etc. . Thus with this embodiment there is no need to individually scan each item within the user s actual shopping cart as computer system is advised of the items to be purchased as the user shops.

It should also be noted that in some embodiments geographic position may be a future geographic position of WCD . For instance a user of remotely located computer system may access computer system via communications network and identify a future geographic position of WCD and also identify and or select items of interest in order to remotely initiate a download of map information onto WCD . For instance such a feature of system may be desirable for preloading or pre arranging a desired downloading of map and or directions onto WCD prior to actually reaching the desired geographic position and or physical location.

While the various disclosed embodiments have been illustrated and described it will be clear that the subject matter of this document is not limited to these embodiments only. Numerous modifications changes variations substitutions and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments as described in the claims.

