---

title: Method and apparatus for reducing lateral interactive forces during operation of a probe-based instrument
abstract: A cantilever probe-based instrument is controlled to reduce the lateral loads imposed on the probe as a result of probe/sample interaction. In a preferred embodiment, the probe tip and/or sample are driven to move laterally relative to one another as a function of cantilever deflection in order to compensate for lateral tip motion that would otherwise be caused by cantilever deflection. In the case of a probe having a passive cantilever, the sample and/or the probe as a whole are driven to move laterally to obtain the desired magnitude of compensation as direct function of cantilever deflection. In the case of a probe having an active cantilever, the sample or probe may be moved as a function of cantilever drive signal, or the cantilever may be controlled to bend as a function of cantilever drive signal so that the tip moves to obtain the desired magnitude of compensation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07607342&OS=07607342&RS=07607342
owner: Vecco Instruments, Inc.
number: 07607342
owner_city: Santa Barara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060426
---
This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agency NIST ATP Award 70NANB4H3055 . The United States has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to probe based instruments and more particularly relates to a method and apparatus for reducing or minimizing lateral forces on the probe of the instrument during probe sample interaction.

Several probe based instruments monitor the interaction between a cantilever based probe and a sample to obtain information concerning one or more characteristics of the sample. For example scanning probe microscopes SPMs typically characterize the surface of a sample down to atomic dimensions by monitoring the interaction between the sample and a tip on a cantilever based probe probe. By providing relative scanning movement between the tip and the sample surface characteristic data can be acquired over a particular region of the sample and a corresponding map of the sample can be generated.

The atomic force microscope AFM is a very popular type of SPM. The probe devices of the typical AFM includes a very small cantilever which is fixed to a support at its base and which has a sharp probe tip attached to the opposite free end. The probe tip is brought very near to or into contact with a surface of a sample to be examined and the deflection of the cantilever in response to the probe tip s interaction with the sample is measured with an extremely sensitive deflection detector often an optical lever system such as described in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489 or some other deflection detector such as a strain gauge capacitance sensor etc. The probe is scanned over a surface using a high resolution three axis scanner acting on the sample support and or the probe. The instrument is thus capable of creating relative motion between the probe and the sample while measuring the topography elasticity or some other surface property of the sample as described e.g. in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489 Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 266 801 and Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 412 980.

AFMs may be designed to operate in a variety of modes including contact mode and oscillating mode. In contact mode operation the microscope typically scans the tip across the surface of the sample while keeping the force of the tip on the surface of the sample generally constant. This effect is accomplished by moving either the sample or the probe assembly vertically to the surface of the sample in response to sensed deflection of the cantilever as the probe is scanned horizontally across the surface. In this way the data associated with this vertical motion can be stored and then used to construct an image of the sample surface corresponding to the sample characteristic being measured e.g. surface topography. Alternatively some AFMs can at least selectively operate in an oscillation mode of operation such as TappingMode TappingMode is a trademark of Veeco Instruments Inc. operation. In TappingMode operation the tip is oscillated at or near a resonant frequency of the cantilever of the probe. The amplitude or phase of this oscillation is kept constant during scanning using feedback signals which are generated in response to tip sample interaction. As in contact mode these feedback signals are then collected stored and used as data to characterize the sample.

Regardless of their mode of operation AFMs can obtain resolution down to the atomic level on a wide variety of insulating or conductive surfaces in air liquid or vacuum by using piezoelectric scanners optical lever deflection detectors and very small cantilevers fabricated using photolithographic techniques. Because of their resolution and versatility AFMs are important measurement devices in many diverse fields ranging from semiconductor manufacturing to biological research.

When a cantilever presses against a sample surface with increasing force such as is the case when the probe is used to indent the sample or to create force vs. displacement curves the tip of the probe moves laterally due to the cantilever bending. To apply a force to the sample for the purposes of e.g. obtaining an indentation measurement the fixed end of the cantilever is moved vertically through a distance z with the tip in contact with the sample. The resultant cantilever bending generates a force k z where k is the spring constant of the cantilever. This force is not however applied entirely normal to the cantilever. A component of the force instead is imposed laterally or along the length and or width of the cantilever. This component was historically deemed to be non problematic because the lateral component of the applied force vector is typically much smaller than the normal component. However it has been discovered that the lateral force can in fact be an order of magnitude higher than the normal force.

The reasons for this somewhat counterintuitive characteristic of AFM operation can be appreciated from which schematically shows an AFM probe P interacting with a sample S during an indenting operation. The probe P includes a cantilever C having a tip T. The cantilever C is fixed on or formed integrally with a base B. The probe P is typically inclined at an angle of about 10 to 15 relative to the surface of the sample S in order to assure adequate clearance between the probe holder and the sample and in order to facilitate data acquisition by a probe detector assembly. As the probe sample spacing in the z direction is decreased by movement of the probe P toward the sample and or by movement of the sample S toward the probe P in the z direction to increase the indentation force the lateral distance available to the cantilever C in the plane L decreases. This decrease creates a compressive strain along the length of the cantilever C and results in cantilever bending as seen in . Since the cantilever C has a much higher stiffness along its length in the plane L than perpendicular to its length in the plane N the majority of the applied force is actually directed in the lateral direction in the plane L. The resulting forces tend to cause the probe tip T to displace laterally so that the tip T engages the sample S at a location Ethat is offset from the point Eof desired engagement by an offset X as seen in .

This lateral motion of the tip is undesirable since the resulting lateral forces negatively affect the shape of the surface indentations. In the absence of relative probe sample measurements material piles up uniformly in front of and behind the tip as seen in . For instance if the lateral forces tend to push the tip T away from the base sample material tends to pile up disproportionately ahead of the probe tip T as seen in . Conversely if the lateral forces tend to pull the tip toward the base material tends to pile up disproportionately behind the tip T as seen in . In either event the indentation is non uniform leading to inaccuracies in the resulting indentation data such as errors in the acquired force vs. displacement curves.

Some current AFM indentation tools attempt to reduce the lateral forces on a probe by moving the probe laterally away from the indentation point as the probe sample spacing decreases. For instance the Nanoscope software employed in some microscopes manufactured by the assignee of the present application includes a correction called an x rotation feature which moves the sample or tip laterally in proportion to the vertical or z motion of the sample or tip whichever is being driven. An AFM configured to perform the function is illustrated in . It includes a probe device configured to indent or otherwise interact with sample S mounted on a support . The probe device includes a probe supported on a substrate . The probe includes a cantilever bearing a tip that interacts with the sample S. The cantilever includes a base or fixed end extending from substrate and a free distal end that receives the tip . The sample support is movable in the xy plane under operation of an xy actuator for example. Preferably sample support is also movable in a z direction that is perpendicular to an xy plane of the sample support under the power of a z actuator . The z direction is typically vertical. Cantilever deflection is monitored by an optical detection system in the form of a detector that receives light emitted from a laser and reflected from the cantilever .

In operation the cantilever deflection data obtained from the detector is manipulated in a controller not shown and used to generate a feedback signal that it is amplified in an amplifier and then used to actuate the z actuator with the resultant drive signal providing information indicative of sample characteristics in a known manner. The controller also transmits a drive signal to the xy actuator via an amplifier so as to move the sample S relative to the probe to affect a scanning operation. The scanning operation typically comprises a so called raster scan in which data is taken in a first or x direction in a series of lines that are spaced from one another in a second or y direction typically substantially perpendicular to the x direction.

Pursuant to the x rotation technique discussed above the signal to the xy actuator is modified with an x rotation scaling signal or compensation designed to at least partially compensate for lateral loads on the probe resulting from sample probe interaction. That modification is shown schematically as taking place in an adder located upstream of amplifier . The compensation signal is proportional of the drive signal applied to the z actuator . The magnitude of the compensation signal is based solely or at least primarily on the geometric configuration of the AFM and is largely independent of cantilever deflection.

Hence this approach merely adds an x offset voltage to the signal from the xy actuator that is proportional to the z voltage applied to the z actuator without taking into account the properties of the sample the cantilever or the interaction between the two. This approach is less than optimally effective for several reasons particularly if the cantilever is not substantially stiffer than the sample. For instance a cantilever of a given stiffness will bend more for a given amount of z travel when the probe is driven against a relatively hard surface than when it is driven against a relatively soft surface resulting in greater lateral deflection and the need for more compensation. The x rotation software does not take this variable into account. It also ignores the effects of cantilever motion such as bending on lateral deflection. It also fails to take tip sharpness into account. As a result x rotation control is sometimes ineffective and even when it is effective for a particular probe sample combination it tends to have low repeatability.

Axially symmetric indenters have been developed that lack the need for lateral compensation. However these instruments have low mechanical bandwidth on the order of 300 Hz and relatively poor sensitivity because they are subject to high levels of noise. For instance MTS and Hysitron produce nano indentation devices in which an indenter tip such as a Berkovich tip is driven into a sample using a multi plate capacitor transducer system. The device has drive and pickup plates mounted on a suspension system. It provides relative movement between the plates when the forces applied to the pickup plates drive the probe into contact with the sample. The change in space between the plates provides an accurate indication of the probes vertical movement. The input actuation forces and vertical position readout are therefore all decoupled resulting in a generally purely symmetrical indentation process. In practice the sensor element is mounted on a scanning tunneling microscope and a sample is mounted on the sensor. The force sensor then can be used for both measuring the applied force during micro indentation or micro hardness testing and for imaging before and after the testing to achieve an applied AFM type image of the surface before and after the indentation process. Systems of this type are described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 576 483 to Bonin and U.S. Pat. No. 6 026 677 to Bonin both assigned to Hysitron Incorporated.

While the indenter described above provides axially symmetric indentation it has a very low bandwidth because of the relatively large mass of the capacitive plates. The instrument also cannot obtain an accurate image of indentations particularly in relatively elastic samples because of sample rebound between the indentation and image acquisition passes and because of the large tip radius inherent in the indenter tip. It also has relatively poor force sensitivity on the order of 15 nano Newtons as opposed to a few nano Newtons for a true AFM having a much smaller tip.

The need has arisen to effectively and reliably reduce the lateral forces imposed on a probe as a result of probe sample interaction.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention one or more of the above identified needs is met by providing a probe based instrument that can be controlled to reduce the lateral loads that would otherwise be imposed on the probe as a result of probe sample interaction. Lateral in this regard means perpendicular to the direction of probe and or sample movement during an indenting or similar interaction in which the probe engages the sample. This interaction movement is traditionally said to occur in the z direction. Lateral in this regard therefore means in either the x direction and or the y direction.

In a preferred embodiment the probe tip and or sample are driven to move laterally relative to one another as a function of a parameter indicative of cantilever deflection movement in order to compensate for lateral tip motion that would otherwise be caused by cantilever deflection. In the case of a probe having a passive cantilever the parameter is cantilever deflection and the sample and or the probe as whole are driven to move laterally to obtain the desired magnitude of compensation. In the case of a probe having an active cantilever the parameter is the drive voltage supplied to the active cantilever and the probe and or sample are driven to move or the cantilever is controlled to bend so that the tip moves to obtain the desired magnitude of compensation.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the instrument is calibrated to obtain the desired movement. The instrument may be calibrated for lateral force reduction via any of a variety of techniques. For instance lateral compensation can be adjusted as the instrument is scanned over a trench or other feature until observed shifts in the image resulting from lateral under compensation or overcompensation are eliminated. In another technique deflection curves can be observed as a probe is forced into a hole or similar feature and lateral compensation can be adjusted until the curves lack marked changes of slope indicative of overcompensation or under compensation. Still another technique is to adjust lateral compensation as indentations are made in an anisotropic material such as PDA and to directly observe the material s response to changes in lateral compensation until sample tearing is at least substantially avoided. Other techniques are possible as well.

Lateral compensation can be performed with instruments having passive cantilevers as well as those having active cantilevers. It also can be performed with instruments in which the probe is scanned relative to the sample and vice versa. It can also be performed either with or without feedback.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

As discussed briefly in the Summary section above an aspect of the invention lies in the controlled movement of a probe and or sample of an AFM or other probe based instrument as a function of cantilever deflection or a parameter indicative of cantilever deflection in order to reduce or eliminate lateral forces on a probe during probe sample interaction hence permitting the formation of axially symmetric indents and the accurate determination of applied vertical load. The method is applicable to both instruments having a passive cantilever and those having an active cantilever and may be performed in either an open loop or closed loop fashion. Preferred techniques for calibrating an instrument are also disclosed.

Referring first to lateral force reduction as applied to an SPM having a passive cantilever based probe P preferably involves moving the tip T and or samples laterally as a function of cantilever deflection to compensate for lateral tip motion that otherwise would be caused by cantilever deflection. The probe P may comprise any of the type commonly found in AFMs and other SPMs. The illustrated probe includes a cantilever C bearing a tip T that interacts with a sample S during indentation. Cantilever C includes a fixed end preferably extending from a base and a free distal end that receives tip T. The probe P and or the sample S can be driven to effect relative movement therebetween in the x y and z directions.

The relative lateral movement is effected by applying a drive voltage to the xy actuator for either a sample support see below or the probe see below that varies as a function of measured cantilever deflection. Unlike the x rotation prior art mentioned above in which the compensation signal is applied at least primarily as a function of the drive voltage to the instrument s z actuator the applied voltage is not directly dependent on the drive voltage to the z actuator but instead is precalibrated for any given cantilever deflection value.

Referring to an active cantilever C of a probe P could also be controlled to compensate for lateral loads on the tip T . The active cantilever C could be any number of cantilevers that can be deformed in a controlled manner. It may for example be one that deforms under induced thermal stress one that deforms under electromagnetic forces one that deforms under ultrasonic pressure and or one that deforms under photon pressure. It preferably is piezoelectric composite cantilever more preferably one that contains a layer of a ZnO piezoelectric film F on the active cantilever C for instance between two metal electrodes deposited on a silicon cantilever thus forming a bimorph device. By applying a voltage to the actuator s electrodes the actuator bends towards or away from the sample surfaces. Active cantilevers of this type were originally developed for AFMs at Stanford University. Similarly active cantilevers and control systems are described for instance in U.S. Pat. No. 5 317 533 to Quate et al. and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 672 144 6 530 266 and 6 189 374 to Adderton et al. the disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In active cantilever based systems it is sometimes desirable to control the drive signal to the active cantilever and or the z actuator to maintain the angle at the tip of the cantilever relative to the z plane constant. In this case there is no measurable change in deflection angle at the free end of the cantilever to serve as a basis for controlling relative probe sample movement. However as seen in the tip T may still move laterally due to deflection of other sections of the cantilever as whole resulting in a lateral offset X between the desired point of sample engagement Eand the actual point E. The lateral movement resulting from this deflection is a function to drive voltage applied to the active cantilever. In this case lateral tip motion can be compensated for as a function of the drive signal to the active cantilever because deflection of the bent portion of the cantilever is a direct function of that voltage. That is for any particular drive signal voltage a precalibrated compensation voltage can be applied to the AFM s xy actuator to compensate for tip lateral motion and reduce lateral forces on the tip T as seen in .

Referring now to an AFM constructed in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention is shown that has a probe device configured to indent a sample S mounted on a support . The probe device includes a probe extending from a base . The probe includes a cantilever bearing a tip that interacts with sample S during indentation. Cantilever includes a fixed end contiguous with base and a free distal end that receives tip . Cantilever of this embodiment is passive and accordingly lacks a piezoelectric bimorph element or other element that that can be energized to bend the cantilever to raise and lower the tip independently of z actuator operation. The probe device of this embodiment is mounted on an actuator assembly including a z actuator and an xy actuator . The xy actuator is energizable to drive the probe in mutually orthogonal x and y directions in an xy plane that is parallel to a plane of the sample support . The xy plane is typically horizontal. The z actuator drives the probe to move in a direction that is perpendicular to the xy plane and is typically vertical. Both actuators and typically comprise piezoelectric actuators. Cantilever deflection is measured by a detector located above the probe device . The detector may for example comprise an optical detector having a four quadrant photodetector and a laser . A controller only components of which are shown receives signals from the photodetector and controls operation of the xy actuator and the z actuator .

In operation the interaction between tip and the surface sample S deflects cantilever . This deflection is detected by the photodetector which transmits corresponding deflection signals to the controller. The resultant data is used to produce information reflecting vertical and lateral deflection of the cantilever . That information can then be demodulated either in analog or digital circuitry located external to the controller or circuitry within the controller to obtain information regarding the lateral and vertical positions of the probe as well as phase information if the probe is operating in an oscillating mode such as TappingMode operation. When used in conjunction with very small microfabricated cantilevers and piezoelectric positioners as lateral and vertical scanners AFMs of the type contemplated by the present invention can have resolution down to the molecular level and can operate with controllable forces small enough to image biological substances.

With continued reference to the controller or a separate dedicated controller not shown energizes the z actuator via an amplifier to move the probe in the z direction to indent with or otherwise engage the sample according to the user s requirements. The controller or a separate dedicated controller also transmits a lateral compensation signal to the xy actuator in order effect lateral force reduction. The xy actuator may be controlled to move the probe in the x direction the y direction or a combination of both. The compensation signal is preferably added to an xy scan drive signal such as raster scan signals. This addition is schematically illustrated as taking place in an adder located upstream of an amplifier . This compensation voltage may be applied in the x direction the y direction or a combination of both. Because the lateral forces imposed on the cantilever are reduced during probe sample interaction the force on the sample S therefore is a simple function of the indentation voltage applied to the z actuator . If the frame compliance is neglected the applied force is F k S V where F is the applied force k is the cantilever spring constant S is the piezo sensitivity and V is the applied voltage.

Another embodiment of an AFM configured to reduce lateral forces on the probe during sample indentation is illustrated in . The AFM of this embodiment is similar to the AFM of the embodiment of and components thereof having corresponding components to those of are therefore designated by the same reference numerals incremented by 100. The AFM includes a stationary probe device and a sample support . In this embodiment sample support is movable in the x y and z directions relative to the probe device via actuation of an xy actuator and a z actuator both located under the sample support . Probe device includes probe having a cantilever and tip . The cantilever includes a fixed end attached and extending from base and a free distal end that receives the tip . A deflection detection system including a photodetector and a laser is provided for measuring cantilever deflection.

With continued reference to the controller or a separate dedicated controller not shown energizes the z actuator via an amplifier to move the probe in the z direction to indent with or otherwise engage the sample according to the user s requirements. The controller also drives the sample support to move in the xy plane for scanning purposes via the transmission of a control signal to the xy actuator via an amplifier . The xy actuator also receives the lateral compensation signal which is combined with the scanning signal from an xy scan drive in an adder located upstream of amplifier .

In still another embodiment illustrated in the probe of the probe device includes an active cantilever rather than a passive cantilever. The AFM of this embodiment is similar to the AFM of the embodiment of and components thereof having components corresponding to those of are therefore designated by the same reference numeral incremented by 100. The probe includes a cantilever bearing a tip that interacts with a sample S during an AFM operation indentation. Cantilever includes a fixed end preferably attached to a base and a free distal end that receives tip . Cantilever of this embodiment is an active cantilever having a piezoelectric bimorph element or other element that can be energized to bend the cantilever to raise and lower the tip independently of z actuator operation. The probe device of this embodiment is mounted on an actuator assembly including an xy actuator and a z actuator . The xy actuator could alternatively be used to move the sample support as in the embodiment of . Cantilever deflection is measured by an optical detector including a position sensitive photodetector and a laser . A controller only components of which are shown receives signals from the photodetector and controls operation of the xy actuator and the z actuator .

Lateral force compensation can be achieved through control of xy actuator . In this case the adder receiving the compensation signal may be placed in the signal path leading to the amplifier for the xy actuator .

In operation the interaction between tip and sample surface S deflects the cantilever . This deflection is detected by the photodetector which transmits a corresponding deflection signal to the controller. The resultant data is used to produce information reflecting vertical and lateral deflection of the cantilever. That information can then be demodulated either in external analog or digital circuitry located external to the controller or in circuitry within the controller to obtain information regarding the lateral and vertical positions of the probe . The controller or a separate dedicated controller not shown may use feedback from the detector to energize the bimorph element of the active cantilever to move the probe in the z direction to indent with or otherwise engage the sample S. The compensation signal which is supplied to the adder and combined with the scan signal is a function of the drive signal to the active cantilever as discussed above in conjunction with .

Referring to a possible process for controlling one of the AFMs described above to calibrate the probe is illustrated. The process proceeds from START in Block to Block where a controller actuates the AFM s z actuator to decrease the probe sample spacing. The process then measures cantilever deflection in Block using signals from the AFM s photodetector. The process then proceeds to Block where the required lateral compensation for the measured deflection is determined. Specifically in the case of a probe having a passive cantilever the magnitude of compensation is preferably determined directly as a function of cantilever deflection using precalibrated data acquired for example via any of the various techniques described below in conjunction with . In the case of a probe having an active cantilever the magnitude of lateral compensation is preferably determined as a function of drive signal to the active cantilever. As described above that voltage is still indicative of the magnitude of tip lateral movement and of a parameter of cantilever deflection. Then in Block the appropriate actuator s is controlled to effect the required lateral compensation in the x and or y direction. This control could be purely open loop or could be closed loop. The measured cantilever deflection which is now essentially free of any tip offset in the lateral deflection can then be acquired and used as data for the measurement of interest such as indentation depth and location. That data acquisition is represented by Block . The process then inquires in Block to determine if the measurement is complete and cycles through Blocks until the sample indentation or other measurement process is complete. The process then proceeds to END in Block .

Various techniques are available for calibrating a SPM to determine the amount of lateral compensation required for a given cantilever deflection or other AFM parameter that is at least indirectly indicative of cantilever deflection. Several techniques will now be described. By and large these techniques are not mutually exclusive and others may be available.

A first technique involves the scanning of a characteristic of a sample feature and adjusting the gain on an xy actuator to eliminate offset in an image of that characteristic resulting from lateral probe tip displacement. The characteristic may for example be a magnetic field a thermal field a capacitive field an inductive field or a physical topographic feature. The inventive technique will now be described in conjunction with the scanning of a topographic feature in the form of a trench TR by way of example only. It is preferably performed in accordance with the process illustrated in the flowchart of .

Process proceeds from START at which time the tip T is positioned above the trench TR as illustrated in to Block where the tip T engages trenches TR as seen in . The probe P is then scanned back and forth across the edges ED ED and ED of the trenches TR in the x direction in contact mode and the resulting image is acquired in Block . The resultant image can be seen at Iin . Then in Block the z spacing between the sample S and the probe P is varied to change the deflection of the cantilever C. The process then proceeds to Block where the same feature is scanned again without moving the scanner in the y direction and the resultant image is acquired. That image is seen at I in . The process then inquires in Block if the newly acquired image shifted laterally when compared to the previously acquired image. The comparison and identification of any shift can be observed either manually or automatically for example with pattern recognition software. Shifts in images I I etc. observed when scanning the trench TR at various different deflections are illustrated in . The shifts X between the apparent locations of each of the edges ED ED and ED in the various images I I etc. indicate that compensation is either non existent or inaccurate.

When an image shift is detected the process proceeds to Block where the gain to the AFM s xy actuator is adjusted to alter lateral compensation. The adjustment may be performed either manually via manipulation of a dial or similar control or via software programmed into the AFM s controls. The process then returns to Block where the image is scanned again and the resultant image is again compared to the original image in Block . The lateral compensation adjustment scanning and operation steps are repeated until the noted offset is eliminated. This effect can be seen in in which the observed locations of any given trench edge for various cantilever deflection values are aligned in the images I I and I. The desired calibration signal for the prevailing cantilever deflection is then stored in Block . The process then inquires in Block if calibration is complete and if not proceeds to Block where the z actuator is energized to change the deflection of the cantilever and the process of Blocks is repeated for a full range of cantilever deflections. At the end of this time the observed locations of the any particular trench edge are the same for all values of cantilever deflection as can bee seen in . The process then proceeds to END in Block .

A disadvantage of this calibration technique is that scanning takes place in contact mode and therefore produces substantial forces on the tip T. These forces may lead to fairly rapid tip wear and even possibly tip breakage. This is because the bending forces required to bend the cantilever are transmitted through the tip T. In the case of a probe P having an active cantilever however the forces applied on the tip can be substantially reduced during the above identified calibration process by bending the cantilever not by changing a probe sample spacing but by changing the drive voltage to the active cantilever. As a result scanning can be done in contact mode with reduced forces or even in other modes such as TappingMode .

Another calibration technique involves monitoring cantilever deflection as a probe is driven to engage and then disengage a surface topographical feature such as a trench or a deep hole. The term deep as used herein means that the bottom of the feature of interest is below the bottom of the tip at all times in order to prevent data skewing that could otherwise occur as a result of engagement between the tip and the bottom of the feature of interest. As seen in engagement of the tip T with the sides of the feature H prevents lateral motion of the cantilever C in the x direction during the engagement and disengagement process. As a result lateral forces imposed on the tip T result in buckling of the cantilever C. That buckling results in a sharp change in a deflection curve plotted during the engagement and disengagement phases. The instrument can then be calibrated by adjusting the lateral force compensation control signal until the observed buckling is reduced or at least substantially eliminated. For instance referring to the deflection curves and of curve plots the increase in deflection during the probe sample engagement process and curve plots the decrease during the probe sample disengagement process. Sharp changes in slope indicative of buckling are observed at points and on the respective curves and . That buckling is indicative of either no lateral compensation or under compensation. Conversely illustrates overcompensation in which a point on curve designates a noticeable increase in slope on the engagement phase of the probe sample interaction process and point on curve indicates a notable reduction in slope during the disengagement phase. In either event the gain to the xy actuator or the active cantilever can then be adjusted either manually or via software and the process repeated. illustrates a situation in which the lateral compensation gain is optimal leading to no cantilever buckling and no resultant sharp changes in slope of the ingoing or outgoing displacement curves and . Hence the instrument can be calibrated by determining an optimal compensation gain for a full range of cantilever deflections.

Still another technique for calibrating a probe differs from the techniques discussed above in that calibration involves the direct observation of the response of the material to probe sample interaction as opposed to observing the response as a result of cantilever bending. This technique involves the indentation of a sample with an anisotropic material. An anisotropic material is one that has markedly different stiffnesses in opposite directions on the surface. An example of such a material is a polydiacetylene crystal PDA . PDA or another anisotropic material tears more easily in one surface direction than the other. This characteristic can be used to calibrate an SPM cantilever for lateral force compensation by adjusting the gain to the SPM s xy actuator or its active cantilever to at least substantially eliminate that tearing during a sample indentation process.

This calibration process is shown in which illustrates images of indentations ID acquired at various levels of lateral compensation for various values of cantilever deflection. All indents in this image were made with the same magnitude of cantilever deflection. However each row of the indents is acquired at a particular lateral compensation ranging from 0 to 3 volts. As can be seen in the first row of that image substantial tearing occurs at all values of cantilever deflection at zero compensation. That tearing is denoted by a sharp vertical trailing edge TE on the image with a tapered tear leading away from that edge toward the leading edge LE such that the torn area has generally the shape of an arrowhead. As the gain to the xy actuator or active cantilever is increased from 0.0 V to 3.0 V that tearing is reduced then eliminated at correct compensation and then occurs again at overcompensation. Hence in this illustrated example lateral forces are ideally compensated between 2.0 and 2.5 volts.

Each indentation ID may be made and then scanned individually. Preferably however all of the indentations are made before any data is acquired and an image of all of the indentations ID is then obtained using any desired SPM scanning technique such as a TappingMode scan. The acquired image can then be analyzed either manually or via pattern recognition and the correct compensation for each cantilever deflection level observed and recorded.

A variation of the above identified technique is to make a direct indentation on any sample not necessarily an anisotropic sample that is softer than the cantilever tip and to select a compensation gain that results in uniform pileup ahead of and behind the tip. Hence referring again to the uniform pileup of indicates correct compensation for a given magnitude of cantilever deflection whereas the nonsymmetrical pileups of indicate under compensation and overcompensation respectively. Uniformity or non uniformity of pileup could be observed either by determining the area of the pileup in top view or observing the height of the pile up in side view.

Although the best mode contemplated by the inventors of carrying out the present invention is disclosed above practice of the present invention is not limited thereto. It will be manifest that various additions modifications and rearrangements of the features of the present invention may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the underlying inventive concept. The scope of still other changes to the described embodiments that fall within the present invention but that are not specifically discussed above will become apparent from the appended claims and other attachments.

