---

title: Gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonists and methods relating thereto
abstract: 

wherein A, Q, R, R, R, R, R, R, Rand n are as defined herein, including stereoisomers, prodrugs and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Also disclosed are compositions containing a compound of this invention in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, as well as methods relating to the use thereof for antagonizing gonadotropin-releasing hormone in a subject in need thereof.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07462625&OS=07462625&RS=07462625
owner: Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.
number: 07462625
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060911
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser.No. 11 016 551 filed Dec. 17 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 7 179 815 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 361 144 filed Feb. 6 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 872 728 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 771 107 filed Jan. 25 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 197 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 239 683 filed Oct. 11 2000 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 177 933 filed Jan. 25 2000 all of which applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Partial funding of the work described herein was provided by the U.S. Government under Grant No. R43 HD38625 provided by the National Institutes of Health. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates generally to gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists and to methods of treating disorders by administration of such antagonists to a warm blooded animal in need thereof.

Gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH also known as luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH is a decapeptide pGlu His Trp Ser Tyr Gly Leu Arg Pro Gly NH that plays an important role in human reproduction. GnRH is released from the hypothalamus and acts on the pituitary gland to stimulate the biosynthesis and release of luteinizing hormone LH and follicle stimulating hormone FSH . LH released from the pituitary gland is responsible for the regulation of gonadal steroid production in both males and females while FSH regulates spermatogenesis in males and follicular development in females.

Due to its biological importance synthetic antagonists and agonists to GnRH have been the focus of considerable attention particularly in the context of prostate cancer breast cancer endometriosis uterine leiomyoma and precocious puberty. For example peptidic GnRH agonists such as leuprorelin pGlu His Trp Ser Tyr D Leu Leu Arg Pro NHEt have been used to treat such conditions. Such agonists appear to function by binding to the GnRH receptor in the pituitary gonadotropins thereby inducing the synthesis and release of gonadotropins. Chronic administration of GnRH agonists depletes gonadotropins and subsequently down regulates the receptor resulting in suppression of steroidal hormones after some period of time e.g. on the order of 2 3 weeks following initiation of chronic administration .

In contrast GnRH antagonists are believed to suppress gonadotropins from the onset and thus have received the most attention over the past two decades. To date some of the primary obstacles to the clinical use of such antagonists have been their relatively low bioavailability and adverse side effects caused by histamine release. However several peptidic antagonists with low histamine release properties have been reported although they still must be delivered via sustained delivery routes such as subcutaneous injection or intranasal spray due to limited bioavailability.

In view of the limitations associated with peptidic GnRH antagonists a number of nonpeptidic compounds have been proposed. For example Cho et al. 41 4190 4195 1998 discloses thieno 2 3 b pyridin 4 ones for use as GnRH receptor antagonists U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 780 437 and 5 849 764 teach substituted indoles as GnRH receptor antagonists as do published PCTs WO 97 21704 98 55479 98 55470 98 55116 98 55119 97 21707 97 21703 and 97 21435 published PCT WO 96 38438 discloses tricyclic diazepines as GnRH receptor antagonists published PCTs WO97 14682 97 14697 and 99 09033 disclose quinoline and thienopyridine derivatives as GnRH antagonists published PCTs WO 97 44037 97 44041 97 44321 and 97 44339 teach substituted quinolin 2 ones as GnRH receptor antagonists and published PCT WO 99 33831 discloses certain phenyl substituted fused nitrogen containing bicyclic compounds as GnRH receptor antagonists.

While significant strides have been made in this field there remains a need in the art for effective small molecule GnRH receptor antagonists. There is also a need for pharmaceutical compositions containing such GnRH receptor antagonists as well as methods relating to the use thereof to treat for example sex hormone related conditions. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides other related advantages.

In brief this invention is generally directed to gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists as well as to methods for their preparation and use and to pharmaceutical compositions containing the same. More specifically the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention are compounds having the following general structure I 

The GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention have utility over a wide range of therapeutic applications and may be used to treat a variety of sex hormone related conditions in both men and women as well as a mammal in general also referred to herein as a subject . For example such conditions include endometriosis uterine fibroids polycystic ovarian disease hirsutism precocious puberty gonadal steroid dependent neoplasia such as cancers of the prostate breast and ovary gonadotrophe pituitary adenomas sleep apnea irritable bowel syndrome premenstrual syndrome benign prostatic hypertrophy contraception and infertility e.g. assisted reproductive therapy such as in vitro fertilization . The compounds of this invention are also useful as an adjunct to treatment of growth hormone deficiency and short stature and for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosis. The compounds are also useful in combination with androgens estrogens progesterones and antiestrogens and antiprogestogens for the treatment of endometriosis fibroids and in contraception as well as in combination with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a renin inhibitor for the treatment of uterine fibroids. In addition the compounds may be used in combination with bisphosphonates and other agents for the treatment and or prevention of disturbances of calcium phosphate and bone metabolism and in combination with estrogens progesterones and or androgens for the prevention or treatment of bone loss or hypogonadal symptoms such as hot flashes during therapy with a GnRH antagonist.

The methods of this invention include administering an effective amount of a GnRH receptor antagonist preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition to a mammal in need thereof. Thus in still a further embodiment pharmaceutical compositions are disclosed containing one or more GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent.

These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description. To this end various references are set forth herein which describe in more detail certain background information procedures compounds and or compositions and are each hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

As mentioned above the present invention is directed generally to compounds useful as gonadotropin releasing hormone GnRH receptor antagonists. The compounds of this invention have the following structure I 

Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl substituted heterocyclealkyl C R NR or C NRR NR 

or Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a heterocycle ring or a substituted heterocycle ring 

Rand Rare the same or different and at each occurrence independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy alkylthio alkylamino aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl substituted heterocyclealkyl COORor CONRR 

or Rand Rtaken together with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a homocyclic ring substituted homocyclic ring heterocyclic ring or substituted heterocyclic ring 

or Rand the carbon to which it is attached taken together with Rand the nitrogen to which it is attached form a heterocyclic ring or substituted heterocyclic ring 

Ris higher alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl heterocycle substituted heterocycle COR COOR CONRR OR OCOR OSOR SR SOR NRR NRCOR NRCONRR NRSORor NRSONRR 

Ris hydrogen halogen lower alkyl substituted lower alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl alkoxy alkylthio alkylamino cyano or nitro 

Ris higher alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or substituted heteroarylalkyl 

Ris hydrogen SOR cyano alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl or substituted heteroarylalkyl and

R R R R R R R R R R R R R Rand Rare the same or different and at each occurrence independently hydrogen acyl alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl or substituted heterocyclealkyl 

or Rand R Rand R Rand R Rand R or Rand Rtaken together with the atom or atoms to which they are attached form a homocyclic ring substituted homocyclic ring heterocyclic ring or substituted heterocyclic ring.

 Alkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 10 carbon atoms while the term lower alkyl has the same meaning as alkyl but contains from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The term higher alkyl has the same meaning as alkyl but contains from 2 to 10 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and the like while unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Cyclic alkyls are also referred to herein as a homocycles or homocyclic rings. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like while representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like.

 Arylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atoms replaced with an aryl moiety such as benzyl CH phenyl CH phenyl CH phenyl and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic heterocycle ring of 5 to 10 members and having at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and containing at least 1 carbon atom including both mono and bicyclic ring systems. Representative heteroaryls are furyl benzofuranyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl pyrrolyl indolyl isoindolyl azaindolyl pyridyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl isooxazolyl benzoxazolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl benzimidazolyl thiazolyl benzothiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl and quinazolinyl.

 Heteroarylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heteroaryl moiety such as CHpyridinyl CHpyrimidinyl and the like.

 Heterocycle also referred to herein as a heterocyclic ring means a 4 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring which is either saturated unsaturated or aromatic and which contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be optionally quaternized including bicyclic rings in which any of the above heterocycles are fused to a benzene ring. The heterocycle may be attached via any heteroatom or carbon atom. Heterocycles include heteroaryls as defined above. Thus in addition to the heteroaryls listed above heterocycles also include morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydroprimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and the like.

 Heterocyclealkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heterocycle such as CHmorpholinyl and the like.

 Homocycle also referred to herein as homocyclic ring means a saturated or unsaturated but not aromatic carbocyclic ring containing from 3 7 carbon atoms such as cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane cyclohexane cycloheptane cyclohexene and the like.

The term substituted as used herein means any of the above groups i.e. alkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl homocycle heterocycle and or heterocyclealkyl wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a substituent. In the case of a keto substituent C O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. When substituted one or more of the above groups are substituted substituents within the context of this invention include halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy alkylthio haloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl heterocycle and heterocyclealkyl as well as NRR NRC O R NRC O NRNR NRC O OR NRSOR C O R C O OR C O NRR OC O NRR OR SR SOR S O R OS O Rand S O OR. In addition the above substituents may be further substituted with one or more of the above substituents such that the substituent substituted alky substituted aryl substituted arylalkyl substituted heterocycle or substituted heterocyclealkyl. Rand Rin this context may be the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl or substituted heterocyclealkyl.

 Haloalkyl means an alkyl having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as trifluoromethyl and the like.

 Alkoxy means an alkyl moiety attached through an oxygen bridge i.e. O alkyl such as methoxy ethoxy and the like.

 Alkylthio means an alkyl moiety attached through a sulfur bridge i.e. S alkyl such as methylthio ethylthio and the like.

 Alkylsulfonyl means an alkyl moiety attached through a sulfonyl bridge i.e. SO alkyl such as methylsulfonyl ethylsulfonyl and the like.

 Alkylamino and dialkylamino mean one or two alkyl moiety attached through a nitrogen bridge i.e. N alkyl such as methylamino ethylamino dimethylamino diethylamino and the like.

In one embodiment of this invention A is O and representative GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention include compounds having the following structure II 

In another embodiment Q is CRR Z CRR r and s are both zero and representative GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention include compounds having the following structure III 

In further embodiments of this invention Ris substituted or unsubstituted benzyl as represented by the following structure VI wherein Y represents one or more optional substituents as defined above 

In a more specific embodiment of structure VI A is O n is 2 and each occurrence of Rand Ris H as represented by the following structure VII 

With regard to the RRN CRR moiety of structure I n may be 2 3 or 4. Accordingly this moiety may be represented by the following structure i when n is 2 structure ii when n is 3 and structure iii when n is 3 

wherein each occurrence of Rand Rabove may be the same or different and are as defined above. For example when each occurrence of Rand Rin structures i ii and iii is hydrogen the RRN CRR moiety has the structure RRN CH RRN CH and RRN CH respectively.

The compounds of the present invention may be prepared by known organic synthesis techniques including the methods described in more detail in the Examples. However in general the compounds of structure I above may be made by the following Reaction Schemes. Specifically compounds of structure I wherein A is oxygen may be made by Reaction Schemes A to E. Reaction Schemes F to K are appropriate for compounds of structure I wherein A is sulfur or NR as well as where A is oxygen. Reaction Scheme L shows conditions for the conversion of thiouracils where A is sulfur to embodiments wherein A is NR. All substituents in the following Reaction Schemes are as defined above unless indicated otherwise.

Allylurea i and substituted acetoacetate ii are condensed under acidic conditions in a solvent such as ethanol or DMF at 25 to 100 C. and then cyclized under strongly basic conditions to give the substituted 3 allyl 2 4 pyrimidinedione iii . Compound iii can then be modified by alkylation with an appropriate alkyl halide where X is halogen in a solvent such as DMF or ethanol for 1 hour to 2 days in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or tetrabutylammonium fluoride to yield iv . Oxidation of the allyl functionality using osmium tetroxide and or sodium periodate in solvent such as THF and or water for 1 24 hours gives aldehyde v . Bromination of v using bromine or n bromosuccinimide in a solvent such as acetic acid or chloroform for 1 24 hours resulted in brominated compound vi . Reductive amination of vi with an appropriate amine using a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxyborohydride in a solvent such as dichloroethane at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours gives vii which when coupled with an appropriate boronic acid in a solvent such as ethanol or toluene at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours in the presence of a Pd 0 catalyst gives viii .

The final two steps of the above synthesis may also be reversed the Suzuki coupling in that instance being the penultimate step and the reductive amination the final step. Alternatively compound iii may be synthesized by the procedure in Example 2.

Compound iii from Reaction Scheme A1 may also be synthesized by condensing and cyclizing allyl isocyanate viii and appropriate aminoalkene ester ix such as ethyl 3 aminocrotonate in a solvent such as toluene or DMF at 25 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours.

Cyclization of xi and xii in a solvent such as ethanol or DMF at 25 to 150 C. for 1 to 24 hours gives oxazime xiii . Amination of xiii in a solvent such as DMF or ethanol at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours yielded uracil derivative xiv . Alkylation of xiv by an appropriate alkyl bromide in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or sodium hydroxide in a solvent such as THF or DMF at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours gives substituted uracil xvi . The order of the reaction scheme may be changed allowing oxazine xiii to first be alkylated under conditions above to xv followed by amination to the product xvi .

Compound xvii or xviii react with an appropriately substituted isocyanate in a solvent such as toluene or chloroform at room temperature to 100 C. for 1 24 hours as an alternative synthesis to intermediate oxazine xv . Amination with a substituted amine in a solvent such as DMF or ethanol at a temperature of 25 to 100 C. for a period of 1 24 hours results in product uracil xvi .

Intermediate xvi may be brominated using a brominating agent such as N bromosuccinimide or bromine in a solvent such as acetic acid or chloroform at 0 to 100 C. for a period of 1 24 hours to yield bromo compound ixx . The bromo compound can undergo various palladium catalyzed cross coupling reactions. Compound ixx taken in solvent such as ethanol or THF under nitrogen atmosphere using an appropriate Pd 0 catalyst such as tetrakis triphenylphosphine Pd 0 may be reacted for 1 24 hours at 25 to 150 C. with either an aryl boronic acid ArB OH where Ar is substituted aryl or heteroaryl to yield product xx or with a substituted vinyl boronic acid to give compound xxi . Compound ixx taken in solvent such as ethanol or THF using an appropriate Pd 0 catalyst in the presence of carbon monoxide and boronic acid yields xxiv after 1 24 hours at 0 to 150 C. Again using Pd 0 chemistry compound xxiii is synthesized in a solvent such as THF or dioxane from the alkylation of ixx with an appropriate metal halide reagent for 1 24 hours at 0 to 150 C. Compound ixx in the presence of a substituted acetylene Pd 0 catalyst metal halide such as CuI and base such as triethylamine in an appropriate solvent such as acetonitrile or DMF at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours gives alkyne xxii . Alkynyl uracil xxii may be selectively reduced to the alkene using a catalyst such as palladium BaSOunder hydrogen atmosphere in solvent such as ethyl acetate or methanol to give xxi .

Vinyl ester xxvi and xxv can be cyclized in a solvent such as DMF or EtOH at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours to give xxvii . Alkylation of xxvii with an appropriate alkyl or aryl halide in a solvent such as DMF or THF in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or sodium hydroxide for 1 24 hours at 0 to 150 C. gives xxviii .

Vinyl ester xxvi can be condensed with a substituted amine in a solvent such as DMF or ethanol at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours to give xxix . Cyclization of xxix with an isocyanate isothiocyanate or other appropriate compound in a solvent such as DMF THF or dioxane with or without a base such as sodium ethoxide or sodium hydride at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours gives product xxviii .

Compound xxx may be alkylated by an appropriate alkyl halide in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or sodium hydroxide in a solvent such as THF or DMF at 0 to 50 C. for 1 24 hours to give xxxi which under further alkylation by a second alkyl halide gives product xxviii .

Compound xxxi may be alkylated by an appropriate alkyl halide in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or sodium hydroxide in a solvent such as THF or DMF at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours to give xxxii . The terminal double bond is oxidized using an appropriate oxidizing reagent such as osmium tetroxide or sodium periodate in solvent such as THF and or water for 1 24 hours at 0 to 100 C. to give aldehyde xxxiii . Reductive amination of xxxiii with an appropriate amine using a reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as dichloroethane or acetonitrile at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours gives xxviii .

Compound xxxii can be oxidized to the alcohol xxxiv first by hydroboration with a borane complex in a solvent such as THF followed by oxidation with ozone or hydrogen peroxide in a solvent such as methanol ethanol and or water at 25 to 100 C. for a period of 0.5 24 hours. Treatment of xxxiv with mesyl or tosyl chloride in methylene chloride with a base such as triethylamine or pyridine at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours followed by reaction with an amine in a solvent such as DMF or toluene for 0.5 12 hours at 25 to 100 C. gives xxviii .

Compound xxxi can be alkylated with an appropriate ester in a solvent such as DMF or ethanol in the presence of a base such as sodium hydride or sodium ethoxide at a temperature of 25 to 150 C. for a period of 1 24 hours to give xxxv . Ester xxxv in a solvent such as chloroform or benzene with substituted amine and Lewis acid such as triethylaluminum gives amide xxxvi after 1 24 hours at 0 to 100 C. Reduction of xxxvi with lithium aluminum hydride or borane complex in a solvent such as THF or ether at 0 to 100 C. for 1 12 hours gives product xxviii .

Thiouracil compound xxxvii in the presence of a substituted sulfonylisocyanate in a solvent such as benzene or toluene for 1 48 hours at 25 to 125 C. gives sulfonamide xxxviii . Thiouracil xxxvii chlorinated by thionyl chloride or phosphorous oxychloride at 25 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours followed by amination with an appropriate amine in a solvent such as benzene or toluene at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours gives compound xxxix .

Substituted amine in the presence of urea or thiourea is heated at a temperature of 50 125 C. for 0.5 to 12 hours to give xl . Cyclization of xl with diketene at 50 150 C. in acidic media such as acetic or formic acid for 5 minutes to 4 hours gives a mixture of isomers xli and xlii . Halogenation of xlii using a halogenating reagent such as N halosuccinimide in chloroform or bromine in acetic acid for 5 minutes to 24 hours gives halogenated product xliii .

Uracil compound xliii and an appropriately substituted alcohol are condensed under Mitsonobu conditions such as diethyl or dibutyl axodicarboxylate and triphenylphosphine in a solvent such as THF at 0 100 C. for 0.5 to 10 hours to give compound xliv . A Suzuki coupling of xliv and a boronic acid or boronic acid ester in a solvent such as ethanol or toluene at 25 to 150 C. for 1 24 hours in the presence of a Pd 0 catalyst gives xlv . Deprotection of the protected amine gives xlvi . Reductive amination of xlvi with an appropriate aldehyde in a solvent such as methylene chloride or acetonitrile using a reducing agent such as sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium borohydride at 0 to 100 C. for 1 24 hours gives xlvii .

Keto or aldehyde xlviii in the presence of chlorosulfonylisocyanate or chlorocarbonylisocyanate yields oxaz 2 4 dione xlix after stirring for 1 24 hours at 0 C. to 75 C. in a solvent such as THF or ether. Mitsonobu condensation with an appropriate alcohol gives 1 which when in the presence of amine RNHat room temperature to 125 C. with or without solvent such as DMF or catalyst such as acetic or hydrochloric acid for to 24 hours gives xlvii.

The compounds of the present invention may generally be utilized as the free acid or free base. Alternatively the compounds of this invention may be used in the form of acid or base addition salts. Acid addition salts of the free amino compounds of the present invention may be prepared by methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic acids. Suitable organic acids include maleic fumaric benzoic ascorbic succinic methanesulfonic acetic trifluoroacetic oxalic propionic tartaric salicylic citric gluconic lactic mandelic cinnamic aspartic stearic palmitic glycolic glutamic and benzenesulfonic acids. Suitable inorganic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and nitric acids. Base addition salts included those salts that form with the carboxylate anion and include salts formed with organic and inorganic cations such as those chosen from the alkali and alkaline earth metals for example lithium sodium potassium magnesium barium and calcium as well as the ammonium ion and substituted derivatives thereof for example dibenzylammonium benzylammonium 2 hydroxyethylammonium and the like . Thus the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of structure I is intended to encompass any and all acceptable salt forms.

In addition prodrugs are also included within the context of this invention. Prodrugs are any covalently bonded carriers that release a compound of structure I in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a patient. Prodrugs are generally prepared by modifying functional groups in a way such that the modification is cleaved either by routine manipulation or in vivo yielding the parent compound. Prodrugs include for example compounds of this invention wherein hydroxy amine or sulfhydryl groups are bonded to any group that when administered to a patient cleaves to form the hydroxy amine or sulfhydryl groups. Thus representative examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol and amine functional groups of the compounds of structure I . Further in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH esters may be employed such as methyl esters ethyl esters and the like.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I may have chiral centers and may occur as racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. All such isomeric forms are included within the present invention including mixtures thereof. Compounds of structure I may also possess axial chirality which may result in atropisomers. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of the compounds of structure I may exist as polymorphs which are included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of structure I may also form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Such solvates are similarly included within the scope of this invention.

The effectiveness of a compound as a GnRH receptor antagonist may be determined by various assay methods. Suitable GnRH antagonists of this invention are capable of inhibiting the specific binding of GnRH to its receptor and antagonizing activities associated with GnRH. For example inhibition of GnRH stimulated LH release in immature rats may be measured according to the method of Vilchez Martinez 96 1130 1134 1975 . Briefly twenty five day old male Spraque Dawley rats are administered an GnRH antagonist in saline or other suitable formulation by oral gavage sub cutaneous injection or intravenous injection. This is followed by subcutaneous injection of 200 ng GnRH in 0.2 ml saline. Thirty minutes after the last injection the animals are decapitated and trunk blood collected. After centrifugation the separated plasma is stored at 20 C. until determination of the LH and FSH by radioimmunoassay. Other techniques for determining the activity of GnRH receptor antagonists are well known in the field such as the use of cultured pituitary cells for measuring GnRH activity Vale et al. 91 562 572 1972 and a technique for measuring radioligand binding to rat pituitary membranes Perrin et al. 23 44 51 1983 .

For example effectiveness of a compound as a GnRH receptor antagonist may be determined by one or more of the following assays.

Anterior pituitary glands are collected from 7 week old female Sprague Dawley rats and the harvested glands digested with collagenase in a dispersion flask for 1.5 hr at 37 C. After collagenase digestion the glands are further digested with neuraminidase for 9 min at 37 C. The digested tissue is then washed with 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5A medium and the washed cells suspended in 3 FBS 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5A medium and plated into 96 well tissue culture plates at a cell density of 40 000 cells per well in 200 l medium. The cells are then incubated at 37 C. for 3 days. One pituitary gland normally yields one 96 well plate of cells which can be used for assaying three compounds. For assay of a GnRH antagonist the incubated cells are first washed with 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5A medium once followed by addition of the test sample plus 1 nM GnRH in 200 l 0.1 BSA McCoy s 5A medium in triplicate wells. Each sample is assayed at 5 dose levels to generate a dose response curve for determination of its potency on the inhibition of GnRH stimulated LH and or FSH release. After 4 hr incubation at 37 C. the medium is harvested and the level of LH and or FSH secreted into the medium determined by RIA.

For determination of the LH levels each sample medium is assayed in duplicates and all dilutions are done with RIA buffer 0.01M sodium phosphate buffer 0.15M NaCl 1 BSA 0.01 NaN3 pH 7.5 and the assay kit is obtained from the Nation Hormone and Pituitary Program supported by NIDDK. To a 12 75 mm polyethylene test tube is added 100 l of sample medium diluted 1 5 or rLH standard in RIA buffer and 100 l of 125I labeled rLH 30 000 cpm plus 100 l of rabbit anti rLH antibody diluted 1 187 500 and 100 l RIA buffer. The mixture is incubated at room temperature over night. In the next day 100 l of goat anti rabbit IgG diluted 1 20 and 100 l of normal rabbit serum diluted 1 1000 are added and the mixture incubated for another 3 hr at room temperature. The incubated tubes are then centrifuged at 3 000 rpm for 30 min and the supernatant removed by suction. The remaining pellet in the tubes is counted in a gamma counter. RIA of FSH is done in a similar fashion as the assay for LH with substitution of the LH antibody by the FSH antibody diluted 1 30 000 and the labeled rLH by the labeled rFSH.

The GnRH analog is labeled by the chloramine T method. To 10 g of peptide in 20 l of 0.5M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.6 is added 1 mCi of Na125I followed by 22.5 g chloramine T and the mixture vortexed for 20 sec. The reaction is stopped by the addition of 60 g sodium metabisulfite and the free iodine is removed by passing the iodinated mixture through a C 8 Sep Pak cartridge Millipore Corp. Milford Mass. . The peptide is eluted with a small volume of 80 acetonitrile water. The recovered labeled peptide is further purified by reverse phase HPLC on a Vydac C 18 analytical column The Separations Group Hesperia Calif. on a Beckman 334 gradient HPLC system using a gradient of acetonitrile in 0.1 TFA. The purified radioactive peptide is stored in 0.1 BSA 20 acetonitrile 0.1 TFA at 80 C. and can be used for up to 4 weeks.

Cells stably or transiently transfected with GnRH receptor expression vectors are harvested resuspended in 5 sucrose and homogenized using a polytron homogenizer 2 15 sec . Nucleii are removed by centrifugation 3000 g for 5 min. and the supernatant centrifuged 20 000 g for 30 min 4 C. to collect the membrane fraction. The final membrane preparation is resuspended in binding buffer 10 mM Hepes pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl and 0.1 BSA and stored at 70 C. Binding reactions are performed in a Millipore MultiScreen 96 well filtration plate assembly with polyethylenimine coated GF C membranes. The reaction is initiated by adding membranes 40 ug protein in 130 ul binding buffer to 50 ul of I labeled GnRH peptide 100 000 cpm and 20 ul of competitor at varying concentrations. The reaction is terminated after 90 minutes by application of vacuum and washing 2 with phosphate buffered saline. Bound radioactivity is measured using 96 well scintillation counting Packard Topcount or by removing the filters from the plate and direct gamma counting. Kvalues are calculated from competition binding data using non linear least squares regression using the Prism software package GraphPad Software .

Activity of GnRH receptor antagonists are typically calculated from the ICas the concentration of a compound necessary to displace 50 of the radiolabeled ligand from the GnRH receptor and is reported as a K value calculated by the following equation 

As mentioned above the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention have utility over a wide range of therapeutic applications and may be used to treat a variety of sex hormone related conditions in both men and women as well as mammals in general. For example such conditions include endometriosis uterine fibroids polycystic ovarian disease hirsutism precocious puberty gonadal steroid dependent neoplasia such as cancers of the prostate breast and ovary gonadotrophe pituitary adenomas sleep apnea irritable bowel syndrome premenstrual syndrome benign prostatic hypertrophy contraception and infertility e.g. assisted reproductive therapy such as in vitro fertilization .

The compounds of this invention are also useful as an adjunct to treatment of growth hormone deficiency and short stature and for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosis.

In addition the compounds are useful in combination with androgens estrogens progesterones and antiestrogens and antiprogestogens for the treatment of endometriosis fibroids and in contraception as well as in combination with an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor an angiotensin II receptor antagonist or a renin inhibitor for the treatment of uterine fibroids. The compounds may also be used in combination with bisphosphonates and other agents for the treatment and or prevention of disturbances of calcium phosphate and bone metabolism and in combination with estrogens progesterones and or androgens for the prevention or treatment of bone loss or hypogonadal symptoms such as hot flashes during therapy with a GnRH antagonist.

In another embodiment of the invention pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more GnRH receptor antagonists are disclosed. For the purposes of administration the compounds of the present invention may be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a GnRH receptor antagonist of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent. The GnRH receptor antagonist is present in the composition in an amount that is effective to treat a particular disorder that is in an amount sufficient to achieve GnRH receptor antagonist activity and preferably with acceptable toxicity to the patient. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may include a GnRH receptor antagonist in an amount from 0.1 mg to 250 mg per dosage depending upon the route of administration and more typically from 1 mg to 60 mg. Appropriate concentrations and dosages can be readily determined by one skilled in the art.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluents are familiar to those skilled in the art. For compositions formulated as liquid solutions acceptable carriers and or diluents include saline and sterile water and may optionally include antioxidants buffers bacteriostats and other common additives. The compositions can also be formulated as pills capsules granules or tablets which contain in addition to a GnRH receptor antagonist diluents dispersing and surface active agents binders and lubricants. One skilled in this art may further formulate the GnRH receptor antagonist in an appropriate manner and in accordance with accepted practices such as those disclosed in Gennaro Ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1990.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating sex hormone related conditions as discussed above. Such methods include administering of a compound of the present invention to a warm blooded animal in an amount sufficient to treat the condition. In this context treat includes prophylactic administration. Such methods include systemic administration of a GnRH receptor antagonist of this invention preferably in the form of a pharmaceutical composition as discussed above. As used herein systemic administration includes oral and parenteral methods of administration. For oral administration suitable pharmaceutical compositions of GnRH receptor antagonists include powders granules pills tablets and capsules as well as liquids syrups suspensions and emulsions. These compositions may also include flavorants preservatives suspending thickening and emulsifying agents and other pharmaceutically acceptable additives. For parental administration the compounds of the present invention can be prepared in aqueous injection solutions which may contain in addition to the GnRH receptor antagonist buffers antioxidants bacteriostats and other additives commonly employed in such solutions.

The following example is provided for purposes of illustration not limitation. In summary the GnRH receptor antagonists of this invention may be assayed by the general methods disclosed above while the following Examples disclose the synthesis of representative compounds of this invention.

To allylurea 25 g 0.25 mol in ethanol 10 mL was added ethyl acetoacetate 31.86 mL 0.25 mol and 10 drops conc. HCl. After 12 days at room temperature concentration gave an oil which was dissolved in MeOH. KOH 22.5 g 0.34 mol was added and the solution refluxed for 1 hour. After neutralization the resulting solid 1 was collected. Yield 2.7 g 7 . NMR CDCl 2.16 3H s 4.52 2H d 5.18 1H d 5.23 1H d 5.60 1H s 5.82 5.93 1H m 10.3 1H s .

To 1 2.6 g 15.7 mmol in DMF 20 mL was added tetrabutylammoniumfluoride 25 mmol and 2 6 difluorobenzyl bromide 4.14 g 20 mmol . After 2 days stirring at room temperature column chromatography using ethyl acetate hexane gave 2.7 g 59 yield of 2. MS 293 MH .

To a solution of 2 1.46 g 5 mmol in THF 20 mL and HO 10 mL was added osmium tetroxide 200 mg and NaIO 3.2 g 15 mmol . After 2 hr another 1 g of NaIOwas added. Ethyl acetate and HO were added and the layers separated. Evaporation of the organic layer gave 3 as a crude solid 1.0 g 68 . MS 295 MH .

3 294 mg 1 mmol was dissolved in acetic acid and bromine 1.2 eq was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hr evaporated and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc washed with 1N KOH solution and concentrated to give 4 as a crude oil 295 mg 79 . MS 373 375 MH . NMR CDCl 2.55 3H s 4.87 2H d 5.33 2H s 7.26 7.33 3H 2m 9.59 1h d .

To 4 295 mg 0.8 mmol in dichloroethane was added 2 methylaminoethyl pyridine 200 mg 1.5 mmol and NaBH OAc 636 mg 3 mmol . After overnight stirring the reaction mixture was concentrated dissolved in EtOAc washed with HO and purified by prep TLC to give 190 mg of 5 48 .

5 150 mg 0.3 mmol 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 92 mg 0.6 mmol KCO 100 mg 0.72 mmol and Pd PPh 20 mg in HO 5 mL and toluene 10 mL was heated in a sealed tube at 100 C. for 12 hr. Purification by HPLC gave 40 mg of 6 Cpd. No. 1 as the TFA salt 21 yield . MS 521 MH NMR CDCl 2.14 3H s 3.02 3H s 3.50 2H m 3.63 2H m 3.71 2H m 3.81 3H s 4.37 2H m 5.25 2H s 6.81 6.83 2H m 6.88 6.95 3H m 7.28 7.34 2H m 7.63 1H m 7.89 1H d 8.13 1H t 8.62 1H br s .

Following the procedures as set forth in Example 1 above the compounds of the following Table 1 were prepared.

By reversing Step 1E and Step 1F in Example 1 where the boronic acid coupling is performed followed by the reductive amination the compounds of the following Tables 2 7 were also prepared.

2 6 Difluorobenzylamine 25.0 g 0.175 mol was added dropwise to a stirring solution of urea 41.92 g 0.699 mol in water 70 mL and concentrated HCl 20.3 mL . The resulting mixture was refluxed for 2.5 hours after which time it was cooled to room temperature. The solids that formed were filtered under vacuum and were washed thoroughly with water. After drying under vacuum the solids were recrystallized from EtOAc to yield the product 1 as light white needles 24.0 g 0.129 mol 74 .

Diketene 9.33 mL 0.121 mol was added in one portion to a refluxing solution of 2 6 difluorobenzyl urea 1 20.46 g 0.110 mol and glacial acetic acid 110 mL . After 40 minutes at reflux the mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured onto water 600 mL . The precipitate was collected by filtration washed with water and dried under vacuum to yield a 1 3 mixture of isomers 2 and 3 respectively 19.07 g 0.076 mol 69 . The mixture was recrystallized from acetonitrile 600 mL to give the pure title compound 3 as white prisms 1crop 7.85 g 0.031 mol 28 .

1 2 6 Difluorobenzyl 6 methyl uracil 3 7.56 g 30 mmol was suspended in glacial acetic acid 100 mL and to that mixture bromine 1.93 mL 37.5 mmol was added dropwise. The resulting orange solution turned into a suspension in about 5 minutes. After stirring for 1 hour at room temperature the precipitate was filtered under vacuum and washed with water. The solids were triturated with diethyl ether and dried under vacuum to give 4 8.6 g 0.026 mmol 87 .

2 BOC S amino 3 phenyl 1 propanol 2.51 g 10 mmol and triphenylphosphine 3.14 g 12 mmol were added to a solution of 5 bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyl uracil 1 3.31 g 10 mmol in THF 50 mL . Di tert butyl azodicarboxylate 2.76 g 12 mmol was added in several portions over 5 minutes. After 5 minutes the reaction mixture was clear. After 1 hour the reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by silica cartridge column hexane EtOAc as elutant . Concentration of like fractions gave 6.8 g of an oily material which was precipitated from hexane to yield product 2 4.95 g 88 .

Compound 2 4.95 g 8.78 mmol and sodium carbonate 2.12 g 20 mmol were suspended in toluene 50 mL and dimethoxyethane 10 mL . Water 20 mL was added and Nwas bubbled through the reaction mixture. After 5 minutes both layers were clear and Pd OAc 394 mg 0.2 eq and triphenylphosphine 921 mg 0.4 eq were added. The boronic acid 1.7 g 10 mmol was added and the reaction vessel was sealed and heated overnight at 100 C. The organic layer was separated evaporated and purified by silica chromatography. Product containing fractions were combined and evaporated to give 3 as a brown oil 1.5 g 28 yield .

Compound 3 1.5 g 2.5 mmol in trifluoroacetic acid dichloromethane 1 1 50 mL was heated for 4 hours. Evaporation gave a red oil which was purified by reverse phase prep HPLC using water CHCN with 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid as elutant. The product containing fractions were concentrated and lyophilized to give product 4 0.56 g 44 MH 510 .

1 2 6 Difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 6 methyl 5 bromouracil 1 2.58 g 4.7 mmol tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 550 mg 0.47 mmmol 4 hydroxyphenyl boronic acid tetrahydropyran ether 1.25 g 5.7 mmol and barium hydroxide 38 mL of 0.14M solution 5.2 mmol in a benzene ethanol dimethoxyethane solution 10 1 11 90 mL was heated at 90 C. in a pressure vessel under Natmosphere overnight. The organic layer was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography hexanes ethyl acetate as elutant to give 3.0 g of 2 as an off white foam.

A mixture of 2 3.0 g 4.6 mmol and pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 231 mg 0.92 mmol in ethanol 92 mL was stirred at 45 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in methylene chloride and HO. The organic layer was concentrated and the residue purified by silica gel chromatography using hexanes ethyl acetate as elutant to give 2.1 g of compound 3 as a yellow foam.

Substituted uracil 3 50 mg 0.089 mmol p tolylboronic acid 18 mg 0.133 mmol copper II acetate 16 mg 0.089 mmol and triethylamine 0.06 mL 0.445 mmol in CHCl 1 mL were stirred for 3 days at room temperature. The reaction mixture was purified by silica gel chromatography using 1 MeOH in CHClto give 30 mg of protected product. This material was dissolved in CHCl 1 mL with 5 drops of trifluoroacetic acid. Purification by reverse phase HPLC MS gave 5.0 mg of product 4 m z CI 554 MH .

To a stirred solution of 1 306 mg 0.55 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 15 mL at room temperature was added aqueous lithium hydroxide solution 15 mL of a 1 M solution 15 mmol . After 2 h most of the tetrahydrofuran was removed in vacuo and the resulting solution was acidified to pH 4 with 10 aqueous citric acid solution . The resultant precipitate was extracted into ethyl acetate 2 15 mL and the combined organic layer was washed with water brine and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed in vacuo to give 2 283 mg 94 as a yellow oil which was not purified further 300 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.34 2 H m Ar 6.73 6.95 5 H m Ar 5.74 1 H brd J 6 NH 5.37 1 H d J 16 CHHAr 5.22 1 H d J 16 CHHAr 4.62 1 H brs CHN 4.32 4.49 2 H m CHN 3.80 3 H s OCH 2.17 3 H s CH and 1.42 9 H s 3 CH m z CI 446 MH Boc 100 .

To a stirred solution of 2 20 mg 0.037 mmol benzylamine 15 L 0.14 mmol 1 hydroxy benzotriazole hydrate 9 mg 0.066 mmol and triethylamine 10 L 0.074 mmol in anhydrous N N dimethylformamide 1 mL at room temperature was added 1 3 dimethylamino propyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 11 mg 0.056 mmol . After 10 h the reaction mixture was poured into water ca. 5 mL and the resulting precipitate was extracted into ethyl acetate ca. 5 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed in vacuo to give a yellow oil which was redissolved in a mixture of dichloromethane 1 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 0.5 mL 6.5 mmol and stirred at room temperature. After 1 h the solvent was removed in vacuo to give a yellow oil which was purified by reverse phase HPLC MS to give 3 6 mg 30 as a colorless solid m z CI 535.2 MH 100 .

n Butyl lithium 20 mL 2.5M was added to a solution of tetramethylpiperidine 8.44 mL 50 mmol in THF 125 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1.5 hours. 2 Fluoroanisole 6.31 g 50 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 8 hours at 78 C. Trimethyl borate 6.17 mL 55 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm slowly to room temperature overnight. The mixture was poured into 1N HCl 250 mL . Extraction with EtOAc followed by evaporation gave a sticky solid which was triturated with hexanes to give product 2.19 g 26 yield .

Di t butyl dicarbonate 6.76 g 31 mmol was added portionwise to a stirred solution of S 1 amino 2 propanol and triethylamine 4.4 mL 31.5 mmol in CHCl 75 mL at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour at 0 C. and for 30 minutes at room temperature. Evaporation gave product 1 which was used without further purification.

5 Bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyluracil 3.31 g 10 mmol was suspended in THF 200 mL . Compound 1 1.84 g 10.5 mmol and triphenylphosphine 3.93 g 15 mmol were added and the mixture was stirred. DEAD 2.36 mL 15 mmol was added and the reaction mixture became a solution. After stirring overnight the volatiles were removed and the residue was chromatographed on silica using EtOAc hexanes as elutant to give white solid 2 4.57 g 94 yield .

A solution of N t butyloxycarbonyl D alaninol 1.75 g 10 mmol in anhydrous THF 15 mL was treated with 5 bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyluracil 3.31 g 10 mmol and triphenylphosphine 3.15 g 12 mmol at ambient temperature then di tert butylazodicarboxylate 2.76 g 12 mmol was introduced. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 hours and volatiles were evaporated. The residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO HO and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by flash chromatography silica 1 2 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 1 4.69 g 96.1 MS CI m z 388.0 390.0 MH Boc .

To compound 1 1.0 g 2.05 mmol in benzene EtOH ethylene glycol dimethyl ether 20 2 22 mL was added 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 435 mg 2.56 mmol and saturated Ba OH water 0.5 M 15 mL . The reaction mixture was deoxygenated with Nfor 10 min tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 242 mg 0.21 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight under the protection of N. The reaction mixture was partitioned between brine and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated purified by flash chromatography silica 40 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 2 450 mg 41.2 MS CI m z 434.2 MH Boc .

TFA 2 mL was added to a solution of 2 267 mg 0.5 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO water and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by reverse phase HPLC C 18 column 15 75 acetonitrile water to give compound 3 MS CI m z 434.2 MH .

2 Pyridinecarboxyaldehyde 80 mg 0.75 mmol was added to a solution of 3 267 mg 0.5 mmol in MeOH 5 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 10 hours. NaBH 56 mg 1.5 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was kept at ambient temperature for 10 minutes. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO water and dichloromethane. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by reverse phase HPLC C 18 column 15 75 acetonitrile water to give compound 4 MS CI m z 525.20 MH .

To a solution of 4 20 mg 0.04 mmol in dichloroethane 2 mL was added 1 drop of formaldehyde 37 solution in water and NaBH OAc 16 mg 0.08 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between water and dichloromethane. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by reverse phase HPLC C 18 column 15 75 acetonitrile water to give compound 5 MS CI m z 539.20 MH .

A solution of N t butyloxycarbonyl L cyclohexylglycine 2.0 g 7.77 mmol in anhydrous THF 10 mL was cooled down to 0 C. Borane solution 1 M in THF 15.5 mL 15.5 mmol was added slowly and then warmed to ambient temperature and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 h. The reaction was quenched with MeOH 5 mL volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between water and EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with saturated NaHCO water and brine and then was dried sodium sulfate and evaporated to give compound 1 1.26 g 66.7 MS CI m z 144.20 MH Boc .

A solution of 1 638 mg 2.62 mmol in THF 10 mL was treated with 5 bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 6 methyluracil 869 mg 2.62 mmol and triphenylphosphine 1.03 g 3.93 mmol at ambient temperature then di tert butylazodicarboxylate 906 mg 3.93 mmol was introduced. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 h and volatiles were evaporated. The residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO HO and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by flash chromatography silica 25 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 2 1.39 g 95.4 MS CI m z456.10 458.10 MH Boc .

Compound 2 1.0 g 1.79 mmol in benzene EtOH ethylene glycol dimethyl ether 20 2 22 mL was added 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 382 mg 2.24 mmol and saturated Ba OH water 0.5 M 15 mL . The reaction mixture was deoxygenated with Nfor 10 min tetrakis triphenylphosine palladium 0 208 mg 0.18 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight under the protection of N. The reaction mixture was partitioned between brine and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by flash chromatography silica 30 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 3 348 mg 32.3 MS CI m z 502.20 MH Boc .

A solution of 3 300 mg 0.5 mmol in dichloromethane 2 mL was added TFA 2 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO water and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by reverse phase HPLC C 18 column 15 75 ACN water to give compound 4 MS CI m z 502.20 MH .

To a stirred solution of 2 fluorophenylacetone 1 7.6 g 50 mmol in ether 50 mL was added dropwise chlorosulfonylisocyanate CSI 16.2 g 115 mmol at room temperature. The yellow solution was stirred overnight poured into ice 100 g and basified with sodium carbonate. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL and the extract was washed with water and brine dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give a yellow residue 9.5 g proton NMR about 70 product . The crude product was crystallized from ether hexanes to give compound 2 as a yellow solid 3.6 g 33 yield H NMR CDCl 2.14 s 3H 7.16 t J 9.0 Hz 1H 7.24 m 2H 7.41 m 1H 9.20 brs 1H .

DEAD 348 mg 1.2 mmol was added into a solution of oxazine 2 221 mg 1.0 mmol triphenylphosphine 314 mg 1.2 mmol and N Boc R phenylglysinol 249 mg 1.05 mmol in dry THF 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours concentrated and purified by chromatography on silica gel with 1 3 ethyl acetate hexanes to give the product 3 380 mg 87 as a white solid H NMR CDCl 1.39 s 9H 2.14 s 3H 4.02 m 1H 4.28 m 1H 5.21 brs 1H 5.30 m 1H 7.38 m 9H MS 341 MH BuOCO .

6 Methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl oxaz 2 4 dione 3 30 mg was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL at room temperature for 30 minutes. Concentration in vacuo gave the title compound 4 as a colorless oil in quantitative yield H NMR CDCl 2.05 2.08 s 3H 4.10 m 1H 4.45 m 1H 4.62 m 1H 7.15 m 3H 7.40 m 6H 8.20 brs 3H MS 341 MH .

A mixture of 6 methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl oxaz 2 4 dione 3 29 mg and 2 methoxybenzylamine 0.15 mL was heated in a sealed reacti vial at 100 C. for 1 hour. Chromatography on silica gel with 1 2 ethyl acetate hexanes gave compound 5 as a colorless oil H NMR CDCl 1.40 s 9H 2.04 s 3H 3.87 s 3H 4.18 m 1H 4.44 m 1H 5.22 m 2H 5.65 brs 1H 5.78 m 1H 6.85 7.42 m 13H MS 460 MH BuOCO .

The following protected intermediates were made using the same procedure but substituting different amines for 2 methoxybenzylamine. Acetic acid may be used to catalyze the reaction.

6 Methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylethyl 1 2 methoxybenzyl uracil 5 20 mg was treated with trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL at room temperature for 30 minutes. Concentration in vacuo gave the product 6 as a colorless oil in quantitative yield H NMR CDCl 2.04 s 3H 3.82 3.85 s 3H 4.20 m 1H 4.62 m 2H 5.10 m 2H 6.82 7.40 m 13H 8.05 brs 3H MS 460 MH .

6 Methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 1 2 chlorobenzyl uracil trifluoroacetic acid salt

6 Methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 1 2 methylbenzyl uracil trifluoroacetic acid salt

6 Methyl 5 2 fluorophenyl 3 2 R amino 2 phenylethyl 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl uracil trifluoroacetic acid salt

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tert butylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 bromo 6 methyluracil 1 500 mg 0.91 mmol tributyl ethoxyvinyl tin 0.39 mL and PhP Pd 0 105 mg in dioxane 5 mL was heated at 100 C. under nitrogen for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the crude product 2 was used for next step. MS 442 MH Boc .

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 1 ethoxyvinyl 6 methyluracil 2 490 mg in THF 10 mL was treated with 2.5M aqueous HCl 3 mL and stirred at r.t. for one hour. The reaction mixture was neutralized with NaHCOand concentrated in vacuo to remove THF. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed with water and brine dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to give a brown solid. Chromatography on silica gel with 1 2 to 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes gave compound 3 as a white solid 227 mg 50 yield 1H NMR 1.37 s 9H 2.38 s 3H 2.58 s 3H 4.12 dd J 4.2 10.0 Hz 1H 4.65 dd J 6.5 10.0 Hz 1H 5.20 m 1H 5.40 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.49 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.58 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 6.92 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.38 m 6H MS 414 MH Boc .

1 2 6 Difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 acetyl 6 methyluracil 3 44 mg was suspended in DMFDMA 1.0 mL and heated at 50 C. for 1 hour. The product was purified on silica gel with 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes to give compound 4 as a yellow oil 1H NMR 1.39 s 9H 2.36 s 3H 2.84 s 6H 4.05 m 1H 4.30 m 1H 4.66 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.03 m 1H 5.20 d J 12 Hz 1H 5.46 d J 12 Hz 1H 5.84 d J 7 Hz 1H 6.64 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 6.87 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.20 7.40 m 6H MS 596 MH .

A mixture of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 3 dimethylamino 1 oxopropenyl 6 methyluracil 4 95 mg hydroxylamine hydrochloride 150 mg sodium carbonate 18 mg in methanol 5 mL was acidified with acetic acid to pH 4. The mixture was then heated at 120 C. for 1.5 hours cooled down to r.t. filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give the protected product. MS 539 MH . The protected product was dissolved in dichloromethane 2 mL treated with TFA 1 mL and stirred at r.t. for 1 hour. Concentration in vacuo followed by purification on silica gel eluting with 1 aq. NHOH in ethyl acetate gave product 5 MS 439 MH 

1H NMR CDOD 3.05 s 3H 4.70 m 1H 4.55 m 2H 5.48 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.60 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 7.00 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.30 7.65 m 7H 8.50 d J 6.0 Hz 1H .

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 1 ethoxyvinyl 6 methyluracil 1 3.68 g 6.8 mmol in THF 120 mL and water 120 mL was treated with N bromosuccinimide 2.3 g at r.t. and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours. THF was removed in vacuo and the product which precipitated on standing was collected by filtration and was washed with ether to give white solid 2 1.6 g 40 1H NMR 1.39 s 9H 2.40 s 3H 4.04 dd J 2.0 7.0 Hz 1H 4.36 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 4.10 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.56 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 55.50 m 1H 5.24 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.40 brs 1H 5.50 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 6.94 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.36 m 6H MS 492 MH .

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 bromoacetyl 6 methyluracil 100 mg 0.17 mmol and thioacetamide 30 mg 0.4 mmol in ethanol 2 mL was heated at 80 C. in a sealed reaction vessel for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo to give an oil and LCMS indicated protected product MS 569 MH . The protected product was dissolved in dichloromethane 2 mL and treated with TFA 1 mL at r.t. for 1 hour and concentrated in vacuo. The product was purified on silica gel eluting with 5 aq. NHOH in ethyl acetate to give yellow solid 3 1H NMR 2.12 s 3H 2.71 s 3H 4.15 4.70 m 3H 5.66 s 2H 7.00 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.30 m 7H MS 469 MH .

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 bromoacetyl 6 methyluracil 2 35 mg and ammonium thioisocyanate 10 mg in ethanol 1 mL was heated at 80 C. in a sealed reaction vessel for 1 hour. Benzylamine 0.2 mL was added and the mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the protected product was dissolved in dichloromethane 1 mL and treated with TFA 1 mL at r.t. for 1 hour. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified on silica gel with 5 aq. NHOH in ethyl acetate to give product 4 as a yellow solid H NMR 2.25 s 3H 4.05 dd J 3.0 7.5 Hz 1H 4.28 dd J 6.5 7.5 Hz 1H 4.42 m 1H 4.44 s 2H 5.32 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 5.36 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 6.54 s 1H 6.92 t J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.20 7.50 m 11H MS 560 MH .

A mixture of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 bromoacetyl 6 methyluracil 2 35 mg and 2 aminopyridine 7 mg in ethanol was heated at 80 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo and the protected product was dissolved in dichloromethane 1 mL and treated with TFA 1 mL at r.t. for 1 hour. After concentration in vacuo the product 5 was purified on preparative HPLC 1H NMR 2.32 s 3H 4.04 m 1H 4.67 m 2H 5.17 d J 16.2 Hz 1H 5.41 d J 16.2 Hz 1H 6.92 t J 8.1 Hz 2H 7.24 7.40 m 7H 7.73 m 1H 7.80 m 1H 8.03 s 1H 8.30 brs 3H 8.44 d J 5.5 Hz 1H MS 488 MH .

A suspension of 5 bromouracil 18.45 g 96.6 mmol in 300 mL of dichloroethane was treated with N O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 48 mL 39.5 g 194 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 3 hr under the nitrogen. The solution was cooled down to ambient temperature 2 6 difluorobenzyl bromide 25 g 120 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. overnight under the protection of nitrogen. The reaction was cooled down quenched with MeOH 15 mL and partitioned between dichloromethane 500 mL and water 250 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine dried sodium sulfate and evaporated to give a solid. The crude product was triturated with ether filtered and washed with ether three times to give compound 1 15.2 g 50 as a white solid MS CI m z 316.90 318.90 MH .

A solution of R N tert butoxycarbonyl 2 phenylglycinol 14.97 g 63.1 mmol in anhydrous THF 300 mL was treated with 5 bromo 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl uracil 1 20 g 63.1 mmol and triphenylphosphine 20.68 g 78.8 mmol at ambient temperature then diisopropylazodicarboxylate 15.52 mL 15.94 g 78.8 mmol in THF 30 mL was introduced via a dropping funnel. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 h and volatiles were evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 25 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 2 31.15 g 92.1 as a white solid MS CI m z 436.0 438.0 MH Boc .

To compound 2 134 mg 0.25 mmol in toluene HO EtOH 6 3.75 0.75 mL was added 2 4 6 trimethylphenyl boronic acid ester 87 mg 1.5 eq KCO 86 mg 2.5 eq and saturated Ba OH water 0.1 mL . The reaction mixture was deoxygenated with Nfor 10 min tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 29 mg 0.1 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. overnight under the protection of N. The reaction mixture was partitioned between brine and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated purified by flash chromatography silica 25 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 3 130 mg as a pale yellow oil.

TFA 3 mL was added to a solution of 3 130 mg 0.22 mmol in dichloromethane 3 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2 hours. Volatiles were evaporated and the residue was partitioned between saturated NaHCO water and EtOAc. The organic layer was dried sodium sulfate evaporated and purified by prep TLC eluting with 5 MeOH in CHClto give compound 4 MS CI m z 476.2 MH .

5 Carbethoxyuracil 5 g 27.15 mmol and N O bis trimethylsilyl acetamide 13.4 mL 2 eq in dichloroethane 35 mL were heated at 80 C. for 2 hours. Difluorobenzyl bromide 8.4 g 1.5 eq was added and the reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was quenched with methanol and partitioned between methylene chloride and sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was triturated with ether to give compound 1 as a white solid 3.26 g .

A solution of R N tert butoxycarbonyl 2 phenylglycinol 316 mg 1.33 mmol in anhydrous THF 30 mL was treated with 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 5 carbethoxyuracil 1 413 mg 1.33 mmol and triphenylphosphine 525 mg 2 mmol at ambient temperature then diisopropylazodicarboxylate 460 mg 2 mmol in THF 5 mL was introduced via a dropping funnel. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 5 h and volatiles were evaporated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica 35 EtOAc hexanes to give compound 2 427 mg as a white foam.

A solution of triethylaluminum 1.9 M in toluene 0.26 mL 0.5 mmol was added to n butylamine 0.1 mL 1 mmol in dichloroethane and the reaction mixture was sealed under nitrogen and stirred for hour. 1 2 6 Difluorobenzyl 3 2R tertbutylcarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 carbethoxyuracil 2 was added and the mixture was stirred at 70 80 C. for 12 hours to give 3. Trifluoroacetic acid 1 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between methylene chloride and sodium carbonate solution. The organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated to give a residue which was purified by prep HPLC to give compound 4 56 mg MH 457 .

1 2 6 Difluorobenzyl 3 2R tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl ethyl 5 bromo 6 methyluracil 1 550 mg 1 mmol was dissolved in THF 10 mL and the solution was cooled to 0 C. Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.0 M in THF 1.3 mL 1.3 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred for 40 minutes at 0 C. Iodomethane 0.093 mL 1.5 mmol was added dropwise and after 30 minutes water was added and the mixture extracted with ethyl acetate. Concentration in vacuo gave compound 2 as a yellow foam.

A solution of 1 2 6 difluorobenzyl 3 4 methyl 2R aminopentyl 5 2 fluoro 3 methoxyphenyl 6 methyluracil 1 75 mg 1H pyrazole 1 carboxamidine hydrochloride 23 mg diisopropylethylamine 21 mg in anhydrous DMF was heated at 40 50 C. overnight 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture was treated with water and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo and the residue was purified on silica gel EtN MeOH CHCl 2 5 93 as elutant to give white solid 2. MS 518 MH .

It will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

