---

title: System and method to customize a telephone
abstract: Methods and apparatus for customizing a telephone are disclosed in which preferred communication services are conveniently accessible to a user, in which a telephone is tailored to the specific requirements of a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549064&OS=09549064&RS=09549064
owner: TP Lab Inc.
number: 09549064
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060828
---
This invention relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to a method to customize a telephone.

With the convergence of voice and data networks and the integration of corresponding services the usage of a telephone is no long confined to conversational communication. A telephone allows a user to use many services including personal communication services such as telephone services conference services voice messaging services and directory services such as yellow page services. Telephones also permit access to and use of information services such as stock quote services weather services traffic condition services and the like commercial services such as fund transfer services movie ticketing services or merchandise ordering services to purchase products or services conduct financial or banking transactions obtain healthcare advice healthcare provider referrals or for hotline connection to his her doctors or nurses to name just a few.

A typical telephone has a display panel and navigation keys to help a user to find and use a service. Due to the many available services the user often has to navigate through many menu displays in order to find a desired service.

The proliferation of the number of communication services available via telephone creates a new problem for a user.

In one example a parent with small children might typically use his telephone for several communication services relating to parenthood and schooling such as obtaining school activity information and quite regularly contacting a pediatric consultation service for childcare questions. Each time he tries to use one of these communication services he must fumble through several levels of display menu in order to find it.

In another example a senior citizen living alone might often use communication services relating to a senior person such as phoning a pharmacy an elderly healthcare inquiry service and a hotline service for medical problems. In a similar fashion this user must go through multiple navigation steps to find the service she needs. This is particularly troublesome when she has a medical emergency and needs to use the hotline service but is unable to locate it in the complex menu.

In another example a company might offer various communication services for its employees with different responsibilities. For instance a receptionist s often used communication services include a company directory service and a service that provides up to date business information for enquiry purpose an office administrator s often used communication services includes a yellow page service and a business travel reservation service and a manager s often used communication services includes a conferencing service and a service that provides ongoing project status. It is important for employees with different responsibilities to be able to conveniently access their often used communication services without having to fumble through complex menus.

Therefore there is a need to provide a method to customize a communication device with often used communication services reflecting a role of a user and devices so customized.

Devices customized to include communication services reflecting the role of a user are provided and methods of providing same.

In one aspect a communication device is provided that can access a communication service over a communication network such as but not limited to a telephone network an Internet Protocol network a wide area network local area network a Virtual Private Network a wired network and a wireless network. The communication network may be a telephone network selected from a Public Switched Telephone Network a corporate telephone network and a Voice over IP network a General Packet Radio Service network a Global System for Mobile Communications network a WiFi network a Code Division Multiple Access One network a CDMA2000 network a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access network a third generation network a CDMA 1 Evolution Data Optimized network a High Speed Downlink Packet Access network and an Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution network.

In one embodiment a communication device in accordance with the present invention includes a capsule associated therewith that can store information relating to the user and or a communication service that could be associated with a user of the communication device. The capsule may include a data file stored in a telephone programming logic in the telephone or the like.

In one embodiment the capsule includes at least one user role description and at least one preferred communication service associated with the at least one user role. Preferably the communication device has associated therewith means for a user to select and use preferred communication services such as but not limited to an input module and or an output module. In another embodiment the information is preselected and stored in the phone at manufacture or by a retailer.

In another embodiment a communication device in accordance with the invention has associated therewith a capsule updater and or a service updater.

Methods for tailoring a telephone to a user are disclosed in which a communication service is associated with at least one attribute of a user. In one embodiment information accessible by the telephone is stored wherein the information identifies at least one communication service and user information. In one embodiment the storage is achieved by inputting information into a capsule associated with the communication device.

In another aspect the invention includes a method of establishing a communication connection between a communication device and a preferred communication service based on at least one attribute of a user including providing a communication device associated with a data storage means including user information and a preferred communication service and initiating a communication session with the preferred communication service through a communication service provider. In one embodiment the communication session is initiated based on the time of day. The communication session may be a voice or data session. In accordance with one aspect data is retrieved by the communication device retrieving from the data storage means wherein the information is applicable to the preferred communication service. The data is sent over a communication session to preferred communication service provider.

Other aspects features advantages etc. will become apparent to one skilled in the art when the description of the invention herein is taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to a person of ordinary skill in the art that these specific details are merely exemplary embodiments of the invention. In some instances well known features may be omitted or simplified so as not to obscure the present invention. Furthermore reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment is not meant to limit the scope of the invention but instead merely provides an example of a particular feature structure or characteristic of the invention described in connection with the embodiment. Insofar as various embodiments are described herein the appearances of the phase in an embodiment in various places in the specification are not meant to refer to a single or same embodiment.

With reference to the drawings wherein like numerals indicate like elements there is shown in in accordance with at least one embodiment a simplified block diagram depicting a user a role a telephone and communication services accessible via telephone .

In accordance with at least one embodiment communication services may be selected from a local telephone service or a long distance telephone service a voice message service an Instant Message IM based or a Voice over IP based voice service a commercial transaction service such as but not limited to a ticketing service or a phone banking service a group call service a hot line telephone service a directory service a yellow page service a reminder service such as an automatic wakeup call service a conference call reminder or an appointment reminder service an information service such as a news headlines service a local weather report service a road condition service a stock quote service or an emergency alert service such as a flood warning service or a child abduction alert service. It will be apparent to those having skill in the art a wide range of services can be considered communications services in accordance with the teachings of the present invention.

User uses telephone for a communication service . In one embodiment the communication service is a preferred communication service and is conducted over a communication connection between telephone and a communication service provider over a communication network . Communication network is operated by a service network provider .

In accordance with one embodiment telephone contains programming or is adapted to be programmed such that it is tailored to the specific requirements of a particular user . By way of illustration the term tailored herein can mean at least one preferred communication service is associated with user . The communication service may be associated with a role or attribute of a user .

In accordance with at least one embodiment user has attributes that can be defined as a role . Communication services are tailored to role in accordance with the methods described herein resulting in at least one preferred communication service being associated with the role of user .

By way of example role may be a social role such as the role of a parent a student a home owner an apartment tenant a hotel guest or a senior citizen a business role such as the role of an office worker a traveling salesman an office worker for insurance industry a marketing manager a real estate agent or a software engineer for a video game company or a role within a business organization such as a role as a manager a technician a salesperson a member of a marketing department or a member of an accounting division to name just a few.

In the example in which role is the role of a working parent a plurality of preferred communication services might include a communication service that provides morning commute information or a bulletin board service that provides school events information.

In an example in which role is the role of a young adult a plurality of preferred communication services might include a communication service that provides local entertainment and restaurant information or a dating service.

In an example in which role is the role of a housewife a plurality of preferred communication services might include a phone banking service or a service that provides childcare information and pediatric advices.

In an example in which role is the role of a high school student a plurality of preferred communication services might include a group chat service for youngsters or a service that provides home work advice.

In an example in which role is the role of a hotel guest a plurality of preferred communication services might include an automatic wakeup call service or a reservation service for hotel restaurants or shows.

In an example in which role is the role of an office worker a plurality of preferred communication services might include a corporate voice messaging service or a corporate conferencing service.

In an example in which role is the role of a senior citizen a plurality of preferred communication services might include an interactive service that provides healthcare information and advice or a medical emergency service.

In an example in which role is the role of a fan of a professional basketball team a plurality of preferred communication services might include a service that provides sports score update for the team or a match ticketing service for the team.

In an example in which role is the role of a parishioner of a church a plurality of preferred communication services might include a service that provides diocese event information and charity work inquiry or a service for spiritual advice provided by diocese clergymen.

Telephone may include any suitable communication device such as but not limited to land line cellular and satellite telephones PDAs and the like available from well known manufacturers. Telephone may include typical features such as but not limited to a display panel adapted to display items including text and or graphics function keys and the like not shown .

Service network provider may be selected from a variety of service provider types such as but not limited to a residential telephone service provider a cellular telephone service provider a corporate communication service department a hotel communication service department a centrex service provider or an IP centrex service provider a mobile virtual network provider MVNO or a value added service provider a voice over IP VoIP service provider or an Instant Message IM based voice service provider.

In accordance with at least one embodiment communication network includes a telephone network such as but not limited to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a corporate telephone network or a Voice over IP VoIP network. Communication network may include an Internet Protocol IP network a wide area network WAN or local area network LAN the Internet a corporate Virtual Private Network VPN a wired network such as an Ethernet and or a wireless network such as a General Packet Radio Service GPRS network a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or a WiFi network. Further examples of a communication network include a Code Division Multiple Access One cdmaOne network CDMA2000 network Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA network third generation 3G network CDMA 1 Evolution Data Optimized 1 EV DO network High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA network and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network.

Communication connection includes voice and or data communication capability. In one embodiment communication connection allows a voice conversation between user and communication service provider and or data information exchange between user and communication service provider . In one embodiment the data information includes text image video or animation. For example telephone receives the data information from communication service provider and displays the data information on a telephone display panel. In one embodiment telephone receives input from user via a telephone input device such as dialpad keyboard navigation keys stylus or speaker. Telephone sends data information to communication service provider based on the user input.

By way of example communication service provider may be a web server a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a media server or an application layer gateway. Communication service provider may include a service representative in which case the voice conversion is preferably between user and the service representative. In another embodiment communication service provider includes an interactive voice system such as a voice messaging system or an interactive voice response IVR system in which case the voice conversation is preferably between user and the interactive voice system. In another embodiment communication service provider includes a conference bridge the voice conversation is between user and another user or users of communication network over the conference bridge. In another embodiment communication service provider includes a collaboration system with voice functionality the voice conversation is between user and another user or users over the collaboration system. In another embodiment communication service provider includes an Instant Messaging system with voice functionality the voice conversation is between user and another user or users over the Instant Messaging system. In another embodiment communication service provider includes a peer to peer based collaboration system the voice conversation is between user and another user or users of the peer to peer collaboration system.

A communication service provider may be considered a preferred communication provider when associated with a preferred communication service .

Now referring to in an alternate embodiment a telephone includes a capsule . Capsule may be in the form of a data file stored in telephone . Capsule may be included in programming logic in telephone . Capsule includes a user role description and at least one preferred communication service associated therewith. User role description contains user information describing the role of user . The preferred communication services are tailored to the role described by user role description .

In one example and referring to the tailoring of communication services is achieved wherein telephone is employed to allow user to use communication services . A service provider or a telephone seller based on user role description e.g. role of senior citizens selects or tailors the preferred communication service a subset of the communication services and store the preferred communication services in capsule .

In another embodiment telephone is adapted to accept user input such as pressing a senior citizen button to modify capsule with new preferred communication services tailored to the selected role.

In one embodiment user information is provided preloaded in capsule for example as a manufacturing pre installation or as a pre sale configuration prepared for example by a phone retailer or technician. In another embodiment the telephone accepts personal information from a user and stores the personal information in capsule .

In one embodiment user role description includes at least one role attribute such as but not limited to age range gender profession group or community affiliation grade level in a business organization job function and or organization position. In one embodiment a preferred communication service in capsule is tailored to at least one role attribute in user role description . The role attribute is said to be applicable to the preferred communication service . In another embodiment a role attribute is applicable to all preferred communication services in capsule . In one embodiment a role attribute is applicable to some but not all preferred communication services in capsule .

Now referring to telephone includes capsule . Capsule is tailored for user and includes at least a preferred communication service . Telephone includes an input module and an output module and displays capsule to user by providing means for user to select and use preferred communication services . Telephone displays capsule by presenting information about preferred communication service as described above.

In one embodiment input module may include a dialpad navigation keys a keyboard a stylus and or a touchscreen. Thus equipped telephone allows user to use input module to select and use preferred communication service in conjunction with the displayed information.

Telephone presents information about preferred communication service via output module . In one embodiment output module includes a display panel and displays information about preferred communication service on the display panel. In one embodiment the output module is a graphical user interface GUI . The information may include a textual or graphical representation of preferred communication service . The information may include for example an operational manual for preferred communication service .

In another embodiment output module is or includes a speaker. Telephone announces information about preferred communication service over the speaker.

In one embodiment input module includes a microphone. Telephone allows user to select and use preferred communication service via a voice command over the microphone. In one embodiment telephone includes a voice processing module not shown as known to those skilled in the art that converts voice signals captured at the microphone into a voice command. In one embodiment the voice processing module matches the voice signals to a plurality of voice tags wherein a voice tag is associated with a voice command. The voice processing module selects a matched voice tag which selects the appropriate preferred communication service to be accessed.

In accordance with one embodiment output module is adapted to reveal or display capsule based on various operations. For example in one embodiment telephone is adapted to reveal capsule at power up time. In another embodiment telephone reveals capsule at a time when telephone wakes up from a power saving mode. In another embodiment telephone reveals capsule when telephone detects user activity from input module such as for example when a touchscreen is being touched or a key is being pressed. In one embodiment telephone includes a plurality of capsules .

In one embodiment one or more capsules are stored in telephone by a the manufacturer of the telephone . In one embodiment the telephone manufacturer pre selects a capsule in a manufactured telephone . For example a telephone includes a pre selected capsule tailored for the role of a college student. In another example a telephone includes a pre selected capsule for use by hotels in which the pre selected capsule is tailored to the role of a hotel guest. In another example a telephone is manufactured for a value added service provider catering to the elderly population in which the pre selected capsule is tailored to the role of a senior citizen.

In another embodiment a service network provider stores a plurality of capsules in a telephone . In accordance with at least one embodiment the service network provider pre selects a capsule in the telephone .

In one embodiment telephone provides means for user to select a capsule from a plurality of capsules stored in telephone . For example after purchasing a telephone a user selects a first capsule tailored for the role of a housewife. A few months later the user selects a second capsule tailored for the role of a young parent.

Now referring to a method of using a preferred communication service is disclosed. Telephone includes capsule . Capsule includes user role description and a preferred communication service . Telephone initiates a communication connection with preferred communication service provider for preferred communication service .

In one embodiment telephone receives user input from user for using preferred communication service . In this embodiment the preferred communication service has already been tailored to the role as described hereinabove. Telephone initiates the communication connection with preferred communication service provider .

In another embodiment telephone automatically initiates the communication connection with preferred communication service provider . In one embodiment telephone includes a clock function not shown as is known in the art and telephone automatically initiates the communication connection based on a scheduled time. The time schedule can be pre set within the capsule and associated with the preferred communication service . In one embodiment telephone accepts user input such as pressing a senior citizen button and modifies capsule with new preferred communication services tailored to the selected role.

For example preferred communication service is an information service that provides morning news local weather and traffic condition and the scheduled time is 6 30 am on weekdays. Telephone automatically initiates the communication connection for the information service after 6 30 am on weekdays.

In another embodiment telephone initiates the communication connection by establishing a voice communication session with preferred communication service provider . User and preferred communication service provider talks over voice communication session . For example preferred communication service provides pediatric advice. User obtains the pediatric advice offered by an on duty nurse or a healthcare professional over voice communication session .

In another embodiment telephone initiates the communication connection by establishing a data communication session with preferred communication service provider . Preferred communication service may include voice capabilities. In one embodiment during the data communication session telephone receives an indication to use the voice capability of preferred communication service . In one embodiment telephone receives the indication from user via input module such as a key touchpad or the like. Telephone establishes voice communication session with preferred communication service provider . For example preferred communication service is a movie ticketing service. Telephone establishes a data communication session with a movie ticketing service website. User glances over several movie video clips over data communication session . A movie video clip includes a voice capability selection to invoke a voice communication session with a service representative of the movie ticketing service. User is ready to purchase movie tickets of a movie. User invokes the voice capability selection. Telephone establishes a voice communication session with movie ticketing service. User talks with a service representative to purchase two movie tickets.

In yet a further embodiment telephone sends user information over the communication connection. In one embodiment user role description includes user information such as but not limited to personal information of a user. Telephone sends user information applicable to a preferred communication service to the preferred communication service provider for the preferred communication service . In one embodiment user information includes user identity such as a user name guest name employee number or subscriber name age location such as the name of a city a state or a metropolitan area language preference interest hobbies cultural or ethnical affiliation and authentication information.

Telephone retrieves from user role description a role attribute applicable to preferred communication service . Telephone sends the retrieved role attributes in user information . In one embodiment telephone sends user information over voice communication session .

In one example telephone sends the user information in Dial Pulse Multiple Frequency DTMF digits. In another example telephone sends user information in a Session Initiation Protocol SIP INVITE message. In one more example telephone sends user information in a SIP INFO message. In one embodiment telephone sends user information over data communication session . In one example telephone sends user information in a cookie header of a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request. In one example telephone sends user information in an HTTP POST request. In one example telephone sends user information using an application level messaging protocol.

In one example preferred communication service is a restaurant reservation service. User information includes an age of 64 plus years old. User receives the reservation service with discount promotion for senior citizens.

In one example preferred communication service is a service provided by a profession hockey league. User information includes a team affiliation. User receives the league service customized to the team affiliation such as matching ticketing score update or memorabilia purchasing for the team.

In one example preferred communication service is a dating service. User information includes a male gender. User receives the dating service customized to the male gender such as member profile events and activities or match making geared towards the male gender.

In one example preferred communication service is a conference service for a corporation. User information includes a grade level of 5 within the corporation. User receives the conference service customized to the grade level of 5 such as a multi media conferencing service for grade level of 5 and above.

Capsule updater connects to service network provider via a suitable communication connection through telephone . Capsule updater retrieves user role description from capsule . In one embodiment capsule updater retrieves user role description from telephone directly such as over an application programming interface. In one embodiment capsule updater retrieves user role from telephone over communication network.

Capsule updater sends to service network provider a capsule update request that includes the retrieved user role description .

Capsule updater receives a capsule update response from service network provider . In one embodiment capsule update response includes at least one preferred communication service . Capsule updater matches the preferred communication service with the preferred communication service s stored in capsule . In one embodiment capsule updater determines that there is no match for received preferred communication service s and capsule updater stores the received preferred communication service s in capsule .

In another embodiment capsule update response includes a role attribute that is applicable to preferred communication service . Capsule updater stores role attribute into capsule preferably only to the extent an identical role attribute is not already stored in capsule .

In one embodiment service network provider modifies capsule at a scheduled time for example every week every other day or once a month. In one embodiment service network provider modifies capsule at random time. In one embodiment service network provider modifies capsule as a result of a user request.

Telephone includes capsule . Capsule include user role description and a preferred communication service . Preferred communication service provider modifies preferred communication service . In one embodiment telephone optionally includes service updater . Capsule connects to a service updater .

Service updater communicates with preferred communication service provider . Service updater in one embodiment is a software program module that communicates with preferred communication service provider and modifies applicable user role description of a preferred communication service . Service updater receives a service update from preferred communication service provider . This is analogous to software upgrade update such as a Windows update prompted by the Windows manufacturer. In one embodiment service updater sends a service update request and receives service update as a response.

Service update includes a role attribute that is applicable to preferred communication service . Service updater extracts role attribute from service update and stores the retrieved role attribute in user role description .

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. It is therefore to be understood that numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

