---

title: Functionalized dendritic polymers for the capture and neutralization of biological and chemical agents
abstract: The present invention describes compositions and methods for trapping/capturing and/or destroying dangerous substances such as chemical and biological warfare agents. The present invention relates to dendritic polymers, specifically, to quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers and N-Halamine functionalized dendritic polymers. Such dendrimers are useful for the capture and neutralization of biological and chemical warfare agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08097343&OS=08097343&RS=08097343
owner: DSM IP Assets B.V.
number: 08097343
owner_city: 
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20060612
---
The present application is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 216 728 filed on Aug. 31 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 384 626 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 606 077 filed Aug. 31 2004 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The United States government may have certain rights to this invention pursuant to Grant Nos. W9132T 04 C 0007 from the United States Army and Contract No. W911SR 04 C 0098 from DARPA Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency .

The threat of biological and chemical warfare has grown considerably in recent times. Numerous countries are capable of developing deadly biological and chemical weapons. Some potent biological warfare agents include the following bacteria such as anthrax and plague viruses such as variola virus small pox and flaviviruses hemorrhagic fevers and toxins such as botulinum toxins and saxitoxin. Some potent chemical warfare agents include blister or vesicant agents such as mustard agents nerve agents such as methylphosphonothiolate VX lung damaging or choking agents such as phosgene CG cyanogen agents such as hydrogen cyanide incapacitants such as 3 quinuclidinyl benzilate riot control agents such as CS malonitrile smokes such as zinc chloride smokes and some herbicides such as 2 4 D 2 4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid .

All of the above agents as well as numerous other biological and chemical agents pose a significant risk to private citizens as well as to military personnel. For example vesicant agents burn and blister the skin or any other part of the body they contact including eyes mucus membranes lungs and skin. Nerve agents are particularly toxic and are generally colorless odorless and readily absorbed through the lungs eyes skin and intestinal track. Even a brief exposure can be fatal and death can occur in as quickly as 1 to 10 minutes. Biological agents such as anthrax are easily disseminated as aerosols and thus have the ability to inflict a large number of casualties over a wide area with minimal logistical requirements. Many biological agents are highly stable and thus can persist for long periods of time in soil or food.

There are currently two general types of decontamination methods for biological agents chemical disinfection and physical decontamination. Chemical disinfectants such as hypochlorite solutions are useful but are corrosive to most metals and fabrics as well as to human skin. Physical decontamination on the other hand usually involves dry heat up to 160 C. for 2 hours or steam or super heated steam for about 20 minutes. Sometimes UV light can be used effectively but it is difficult to develop and standardize for practical use.

These methods have many drawbacks. The use of chemical disinfectants can be harmful to personnel and equipment due to the corrosiveness and toxicity of the disinfectants. Furthermore chemical disinfectants result in large quantities of effluent which must be disposed of in an environmentally sound manner. Physical decontamination methods are lacking because they require large expenditures of energy. Both chemical and physical methods are difficult to use directly at the contaminated site due to bulky equipment and or large quantities of liquids which must be transported to the site. Finally while a particular decontamination or disinfection method may be suitable for biological decontamination it is generally not effective against chemical agents. There is a need for decontamination compounds which are effective against a wide variety of both chemical and biological agents have low energy requirements are easily transportable do not harm skin or equipment and employ small amounts of liquids with minimal or no effluent. Such decontamination compounds may be useful in both military and commercial arenas such as first responders and the Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning industry.

Because of the unique architecture of dendrimers they have been investigated for a wide variety of applications such as gene delivery vesicles Tang et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 7 at 703 714 1996 Kukowska Latallo et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93 at 4897 4902 1996 catalysts Zeng F. Z. S. C. Chem. Rev. 97 at 1681 1997 Newkome et al. Chem. Rev. 99 at 1689 1746 1999 drug delivery carriers Liu M. Frechet J. M. J. Proc. Am. Chem. Soc. Polym. Mater. Sci. Engr. 80 at 167 1999 Uhrich K. TRIP 5 at 388 393 1997 Liu H. Uhrich K. Proc Am. Chem. Soc. Div. Polym. Chem. 38 at 1226 1997 chromatography stationary phases Matthews et al. Prog. Polym. Sci. 23 at 1 56 1998 boron neutron capture therapy agents Newkome et al. Dendritic Macromolecules Concepts Syntheses Perspectives VCH Weinheim Germany 1996 Newkome O. R. Advances in Dendritic Macromolecules JAI Press. Greenwich Conn. Vol. 2 1995 and magnetic resonance imaging contrast agents Tomalia D. A. Adv. Mater. 6 at 529 539 1994 all of which are herein incorporated by reference. Some examples of commercially available hyperbranched polymers include hyperbranched polyethylene imine PEI and Hybranes www.hybrane.com DSM .

Synthesized quaternary ammonium functionalized poly propyleneimine dendrimers have been evaluated with regard to their antibacterial properties. Bioluminescence results have confirmed that dendrimer biocides with 16 quaternary ammonium groups on their surfaces are over two orders of magnitude more potent than monofunctional counterparts against gram negative bacteria such as . These biocides are also very effective against Gram positive bacteria such as which are usually more susceptible to antimicrobials due to their less complex structures.

Embodiments of the present invention include compositions and methods for sorbing and or destroying dangerous substances such as chemical warfare agents biological warfare agents toxic industrial chemicals TICs or toxic industrial materials TIMs . Some embodiments of the present invention include high surface area compositions and methods for using them to trap and or destroy dangerous substances such as chemical warfare agents biological warfare agents toxic industrial chemicals TICs or toxic industrial materials TIMs . Some embodiments of the invention include dendritic polymers for example quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers.

According to one embodiment the invention includes a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula I 

According to another embodiment the invention includes a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula II 

According to yet another embodiment the invention includes a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula III 

Formulas I II and III of the invention include a group D defined as a dendrimer or a hyperbranched polymer. According to some embodiments D may be for example a polyamidoamine dendrimer a polyethylene oxide based dendrimer a polypropylene imine based dendrimer a silicon based dendrimer a polyglycerol based hyperbranched polymer a poly ester amide based hyperbranched polymer a silicon based hyperbranched polymer or a hyperbranched polyol.

Formulas I II and III of the invention include a group n defined as the generation number of the dendrimer or the number of branches of the hyperbranched polymer. According to one embodiment of the invention D is a dendrimer and n is an integer of 1 to 10. According to another embodiment D is a hyperbranched polymer and the number of branches is 2 to 40. Formulas I II and III also include a group X defined as an anion. According to some embodiments X is fluoride chloride iodide bromide sulfate sulfite nitrate chlorite chlorate hydroxide carbonate formate perchlorate hexafluorophosphate or permanganate. Formulas I II and III also include a group R defined as a linking group. Rmay be any linking group that links the quaternary ammonium group to the dendrimer including but not limited to CO CO NH CO NH CH where a is an integer of 1 to 20 or CO NH phenyl CH CH where b is an integer of 1 to 20. A quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of the invention has about 1 to 100 functionality. The groups R R and Rof the formulas described herein may be hydrogen an alkyl group having 1 32 carbon atoms an aryl group having 1 to 32 carbon atoms or chloromethyl. In formula II groups Rand Rare individually selected from hydrogen an alkyl group having 1 32 carbon atoms an aryl group having 1 to 32 carbon atoms or chloromethyl. In formula III groups R R and R are individually selected from hydrogen an alkyl group having 1 32 carbon atoms an aryl group having 1 to 32 carbon atoms or chloromethyl.

Other embodiments of the invention include N Halamine compounds including N Halamine functionalized dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers. Other embodiments can include any combination of quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers with N Halamine compounds including functionalized dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers. Other embodiments can include dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers functionalized with quaternary ammonium compounds and N Halamines. Such dendritic polymers are useful for the capture and neutralization of biological warfare agents chemical warfare agents or other toxic materials.

It has been found that quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers and N Halamine compounds including functionalized dendritic polymers are effective in the capture and neutralization of for example chemical agents biological agents and biologically generated toxins. Dendritic polymers can be dendrimers or hyperbranched polymers. One embodiment of the invention is a method of deactivating a toxic target agent comprising providing a composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer onto a substrate and placing the substrate in contact with a target agent selected from a chemical agent a biological agent a biologically generated toxin a TIC and a TIM agent. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating an area contaminated with a toxic target agent comprising providing a composition comprising quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers and N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymers or N Halamine compounds to the contaminated area wherein the toxic agent is a chemical agent a biological agent a biologically generated toxin a TIC or a TIM agent. The invention also includes a method of capturing a target agent comprising providing a composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula I formula II or formula III onto a substrate and contacting the coated substrate with a target agent selected from a chemical agent a biological agent a biologically generated toxin a TIC and a TIM. Optionally an N Halamine compound N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer or N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer together with a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer are dispersed onto a substrate or surface and the substrate contacts the target agent. In various embodiments the dendritic polymers may be effective in both an aqueous media and against airborne toxic agents e.g. the target may be in an aqueous media or may be airborne.

Another embodiment of the invention is a composition for the trapping and deactivating a toxic target agent comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine compound such as an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer. Compositions of the present invention may be used to contact a toxic target agent selected from a chemical warfare agent a biological warfare agent a biologically generated toxin a TIC and a TIM. The compositions may be effective for example in both an aqueous media and against airborne toxic agents.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a composition capable of reducing the effectiveness of a target toxic agent the composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer the composition comprising an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer or the composition comprising an N Halamine dispersed on high surface area substrates or the composition comprising an N Halamine in a powder or vapor form. According to some embodiments an N Halamine compound of the invention comprises a halogenated amine including but not limited to an oxidizolidinone an imidizolidinone or a hydantoin.

The invention further includes a coating composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula I formula II or formula III. The coating composition may further comprise an N Halamine compound. According to some embodiments the N Halamine compound is an oxidizolidinone an imidizolidinone or a hydantoin. According to one embodiment the coating composition of the invention further comprises an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer comprising a plurality of halogenated amines selected from oxidizolidinones imidizolidinones hydantoins and combinations thereof. The invention also includes a coated substrate comprising a substrate coated with such a coating composition. According to some embodiments the substrate may be a coated polymeric bead a metal or metal oxide particle glass a textile material or a filter e.g. an air filter .

Another embodiment of the present invention is a substrate material coated with a composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formulat I II or III. The substrate may be further coated with an N Halamine compound such as an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer or an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer. In the coating embodiments of the present invention the substrate material may be a polymeric microsphere a metal or metal oxide particle a glass bead a textile material or another suitable material. Another embodiment of the present invention is a filter coated with a composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine compound or a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer a filter coated with an N Halamine dendritic polymer or a filter e.g. an air filter coated with an N Halamine composition such as small powder particles or vapor coating of N Halamine. Another embodiment of the present invention is a textile material coated with a composition comprising a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine compound or a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer and an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer or a textile material coated with an N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer or a textile material coated with an N Halamine composition such as small powder particles or vapor coating of N Halamine. In the composition embodiments and methods of the present invention both hyperbranched polymers and dendrimers may be functionalized.

Advantageously the dendritic polymers in embodiments of the present invention as well as high surface area powders and vaporized forms of deactivating agents like N Halamines and quaternary amines may be utilized as agents to trap and deactivate biological warfare agents chemical warfare agents toxic industrial chemicals TICs or toxic industrial materials TIMs . Such high surface area trapping agents in powder vapor or linked to dendritic polymers may be provided to contact a toxic agent to be neutralized. Advantageously these trapping agents may be applied or linked to an appropriate surface or substrate such as a filter fabrics particles beads and walls. Such high surface area materials including dendritic polymers may be used to capture and neutralize deactivate biological such as bacteria viruses and spores chemical warfare agents and other toxic materials.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular processes compositions or methodologies described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an agent is a reference to one or more agents and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred compositions methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

The terms capturing trapping sorbing as in adsorption and chemisorption and the like refer to the physical and or chemical attachment adhesion or bonding of any such toxic agent to the dendritic polymers vapor powdered or substrate containing N Halamine and or quaternary ammonium compounds described in various embodiments of the present invention Any such term may be used interchangeably herein.

The terms deactivate deactivation decontaminate decontamination destroy destroying treat treating neutralize and neutralization and the like are to be understood as meaning to render any such toxic agent inactive ineffective or substantially less effective for causing harm to life or health and particularly human life or health. Thus such deactivation contact is of course to be for a sufficient time and under conditions which are sufficient to produce a reaction product having less toxicity than said toxic agent. Any such term may be used interchangeably herein.

Dendritic polymers are highly branched globular macromolecules which can be subdivided into the two different categories namely dendrimers and hyperbranched polymers. Dendrimers can be highly uniform three dimensional monodisperse polymers with a tree like globular structure. A dendrimer is a substantially or completely symmetrical layered macromolecule that consists of three distinct areas the polyfunctional central core or focal point various radial layers of repeating units so called generations G and the end groups which are also termed peripheral or terminal groups. Hyperbranched polymers represent another class of globular highly branched macromolecules which unlike dendrimers exhibit polydispersity and irregularity in terms of branching and structure. Hyperbranched polymers can be prepared more cost effectively than dendrimers which can be advantageous.

Dendrimers are well defined highly branched macromolecules that emanate from a central core. Example of suitable dendrimers include polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers and polypropylene imine PPI dendrimers. Dendriditic architecture brings a very high number of functional groups in a compact space. Examples of dendrimers include polyamidoamine dendrimers such as quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimers and N Halamine chloramine functionalized dendrimers.

Dendrimers can be tailored to generate uniform or discrete functionalities and possess tunable inner cavities surface moieties sizes molecular weights and solvent interactions. Dendrimers may be synthesized by a convergent approach see Tomalia et al. Macromolecules 20 at 1164 1987 . Alternatively dendrimers may also be synthesized by a divergent approach see Tang et al. Bioconjugate Chem. 7 at 703 714 1996 both herein incorporated by reference.

In the divergent approach growth of dendrimers starts from a multi functional core. Through a series of reaction and purification steps dendrimers grow radially outwards. At different stages of the synthesis dendrimers are identified by generations. As the generation increases the number of functional groups the size of the dendrimer and the molecular weight of the dendrimer increase. Commercially available dendrimers such as polyamidoamine PAMAM dendrimers from Dendritech Inc. Midland Mich. USA are synthesized by the divergent approach.

In the convergent approach dendrons as parts of dendrimers are synthesized according to the divergent approach and these dendrons are then coupled to a multifunctional core. An advantage of the convergent approach is that the chemistry of each dendron can be different and distinct functional groups can be integrated into dendrimers at precise sites. The combination of discrete numbers of functionalities in one molecule and high local densities is advantageous for applications where a high surface contact area is important.

One example of a hyperbranched polymer that may be used to link one or more quaternary amines N halamines or any combination of these is Hybrane available from DSM Hybrane. Hybrane is a hyperbranched poly ester amide based on a monomer made from reacting a cyclic anhydride with diisopropanolamine. Another polyester hyperbranched polymer is Boltorn available from Perstorp.

The functionalized dendritic polymers of the present invention may be used to treat destroy deactivate render ineffective and or neutralize toxic agents. The use of the dendritic polymers of the present invention may be used to decontaminate an area contaminated with a biological or chemical agent. The term dendritic polymers refers to both dendrimers hyperbranched polymer or any combination of dendrimer and hyperbranched polymers. Both subsets are suitable for the compositions and methods of the present invention and either may be used to the exclusion of the other in various embodiments of the invention.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a composition comprising quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers N Halamine such as chloroamine bromoamine iodoamine compounds including functionalized dendritic polymers or any combination of these. Other embodiments of the present invention are coatings and coated substrates comprising quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers and or N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymers.

In the several method embodiments of the present invention the use of dendritic polymers in the capture and neutralization of toxic agents may be accomplished by a solid state system. A solid substrate in this system may be coated with the dendritic polymers of the present invention. Alternatively the solid substrate may be coated with a combination of quaternary ammonium and or N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymers quaternary ammonium and or N Halamine powders deposited on or into the substrate quaternary ammonium and or N Halamine vapors deposited on or into the substrate or any combination of these. The use of dendritic polymers powders or vapors of these provides high surface functionality and a matrix that can be used to coat surfaces such as filters liners particles fabrics glass metal wood plastic and concrete. Examples of fabrics that may be coated include nylon polyester polyethylene polypropylene acrylic acetate olefin cotton rayon silk wool blends thereof and any other natural or synthetic fabrics typically used as clothing or protective gear. Examples of particles that may be coated with the dendritic polymers powders and vapors include polymeric microspheres hollow glass beads and any other suitable material including nanoparticles. Additionally the dendritic polymers may be used in traditionally sorbing equipment including a packed column.

Embodiments of the present invention include compositions and methods employing quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers QAFDs . These dendritic polymers are PAMAM poly amidoamine based or can be polypropylene imine PPI based dendritic polymers. N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymers can also be PAMAM based. PAMAM dendrimers can be synthesized by the divergent method starting from ammonia or ehtylenediamine initiator core reagents. They can be constructed using a reiterative sequence consisting of a a double Michael addition of methyl acrylate to a primary amino group followed by b amidation of the resulting carbomethoxy intermediate with a large excess of ethylenediamine. In other embodiments one or more quaternary ammonium N Halamine or any combination of these can be linked to a hyperbranched polymer via functional groups.

According to one embodiment the invention comprises a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula I 

According to another embodiment the invention comprises a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula II 

The invention also includes in one embodiment a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of formula III 

The compounds shown in formula I and II present new cyclic quaternary ammonium structures containing single or multiple nitrogen groups which can be converted into quaternary ammonium groups. The increase in the density of positively charged quaternary groups will enhance the capture of organisms which typically consist of negatively charged surfaces.

The quaternary ammonium structures of formula III are derived from hydrazines. Even though hydrazines are weaker bases than their corresponding amines by 1 to 3 powers of 10 they exhibit pronounced nucleophilic character P. A. S. Smith Derivatives of Hydrazine and Other Hydronitrogens Having N N Bonds Benjamin Cummings Canada 18 22 1983 . The increased nucleophilicity exhibited by hydrazines has been attributed to the alpha effect. This effect is observed when two atoms with unshared electron pairs are bonded together J. Aubort R. Hudson and R. Woodcock Tet. Lett. 2229 1973 and T. Bruice A. Denzel R. Huffman and A. Butler J. Am. Chem. Soc. 89 2106 1967 . The repulsion between the two electron pairs raises the ground state energy thereby increasing the nucleophilicity. The unique electronic features of hydrazines make them particularly attractive for use in generating quaternary hydrazonium and N halohydrazine species suitable for controlling the growth of microorganisms.

Formulas I II and III include a linking group R. The linking group links the quaternary ammonium group to the dendritic polymer. The linking group is well known to those of skill in the art and may include but is not limited to CO CO NH CO NH CH where a is an integer of 1 to 20 or CO NH phenyl CH CH where b is m integer of 1 to 20.

A quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer of the invention has about 1 to 100 functionality. The functionality is based on conversion of the end groups such as amine groups of the base dendritic polymer to quaternary ammonium groups. The number of end groups of the dendritic polymer D is determined by n where n is an integer of 1 to 10 for dendrimers and 2 to 40 for hyperbranched polymers. For example for the generation 3 PAMAM dendrimers n 3 and the number of amine end groups is 32. If 50 of the amine groups are converted to quaternary ammonium groups then the quaternary ammonium dendritic polymer has a functionality of 50 .

One embodiment of the invention is a method for deactivating a toxic target agent that can include the acts of contacting a composition comprising a dendritic polymer functionalized with one or more quaternary ammonium compounds. In other embodiments the method includes the act of deactivating a toxic target agent that can include the acts of contacting a composition comprising a dendritic polymer functionalized with one or more N Halamine compounds. In another embodiment the method includes the acts of deactivating a toxic target agent that can include the acts of contacting a composition comprising a dendritic polymer functionalized with a combination of one or more quaternary ammonium compounds and N Halamine compounds. The toxic target agent may be one or more of chemical agents biological agents biologically generated toxins TICs or TIMs.

One embodiment of the invention is a composition that can include aerosolized beads coated with halogenated hydantoins for deactivating biological agent. In some embodiments the size of the bead can range from about 0.1 to about 100 microns in other embodiments where a higher contact surface area is beneficial the beads can have a size that ranges from about 0.1 to about 30 microns or from about 0.1 to about 20 microns. In some embodiments the hydantoin can be 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin DCDMH 

The aerosolized beads can be made from a variety of chemically and physically compatible materials. Examples of such materials can include but are not limited to polymers like poly styrene co divinylbenzene polymethylmethacrylate and copolymers of polystyrene and polymethylmethacrylate borosilicate glass or combinations of these. The beads can be either hollow or solid and the beads can have a density ranging from about 0.1 to about 2.6 g cm.

In some embodiments the N halamine can be made into a powdered form from an aerosol or milled powder and the aerosolized pure powder of N halamine used to neutralize aerosolized biological agents. Preferably the N halamine is DCDMH powder having a particle size in the range of about 0.1 to about 35 microns even more preferably from about 0.1 to about 20 microns. In some embodiments the hydantoin is vaporized and the gas or vapor form of halogenated hydantoins is used to neutralize aerosolized biological agents. Preferably the hydantoin is 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin DCDMH .

The quaternary ammonium functional groups on the dendritic polymers can be used to provide a high concentration of positive charges that serve to capture the negatively charged toxic agents such as bacterial spores. Without wishing to be bound by theory the interactions between the functional groups and the agents are electrostatic interactions between the oppositely charged surfaces. Adhesion may also be enhanced by hydrophobic interactions between the hydrophobic QAFD surface with the hydrophobic surface of the toxic agents such as bacteria or spores. The QAFDs function as a capturing adhesion agent for the toxic agents upon contact. In another embodiment the QAFDs function to provide antimicrobial protection against typical airborne bacteria. The QAFDs suitable for the present invention may have a molecular weight of about 1000 to about 100 000 and may be very monodisperse typical polydispersity may be in the range of about 1.0002 to about 1.01 .

In the case of dendrimers the molecular weight can be determined by the generation G of the dendrimer selected. The surface functionality and molecular weight increase with the generation. Without wishing to be bound by theory dendrimers with generation G0 G10 e.g. PAMAM MW 517 934 720 may be functionalized with one or more quaternary ammonium one or more N Halamine groups or any combination of these. For example amine terminated G3 PAMAM dendrimers with molecular weight of 6909 has 32 surface functional groups. With complete functionalization of G3 PAMAM dendrimer with dimethyl decyl quaternary ammonium groups the molecular weight is 15530. Functionalization of G4 and G5 dendrimers with 64 and 128 functional groups may also be suitable.

The quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers may be any number of compositions and molecular weights. Quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymers may be synthesized according to any suitable method. For example the methods described in C. Z. Chen N. C. Beck Tan P. Dhurjati T. K. van Dyk R. A. LaRossa S. T. Cooper Quaternary Ammonium Functionalized Poly propylene imine Dendrimers as Effective Antimicrobials Structure Activity Studies Biomacromolecules 2000 Fall 1 3 473 80 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety may be used to make the QAFDs of the present invention. Similar methods may be used to synthesize N Halamine functionalized dendritic polymer as well as dendritic polymer comprising combinations of these deactivating agents.

Suitable QAFDs for embodiments of the invention may include for example dendrimers functionalized with up to 64 quaternary ammonium groups per molecule. Specific QAFDs may include dimethyldodecyl ammonium chloride functionalized poly propyleneimine PPI generation 3 dendrimers. Methods described herein may be used to synthesize up to generation 5 dendrimers. Although a method is described using dimethyl dodecylamine any number of dimethyl alkylamines C C Cand C for example may be used.

The functionalization of dendritic polymers may consist of two steps. First halogen chlorine bromine or iodine functionality is introduced by reacting the primary amine groups of the polymer with a bifunctional chemical such as 2 chloroethyl isocyanate 2 bromoethyl isocyanate or 2 iodoethyl isocyanate. The halogen can then react with tertiary amines to form quaternary ammonium compounds.

A typical preparation procedure for a generation 3 dimethyl dodecylammonium functionalized PPI dendrimer may be described as follows. To a solution of 5.0 grams of PPI generation 3 dendrimer stripped with 500 mL of anhydrous toluene in 150 mL of anhydrous N N dimethylacetamide 5.21 grams of 2 chlorethyl isocyanate may be added dropwise at room temperature. The mixture may be stirred overnight. After mixing 50.5 g of dimethyl dodecylamine 150 mL of N N dimethylacetamide and 150 mL of toluene may be added. The solution may be slowly heated to 80 C. for 72 hours. After heating the solution may be concentrated to ca. 100 mL. The concentrated solution may be precipitated in acetone. The mixture may be filtered and dried in vacuum at 60 C. and the product may be obtained as a yellow solid material at about 70 yield.

The N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers can act as a neutralizing agent in the present methods and compositions. The N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers provide a high surface functionality of N halamine groups which provide a temporary storage of the halogen chlorine bromine or iodine in the solid dendritic polymer matrix until its release upon contact with the biological agent. N halamines are effective biocidal agents and are capable of regeneration after use by treatment with halogen solution.

N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers may be functionalized in any suitable manner. The N halamines dendritic polymers may be any number of halogenated amines including oxidizolidinones imidizolidinones and hydantoins. The dendrimers or hyperbranched polymers may include a plurality of functional groups The N halamines may be chlorinated brominated iodinated or some combination thereof. For example a series of U.S. Patents by Worley et al describe suitable compounds and methods. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 490 983 5 902 818 and 6 469 177 are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers may be described as biocidal polymers comprising at least one cyclic N halamine unit linked at a carbon atom wherein each N halamine unit comprises a 4 to 7 membered ring wherein at least 3 members of the ring are carbon 1 3 members of the ring are a nitrogen heteroatom and 0 1 member of the ring is an oxygen heteroatom. In the case of dendrimers the periphery of dendrimers with generation G0 G10 may be functionalized with a variety of N Halamine compounds by reaction of the functional groups of each compound with the appropriate moieties such as reaction of an amine terminated dendrimer with carboxylic acid or thionyl chloride. Amine terminated G3 PAMAM dendrimers may be functionalized via reaction with 5 hydantoin acetyl chloride. The hydantoin terminated dendrimers can then be chlorinated post reaction by dipping coated substrates in aqueous solution of chlorine bleach 5.25 NaOCl . Alternatively chlorination of the hydantion can be achieved by treating with chlorine gas in a basic solution such as sodium hydroxide. Functionalized hyperbranched polymers may be treated in a similar manner.

Hyperbranched polymers may be prepared in one step procedures most commonly by polycondensation of ABmonomers as reported by Seiler Matthias Dendritic Polymers Interdisciplinary Research and Emerging Applications from Unique Structural Properties Chem. Eng. Technol. 25 2002 3 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Apart from polycondensation addition polymerization of monomers that contain an initiating function and a propagating function in the same molecule as well as ring opening polymerization of cyclic latent AB type monomers can be applied for the synthesis of hyperbranched macromolecules. Functionalization of hyperbranched polymers is generally the same as for dendrimers as is know by one skilled in the art.

The present systems use the dendritic polymers for both the capture and neutralization of biological and or chemical agents. The use of the two types of functionalized dendritic polymers provides moieties for both purposes. The moieties which act to attach the toxic agent and then neutralize the agent are chemically bound to the surface of the dendritic polymers.

Coating solutions of about 1 50 wt of the QAFD and an N halamine dendritic polymer or the QAFD and an N Halamine compound such as DCDMH may be used to coat air filter substrates. The loading onto a substrate may be from about 0.5 to about 100 wt . The capture and neutralization of biological agents specifically also known as may be accomplished using substrates coated separately with each functionalized dendritic polymer. Mixtures of the two dendritic polymers may also be coated or coated as bi layers or multiple molecular layers using the layer by layer system.

The QAFD dendritic polymers increase the capture of spores on the filter but are not necessarily sporicidal. The N halamine dendritic polymers are sporicidal. Coated filters containing a mixture of the QAFD and the N halamine compound 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin 1 1 weight ratio showed that the efficacy of the capture and subsequent neutralization of the spores on the filter was increased. Mixtures of the coatings maybe applied as a single layer or first coated with the N halamine functionalized dendritic polymer then with the QAF dendritic polymer on the surface.

In the method embodiments of the present invention a composition that includes one or more quaternary ammonium compounds one or more N Halamines or any combination of these as dendrimers powders or vapors can be provided to a suitable substrate. The coated substrate is next placed in contact with the target agent selected from the group consisting of chemical agents biological agents and biologically generated toxins. A method for deactivating a liquid or vapor phase target agent comprises contacting the N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers powders or vapors and or QAFDs with the toxic target agent such that the target agent contacts the N Halamine or quaternary ammonium compound and is deactivated by them. Vapor phase target agent s may for example be solubilized in an appropriate solvent through any known means and the resultant solution may be passed over N halamine dendritic polymers and QAFDs. The present invention in an additional aspect provides a method for reducing or eliminating unwanted or undesired stockpiles of a toxic chemical agent susceptible to deactivation e.g oxidation which comprises deactivating a toxic chemical agent by contacting the toxic chemical agent e.g. in a confining means with the functionalized dendritic polymers i.e. with a deactivating amount of a halogenated resin . Such contact is of course to be for a sufficient time and under conditions which are sufficient to produce a reaction product having less toxicity than said toxic chemical agents The confining means may be a scaled container a chromatographic like column packed with halogenated resin or any other suitable chamber trap or vessel.

The dendritic polymers may be attached to various substrates by covalent bonds or by electrostatic interactions between charged surfaces. The dendritic polymers may be attached to various substrates using a layer by layer technique. For example a substrate may first be coated with a layer comprising the N halamine functionalized dendritic polymers. The substrate may then be coated with an outer layer comprising QAFDs. In several embodiments the dendrimers may be combined with hyperbranched polymers. The N halamine dendritic polymers and or the QAFDs may be optionally decorated with metals and metal oxides for improved performance. Metals include silver copper and zinc. Metal oxides include TiO AlO MgO and CaO. The use of metals and metal oxides in the destroying biological agents have been described by Koper et al in U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 519 herein incorporated by reference. Additionally dendritic polymers of the present invention may also by functionalized to include iodinated moieties described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 400 herein incorporated by reference.

The dendritic polymers may be effective against chemical agents biological agents and biologically generated toxins such as bacteria spores fungi viruses and toxins. Examples of bacterium include gram positive bacterium such as and . The dendritic polymers may also be effective against gram negative bacterium such as and

Some potent biological agents include the following bacteria such as anthrax and plague viruses such as variola virus small pox and flaviviruses hemorrhagic fevers . Some potent chemical agents include blister or vesicant agents such as mustard agents nerve agents such as ethylphosphonothiolate VX lung damaging or hoking agents such as phosgene CG cyanogen agents such as hydrogen cyanide incapacitants such as 3 quinuclidinyl benzilate riot control agents such as CS malonitrile smokes such as zinc chloride smokes and some herbicides such as 2 4 D 2 4 dichlorophenoxy acetic acid . The chemical warfare agents include among other substances a variety of organophosphorus and organosulfur compounds. One commonly known chemical warfare agent is Bis 2 chloroethyl sulfide also known as HD. The chemical warfare agents commonly known as G agents are examples of highly toxic nerve agents they include TABUN GA SARIN GB and SOMAN GD GD is pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate. The C agents are broadly organic esters of substituted phosphoric acid.

The dendritic polymers powders and vapors that can include the quaternary ammonium compounds and or N Halamines may be effective against a virus such as a MS2 virus or a fungus. The dendritic polymers may be effective against toxins selected from the group consisting of Aflatoxins Botulinum toxins toxins Conotoxins Ricins Saxitoxins Shiga toxins toxins Tetrodotoxins Verotoxins Microcystins Cyanginosin Abrins toxins Tetanus toxins Trichothecene mycotoxins Modeccins Volkensins Viscum album Lectin 1 Streptococcal toxins Pseudomonas A toxins Diphtheria toxins toxins toxic complexes toxins whooping cough pertussis toxins toxic complexes enterotoxins and toxins.

The dendritic polymers powders and vapors that can include the quaternary ammonium compounds and or N Halamines may be effective against TICs and TIMs. These can be harmful to humans exposed in an accidental or intentional terrorism release. TICs and TIMs can take the form of solids liquids gases vapors dusts fumes fibers and mists Some of the most dangerous TIC threats include ammonia arsine boron trichloride boron trifluoride carbon disulfide chlorine 2 chlorovinylarsonous acid diborane diethyl methylphosphonate diisopropylaminoethyl mercaptan diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonthioic acid ethyl methylphosphonic acid ethylene oxide fluorine formaldehyde hydrogen bromide hydrogen chloride hydrogen cyanide hydrogen fluoride hydrogen sulfide lewisite oxide Methyphosphinic acid nitric acid fuming Phosgene phosphorus trichloride pinacolyl methylphosphonate sulfur dioxide sulfuric acid thiodiglycol or tungsten hexafluoride.

Practice of the invention including additional preferred aspects and embodiments thereof will be more fully understood from the following examples and discussion which are presented for illustration only and should not be construed as limiting the invention in any way.

Preparation of G3 PAMAM quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimer as illustrated in . G3 PAMAM dendrimers with quaternary ammonium groups consisting of dimethyl CH and decyl CH groups were synthesized via a two step process. In a 250 ml round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar the PAMAM dendrimer ethylene diamine core with 32 NH was lyophilized in methanol and kept under vacuum overnight. The obtained solid dendrimer was weighed 6.24 g 0.903 mmol 28.9 mmol of NHgroups and 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP 100 mL was added and stirred for 2 hours under nitrogen. The 2 chloroethyl isocyanate 3.25 g 30.8 mmol was added dropwise over 5 minutes to the dendrimer solution and stirred for an additional 20 hours under nitrogen. N N dimethyldecylamine 26.78 g 144.5 mmol was added dropwise over 60 minutes to the well stirred solution and the heated to 80 C. and stirred for 73 hours. The mixture was dialyzed once in water and then three times in a mixture of methanol and dichloromethane Spectra Por 7 MWCO 3500 . Volatile solvents were removed by rotary evaporation and the obtained modified dendrimer was dried by lyophilization under vacuum. The yield was 28 4.11 g 0.253 mmol .

Characterization H NMR in CDOD 3.60 ppm NH CH NH CO NH CHCH N CH 3.44 ppm CO N CH N CH 3.25 ppm CO NH CH N 3.17 ppm N 2.80 ppm N CH CONH CH N 2.60 ppm CO NH CH N 2.38 ppm N CH CONH CH N 1.80 ppm N CHCH 1.30 1.39 ppm N CHCHCH 0.89 ppm CH . C NMR in CDOD 175.0 and 174.5 ppm N CHCH O NH 160.5 ppm NH O NH 65.9 ppm N CH 64.0 ppm CO N CH N CH 53.4 ppm CO NH CH N 52.5 and 51.6 ppm N 51.1 ppm N CH CONH CH N 40.7 ppm NH CH NH CO NH CHCH N CH 38.6 ppm CO NH CH N 35.2 ppm CO NH CH N CH 34.8 ppm N CH CONH CH N 23.6 33.0 ppm N CHCH 14.6 ppm CH . The internal repeat unit of PAMAM dendrimer is symbolized by the following CHCH CO NH CHCH N .

Preparation of G3 PAMAM N Halamine functionalized dendrimer as illustrated in . G3 PAMAM dendrimer ethylene diamine core with 32 NH was functionalized by the reaction with 5 hydantoin acetyl chloride. The acetyl chloride was prepared by the reaction of 5 hydantoin acetic acid with thionyl chloride by refluxing for 5 days according to the following procedure. In a 500 ml round bottom flask containing a magnetic stir bar and reflux condenser thionyl chloride 250 ml 408 g 3.43 moles was added to 5.52 g 34.9 mmol 5 hydantoin acetic acid. The reaction mixture was heated to 89 C. in an oil bath and refluxed for 43 hours. The reflux condenser was removed and replaced with a short path distillation apparatus to remove the thionyl chloride solvent by distillation at ambient pressure until distillate collection ceased. The remaining thionyl chloride was removed by vacuum pump. The residue in the reaction flask was dissolved in hot ethyl acetate. The unreacted starting material did not dissolve in the ethyl acetate. The hot ethyl acetate was gravity filtered into a 100 ml round bottomed flask and the solvent was removed by rotary evaporation. The acid chloride product was dried briefly under vacuum pump. 1.37 g 7.76 mmol 22 yield was obtained. H NMR analysis of the product indicated about 67 conversion to the acid chloride.

In a 100 ml round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar the G3 EDA core PAMAM dendrimer was lyophilized in methanol and kept under vacuum overnight. The obtained solid dendrimer was weighed 1.0052 g 0.1454 mmol 4.6528 mmol of NHgroups and anhydrous 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP 20 ml was added and mechanically agitated for 1 hour to dissolve the dendrimer. Triethylamine 1.30 ml 0.944 g 9.33 mmol was added to the PAMAM in NMP solution by pipette. A 25 ml pressure equalized addition funnel was placed on the flask with a nitrogen inlet. The 5 hydantoin acetyl chloride was dissolved in a mixture of 13 ml anhydrous NMP and 1 ml DMSO and added to the addition funnel. The acid chloride solution was added dropwise over 90 minutes to the well stirred solution. With each drop of acid chloride that was added to the reaction mixture increasing amounts of precipitate appeared. After two hours of labored stirring 10 ml water was added to the reaction mixture which caused the precipitate to dissolve. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 24 hours under a nitrogen flow. The reaction mixture was dialyzed three times in water Spectra Por 7 MWCO 3500 . The water was removed by rotary evaporation and the product was dried by lyophilization under vacuum to yield 1.84 g of solid dendrimer.

Testing Set Up as illustrated in . The aerosol chamber used for testing was assembled in house and modeled after a bioaerosol chamber designed and published by the US Army RDEC Natick Soldier Center Stote 2003 . The set up incorporates a Collison Nebulizer attached to a high pressure cylindrical glass chamber. At the head of the chamber right a three neck glass top is secured via a metal clamp. The sample is held between two plastic sheets that are clamped between the chamber and the glass top. A single outlet from the top is attached to an impinger containing buffer solution. The high pressure forces the aerosol to flow through the air filter and bubble through the buffer solution contained in the impingers and where the spores that penetrate the filter not shown are subsequently trapped.

Testing using aerosolized BG spores. The treated filter substrates were placed in the sample holder and the chamber tightly sealed using a metal clamp. The sporicidal efficacy was tested using spores BC which were obtained from the U.S. Army s Dugway Proving Grounds Facilities. Stock suspensions of BG spores in phosphate buffer saline were prepared 10 10and 10CFU mL . The impingers were filled with 150 mL of 0.02 M sodium thiosulfate phosphate buffer to sample the aerosol that passes through the filter. After 10 minutes the filter sample was removed placed in 25 mL of 0.02 M sodium thiosulfate phosphate buffer solution allowed to sit for 1 10 minutes and then vigorously shaken using a vortex machine for 5 minutes. Control samples were run with no filter and with uncoated filter substrates. For the neutralization experiments excess free chlorine was quenched using the sodium thiosulfate added to the buffer prior to analysis.

Culture Based Data Analysis. Standard plating techniques were employed to analyze the samples obtained from the impingers and from the filter substrates. Four to five serial dilutions of the stock BG suspension were prepared and a volume of 0.1 mL plated onto nutrient agar. Two or three volumes 1.0 ml 0.1 mL and 0.01 mL of the buffer samples were plated onto nutrient agar plates. All samples were incubated at 37 C. for 24 48 hours and counting techniques were used to determine the spore concentrations reported in Colony Forming Units per mL CFU mL and total spores counts .

Testing of efficacy of capture of G3 PAMAM quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimers coated onto MERV 8 rated air filter substrates. Test substrates were spray coated with 5 wt solutions in CHCl DMAC 1.6 1 of the quaternary ammonium PAMAM dendrimer prepared in Example 1 . The untreated filter was used as the control. Table 1 provides a summary of the data obtained from culture based analysis spore counts as colony forming units CFU of the tested filter substrate and samples collected from the two impingers connected in series.

Testing of efficacy of neutralization of G3 PAMAM N Halamine functionalized dendrimers coated onto vent air filter Web Products substrates. Data obtained for the filter samples treated with the N Halamine functionalized PAMAM dendrimer N HAL PAMAM is shown in Table 2.

The data in Table 2 shows 99.9 neutralization of spores on the coated N Halamine dendrimer filter and 80 reduction in the number of viable spores that penetrated the filter compared to the control uncoated filter.

Testing of capture and neutralization of a blend of G3 PAMAM quaternary ammonium functionalized dendrimer and 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantion DCDMH . Test substrates used were MERV 8 rated air filter substrates which were spray coated with solutions of the quaternary ammonium PAMAM dendrimer and DCDMH in CHCl DMAC 1.6 1 . The untreated filter was used as the control. Table 3 provides a summary of the data obtained from culture based analysis spore counts as colony forming units CFU of the tested filter substrate and samples collected from the two impingers connected in series after aerosolization for 10 minutes.

The data illustrates that N Halamine based compounds are effective sporicides for BG spores. The data shows after 10 minutes 96 neutralization of viable BG spores captured on the filters coated with a mixture of QUAT PAMAM dendrimer and DCDMH compared to the control uncoated filters. In addition the combination of the QAFD and N Halamine effectively reduces the number of viable spores that penetrate the filter.

Testing of the neutralization efficacy of 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin coated on a nominal size of 8 m poly styrene co divinylbenzene beads in air. First MS 2 virus was aerosolized in a 1 mchamber. Then the dry aerosols of the poly styrene co divinylbenzene beads coated with 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin were introduced into the chamber. The live population of MS 2 virus in the chamber was reduced to 0.1 and 0.001 of the initial population after 5 min and 10 min respectively See Table 4 .

Testing of the neutralization efficacy of 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin coated on a nominal size of 8 m poly styrene co divinylbenzene beads in water. BC spores and poly styrene co divinylbenzene beads coated with 1 3 dichloro 5 5 dimethylhydantoin were mixed in phosphate buffered saline solution. The viable spore counts after a certain exposure time were shown in Table 5.

Quaternization of the hyperbranched DSM Hybrane polymer with a hexahydrophthalic core and methyl piperazine endgroup using dodecyl iodine to yield quaternary ammonium hyperbranched polymer. We prepared a quaternary ammonium functionalized dendritic polymer with the following structure 

Table 6 summarizes data showing the neutralization of spores using the quaternary hyperbranched polymer shown in Example 9 in aqueous media.

Table 7 summarizes data showing the neutralization of spores using the quaternary hyperbranched polymer shown in Example 9. In this case the polymer was coated onto glass slides 2.5 cm 1 cm from a 10 wt methylene chloride solution. The slides were dried at room temperature overnight before testing.

Table 8 summarizes data showing the neutralization of spores using a 1 1 mixture of the quaternary hyperbranched polymer shown in Example 9 and DCDMH. In this case the mixture was coated onto glass slides 2.5 cm 1 cm from a 20 wt methylene chloride solution. The slides were dried at room temperature overnight before testing.

While preferred embodiments have been described in details variations may be made to these embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the attached claims.

