---

title: Data parsing with annotated patterns
abstract: The subject disclosure pertains to data parsing with patterns or regular expressions. A mechanism is provided for annotating a regular expression with additional information regarding data extraction such as output fields and mapping of the output fields to sub-sections of matched data. A parser can utilize the annotation information to facilitate mapping and transfer of at least a portion of pattern matched data from a source to a destination. The disclosed systems and methods thus enable data to be exacted while it is being matched.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860881&OS=07860881&RS=07860881
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07860881
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060309
---
This application is related to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 356 383 entitled VISUAL DESIGN OF ANNOTATED REGULAR EXPRESSION filed on Feb. 16 2006. The entirety of the above noted application is incorporated by reference herein.

Regular expressions or more generally patterns describe sets of character strings. The pattern determines character strings that belong to the set. Accordingly patterns can be employed to identify character strings for example to select specific strings from a set of character strings. Furthermore regular expressions are often defined as a context independent syntax that can represent a wide variety of character sets and character set orderings.

In operation regular expressions can be employed to search and match data based upon a predefined pattern or set of patterns. As such patterns employ a specific syntax by which particular characters or strings are selected from a body of text. More specifically the expressions can consist of constants and operators that denote sets of strings and operations over these sets respectively. Using the specific syntax of a regular expression or other pattern language advanced text pattern matching can be performed. The following table lists exemplary regular expression operators and their definitions. The syntax illustrated in the table is frequently employed to establish both simple and complex string pattern identifications.

Regular expressions are a useful tool in the data flow field which pertains to the movement and transformation of data to and amongst storage mediums. At present structured information is stored in data files of varied formats. The structure of information depends on the format and therefore varies from format to format. The structure is known to the author and is typically documented so that data in that format can be consumed by others. The state of the art in regular expressions allows one to define a regular expression for each such format that will match data units in files of corresponding format. This permits one to ensure that a data unit conforms to a given format and to find beginning and end of data units of a given format.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly described the subject innovation pertains to a structured data parsing. It has been recognized that conventional patterns such as regular expressions do not permit extraction of data fields from data until after the data is matched. The subject innovation provides mechanisms to extract data fields while they are being matched to a pattern. This is an advance from being able to match data units to a given format to being able to match data unit to a given format while simultaneously extracting data fields that constitute the data unit. Accordingly the innovation provides a valuable extension to conventional structured data parsing.

In accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation a mechanism is provided to define additional information concerning mapping of portions of data to a destination. More specifically a specified pattern or regular expression can be annotated with information such as a list of output data fields and a mapping of each output data field to at least a portion of the pattern.

According to another aspect of the subject innovation a pattern extraction system can employ the annotations to facilitate transfer of data to a designated output. To accomplish the forgoing the extraction system can employ a matching component to pattern match a mapping component to identify data to be extracted in accordance with an annotation and an output component to facilitate transfer of the data to a target location.

Also provided is an interface to facilitate interaction with the extraction system in accordance with yet another aspect of the subject innovation. For example an interface is provided that aids in generation of annotated patterns.

In one instance a visual mechanism e.g. user interface UI by which a user can design a pattern is disclosed. Because this novel UI provides a graphical interactive mechanism to design pattern as specified by a regular expression it can be particularly useful to enable a user to develop regular expressions without an understanding of the intricacies of the regular expression syntax.

In another aspect the innovation provides a UI by which a user can graphically annotate a regular expression thus mapping the expression to a particular tabulated output for instance. By way of example the annotations can be colored highlighted font formatted and the like. In operation the annotations can map a particular portion of a regular expression to a designated portion e.g. column of a tabulated output.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The various aspects of the subject innovation are now described with reference to the annexed drawings wherein like numerals refer to like or corresponding elements throughout. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component and system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an instance an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Similarly examples are provided herein solely for purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit the subject innovation or portion thereof in any manner. It is to be appreciated that a myriad of additional or alternate examples could have been presented but have been omitted for purposes of brevity.

As used herein the terms infer inference or variations in form thereof refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the subject innovation.

Furthermore all or portions of the subject innovation may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed innovation. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Referring initially to a data parsing system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. The system can be employed for a variety of purposes including but not limited to data flow file parsing. The system includes receiver component extraction component source and destination . The receiver component receives retrieves or otherwise obtains or acquires an annotated pattern and transmits the pattern to or makes the pattern accessible by extraction component .

As will be described further infra an annotated pattern is comprised of two main parts a pattern and an annotation. The pattern is a concise mechanism for identifying both simple and complex patterns of text. Among other things the pattern can include literal characters e.g. A B C 1 2 3 . . . or meta characters with special meaning e.g. match one or more . . . . The pattern can be employed by a process that matches text to the specified pattern by checking for the presence of constituents of the pattern. A plurality of different pattern languages can be employed to specify a pattern. For instance regular expressions can be utilized to construct a pattern for matching. By way of example a regular expression can be defined as customer id to match text that includes customer id followed by some other data such as a number.

The annotation is additional information associated with the pattern that pertains to data extraction. For instance the annotation can define one or more output locations and a mapping of the outputs to at least a portion of the pattern. Such information can be included within the pattern specification for example separated there from by one or more delimiters e.g. parentheses brackets slashes . . . .

The extraction component is operable to process a received or retrieved annotated pattern from receiver component . More specifically the extraction component can identify data in source that matches the pattern extract and persist one or more subsections of the matched data to a destination in accordance with the pattern annotation. The source and destination can both be the same or different computer readable mediums while the data housed thereon is likely of disparate formats. In accordance with an aspect of the innovation due at least in part to the pattern annotation data can be extracted by component substantially simultaneous with or while the data is being matched with the pattern. Thus the extraction component and therefore system is able to match data units to a given format while extracting portions of data constituting the data unit.

System can be extremely useful with respect to dataflow processing such as those employed to populate data warehouses. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the extraction system can be employed as a component of a larger workflow DTS Data Transformation Services or integration service system. Fore example the source can correspond to a proprietary file such as that associated with a store cash register and the destination can be a data warehouse. The source can be a log file including such things as customer id e.g. shopping card id time date total amount of transaction as well as information regarding items purchased like SKU price and number ordered. The problem is one of extracting proprietary formatted data from a log file and saving it to a tabular formatted data warehouse for later analysis. To solve this problem annotated patterns or annotated regular expressions can be developed either manually or automatically to define each record and map portions thereof to particular fields or columns of a data warehouse record. A simplistic exemplary regular expression could be customer id n. In this case is a special character so this expression will match any line in the file that looks like customer id some number followed by a newline This expression can be annotated to denote that data warehouse output column customer id is to be populated from character range to the next character of the expression here a newline. Assume the file includes

The extraction component can retrieve or consume 515 and write it out to the customer id column of the output.

Turning attention to a data parsing system is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation. System is comprised of system of and an interface component . The parsing system provides a mechanism to match map and transfer data to an output or destination. The system comprises the receiver component extraction component as well as data source and destination and respectively. The interface component facilitates interaction with the system . For example the interface component can be utilized to generate and provide annotated patterns. Additionally or alternatively the user interface can provide a mechanism to receive and resolve process errors and the like. The interface component can be but is not limited to being a graphical user interface GUI . Additionally the interface component can correspond to an application programming interface API to facilitate interaction with system .

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent. By way of example and not limitation monitor component can employ such mechanisms to facilitate error detection and correction.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Turning to a data parsing method is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the subject invention. At reference numeral an annotated pattern is received. As discussed supra and as the name suggests an annotated pattern includes both a pattern and an annotation. The pattern represents a text pattern that can be compared against data to identify matches. In one instance the pattern can be identified by a regular expression however the invention is not limited thereto. The annotation provides additional information with respect to the pattern such as information regarding extraction of at least a portion of matched data. At numeral matching data is identified based on a received pattern. The annotations are then analyzed to identify mapped data from the matching data at reference numeral . The mapped data can correspond to segments of the pattern matched data. At one or more mapped data segments are transferred or copied to the location designated by the annotation.

As an example an IT Internet Technology profession can generate annotated regular expressions associated with a file format which they designed or with which they are familiar. For example the file format can be associated with a transactional database or log. A novel parser perhaps associated with a workflow system can then employ the annotated expressions to populate a tabular database warehouse. More specifically the parsing system can be associated with a workflow package and run daily or nightly to retrieve data from a transactional database and populate the data warehouse.

What follows are systems and methods that facilitate generation and interaction with annotated patterns. Note that while certain orientations of displaying information to users are shown and described with respect to certain figures those skilled in the relevant art will recognize that various other alternatives can be employed. The pages screens or dialog boxes are stored and or transmitted as display descriptions as graphical user interfaces or by other methods of depicting information on a screen whether personal computer PDA mobile telephone or other suitable device for example where the layout and information or content to be displayed on the page is stored in memory database or another storage facility.

Referring to a system is depicted that facilitates visual design of a text pattern in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. Generally system can include a user interface UI component that enables a user to design and implement a text pattern with respect to data maintained in a data store in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. Although the system illustrated in depicts a single data store it is to be understood and appreciated that the subject UI can be employed to parse and extract data from any number of local or remote data stores repositories and the like.

More particularly the UI can include a data selection component and a rendering component . The data selection component can aid a user with respect to graphic selection of data from the data store component . As will be better understood upon a review of the figures and discussion that follow the data selection component can be used in connection with the rendering component to graphically render data and selected subsets thereof to a user.

In other words and in accordance with an aspect of the innovation the rendering component can graphically display all of the data or any subset thereof in accordance with a regular expression. The data selection component can include one or more selection mechanisms e.g. tools by which a user can graphically select and or identify data. In operation a user can employ the data selection component to select a subset of the data. In accordance therewith the rendering component can analyze the selection thereafter establishing a syntactical regular expression as well as a tabulated view of the data in accordance with the selection.

Additionally to assist further in the formulation of a tabulated view of the text pattern the data selection component can help a user to distinctly mark portions of the syntactical regular expression. In accordance therewith the rendering component can dynamically render a graphical representation of the marked regular expression via a tabulated or column view. Stated differently the regular expression can be annotated and the rendered data can be marked similarly in the graphical representation.

The subject innovation is directed to a novel mechanism that enables graphical design and generation of a regular expression. As well another feature of innovation described herein is directed to a mechanism that can dynamically render data in a manner that assists in the establishment and interpretation of a regular expression.

As described above the innovation can be particularly useful in parsing structured information. While the innovation can be used in connection with and is described herein with reference to data stored in a database it is to be understood that the novel features of the innovation can be employed in connection with any type of structured data e.g. flat files XML .

As will be understood there is a vast amount of data stored in text files that have different formats. By way of example one company may have data stored in one format while another company has data stored in another format. A problem that exists is how to read that data and get it into a common database. Conventionally a custom parser would have to be written to the desired format that is being read. Alternatively a variety of flexible parsers could be employed where the metadata for a particular file format can be defined. To this end in accordance with the metadata the parser can read the data.

As such a generalized parser can be employed that is driven by regular expressions that are annotated in a novel manner. Typically a regular expression defined by a user is employed to match some amount of data. However as described supra knowledge of the specific data type s format as well as a specialized parser would have to be employed. In accordance with this innovation a mechanism whereby a user can match an input stream to a regular expression while employing a set of annotations for the regular expression that map a region of the regular expression to a designated output column is disclosed.

Therefore as the system parses and thereafter compares to the input stream every time a character in the input stream matches the expression the innovation can display what range of the expression the matching character falls into based upon the annotation s . This graphical rendering is one of the novel features of the subject innovation.

At reference numeral a data view can be rendered which represents all or a subset of data in a store or group of stores. It will be understood and appreciated that the data view can be rendered in any manner without departing from the novel functionality of the innovation. Accordingly at data can be selected from the graphical representation of the data. In disparate aspect any mechanism known in the art can be employed to select the data.

By way of example in one aspect a mouse touchpad or other navigational device can be employed in order to effectuate a data selection. Similarly a keyboard touch screen or the like can be employed to make a particular selection. It is to be understood by those skilled in the art that any selection mechanism can be employed in accordance with the novel functionality described herein. These alternative aspects are to be included within the scope of this disclosure and claims appended hereto.

Once data is selected at a regular expression can be automatically generated at . This regular expression can be represented in the syntactical form in accordance with the selected data. In other words this regular expression can be rendered for display to a user in a syntactical manner.

In accordance with the auto generated regular expression data can be rendered e.g. displayed that represents an output data set based upon application of the regular expression upon the complete data set. It will be appreciated that the aforementioned acts describe one novel feature of the innovation graphical generation of a regular expression. As such it will be appreciated that a user does not have to know the intricate syntax of regular expressions. Rather the system can automatically generate a regular expression based upon a user data selection.

Another novel feature of the innovation is the ability to display an output of the regular expression when applied upon the complete data set. At numeral desired portions of the syntactical rendition of the regular expression can marked in a conspicuous manner such that when the data is rendered the rendered data is also marked in a similar conspicuous manner. In other words this method of marking can assist a user to validate the system generated regular expression.

By way of further example at an output of the data can be rendered in a table bearing the conspicuous markings. Once rendered a user can compare the rendered output to the system generated regular expression. To this end at a determination can be made if the output represents the desired data.

If at numeral the data does not represent the desired data the syntactical regular expression can be manually edited at . Accordingly the output data can dynamically update in accordance with any user defined edits as illustrated. As shown this process can be iterative until the user reaches the desired output data. Thus the syntactical regular expression can be generated without knowledge of the intricate syntax of regular expressions. On the other hand if at the data does represent the desired data this is an indication that the syntax of the system generated regular expression is correct and a stop block is reached.

Referring now to an alternative architectural block diagram of system is shown in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. More particularly illustrates three exemplary sub components of data selection component . These three sub components can facilitate marking of data and or regular expression syntax . Although particular marking sub components are shown in it is to be understood and appreciated that additional marking options exist and are to be included within the scope of the innovation described herein. To this end these additional marking sub components are to be included within the scope of this disclosure and claims appended hereto.

As shown in the exemplary block diagram of data selection component can include a coloring component a highlighting component and a font format component . In operation each of these sub components can be employed to conspicuously annotate data and or segments of a regular expression. By way of example conspicuous annotation of the regular expression can enable the system render tabulated data that employs the identical conspicuous markings. In other words the conspicuous annotations can effectively map or link a portion of the regular expression to some subset of the data.

In another example an annotation sub component e.g. and can be employed to annotate or re annotate data such that the system generated regular expression can be updated modified accordingly. As described supra this novel annotation scheme can assist a user in graphically establishing an accurate regular expression of a particular data subset.

Referring now to yet another alternative architectural diagram of system is shown. Specifically illustrates that rendering component can include a number of sub components that effect rendering data in accordance with a regular expression. Generally in accordance with the aspect illustrated rendering component can include an analyzer component a data view component an expression view component and a table view component . Each of these components will be described in greater detail below. As well that follows illustrates an exemplary graphical UI display in accordance with an aspect of the innovation.

As described above a user can make a selection of data from a data view. For example a user can use a navigation device touch screen stylus keyboard or the like to make a desired data element selection. Once selected an analyzer component can be employed to analyze the selection and thereafter automatically generate a system generated regular expression.

The data view component can be employed to graphically render a view of a specified or determined data store or collection. The expression view can be employed to display the syntactical regular expression generated via the analyzer component . Additionally the table view component can be employed to represent conspicuously annotated data in a tabulated format.

In operation once a pattern is annotated the system can follow the directions of the annotation as described supra. For example the annotation can direct the system to write a particular character or group of characters to an output column.

In sum the subject innovation discloses a system and methodology to visually via a UI design create and implement annotated regular expressions. Additionally the subject innovation discloses a novel UI that can be employed to simplify the generation modification and or verification of these novel regular expression annotations.

As shown in the graphical UI can include a data view area an expression view area and a data view area . Each of these areas has been described in detail supra. In summary each of these areas can be dynamic with respect to the others. By way of example as data is selected within the data view area the expression view area can be dynamically updated to reflect a system generated regular expression that corresponds to the selected data.

Similarly as the regular expression is updated and or modified in the expression view area the table view area can likewise be dynamically updated. Moreover as annotations are applied to the regular expression in the expression view area these annotations can be dynamically rendered within the table view area and vice versa.

As shown in the exemplary UI can also include a data selection tool area . More particularly this data tool area can be employed to render a graphical link to data tools including but not limited to selection and annotation tools e.g. coloring highlighting .

As will be understood this UI can be very intuitive and can make it easy for a user to generate regular expression and to employ annotations associated therewith. In other words the novel UI can enable a user to generate and verify a regular expression without knowing the underlying syntax of the regular expression. One way that this novel UI can be employed is by presenting a user with a visual representation as shown in .

Following are a few examples of the novel features of the innovation. These examples are provided in order to add context to the innovation and are not intended to limit the innovation in any way. As described above within the graphical dialog box the UI can employ several panels e.g. areas . For example and as described above in greater detail one panel can be a data panel that represents a data view. In accordance therewith a user can make a selection of particular text represented within the data view. Once selected a user can apply an annotation e.g. marking color to the selected text.

In this example the coloring can serve to distinguish ranges. Upon interpreting data in a text file the data can be first divided into a number of rows. Continuing with the example a user could first select all of the text that represents a particular row. Next the data can be annotated and the annotation can be uniquely marked. It is to be understood and appreciated that forms of marking including but not limited to font characteristics e.g. bold italics underline size or other highlighting or coloring can be employed without departing from the spirit and or scope of the innovation. These alternative marking mechanisms are to be included within the scope of this disclosure and claims appended hereto.

In operation and continuing with the example a user can employ any hierarchical marking where the widest marking of level one is effected first. Within this level one marking the user can then select additional text that can represent individual columns. These individual columns can also be marked e.g. colored as desired. In other words column one can be one color column two can be another and so on. As these markings are made in the data view an expression view can display a system generated syntactical regular expression that potentially matches the range outlined via the visual selections.

By way of more specific example suppose a user has a text file that represents the text for a book in this example the user can make a selection of any desired text from the data view that represents all of the text included within the book. Continuing with the example the user can select the first word and the space after that word. Thus the system can automatically generate a regular expression that matches the expression.

In accordance therewith one expression the system would generate could be an asterisk followed by a space for example   . It will be understood that this regular expression can yield any number of characters followed by a space when applied to a data set. Further if this regular expression is applied to the file it would yield rows with one column where the single column would be of a string type and each row would include an instance of a single word.

In another example a user can select two words and a space. Accordingly the system would interpret this selection and present a potential regular expression e.g.     in the expression view area. When applied to the file a result in two word strings would be generated for example the first row would be the first two words the second two words would be the second row and so forth.

Here in the expression there are two ranges the first asterisk and the second asterisk . As described above the innovation can facilitate application of annotations within this regular expression. In accordance with the novel functionality of the innovation these annotations can be applied via a novel UI as described herein. In other words the innovation can enable graphical creation of a mapping of the sub expressions to an output column.

Returning to the example of the regular expression     the two s can be considered the sub expressions. Therefore within the UI a third control can be employed that shows the output column control e.g. table view area . In accordance therewith a user can click and drag a selection from the data view or from the expression view to an output column view or list. Thus a linkage can be established thereby annotating the regular expression with respect to a particular output column. In other words the annotation can define that a particular selection of the regular expression is in fact data for an output column. The particular output column can be defined by where the sub expression is dragged within the column view.

Additionally the novel UI can include additional controls that enable adding and or removing output columns. As well controls can be provided that enable setting the types of the output columns. Other UI controls can be employed to further enhance the novelty and usefulness of the UI described herein. These additional controls will be understood by those skilled in the art and are to be included within the scope of this disclosure and claims appended hereto.

One novel feature of the innovation is the actual graphical depiction of the data which enables a user to visually interpret the data with respect to a regular expression. Another novel feature of the innovation is the graphical rendering of the regular expression as well as the establishment of the syntactical regular expression within the expression view. Accordingly a user can prompt an interpretation of how a regular expression will apply to all of the rows in a data view.

It will be appreciated that an error can be generated if the system established regular expression is not correct. Accordingly the system will enable a user to manually modify the system generated regular expression as desired. Once a user changes the expression syntax within the expression view the coloring within the data view will dynamically change in accordance with the modifications. In other words once selections are changed in the data view the expression within the expression view dynamically changes. Similarly if a change is manually made to the syntax within the expression view the data view automatically updates to match.

In summary as described in detail above the innovation provides a user with a graphical tool that facilitates design of a regular expression. As will be understood regular expressions are sometimes difficult for even the most experienced computer savvy users. Oftentimes a reference must be on hand to know all of the available characters available within the syntax of regular expressions. As well oftentimes repetitive testing is required in order to reach a desired output data set in accordance with the regular expression. Thus the innovation simplifies this complexity by enabling any user to graphically generate regular expressions while dynamically viewing results in accordance with selections.

In other words the system can render a graphical view that identifies parts of the data e.g. text that match parts of the regular expression. With reference again to the example above if the regular expression is     each can be marked in a unique manner e.g. color . As such the text in the output would be colored in accordance with the coloring. In the example suppose the first is red and the second is blue. In accordance therewith the output would represent a red word followed by a blue word throughout.

Furthermore suppose that the system generated regular expression does not yield the desired output. Rather suppose the user would prefer to achieve a tabulated output with two words followed by a single word. Accordingly the regular expression could be modified to be       where the first two s can be marked with red and the third can be marked with blue. In accordance therewith the output would show two red words mapped to a first column followed by a blue word mapped to another column throughout. It will be understood that this modification can be made either within the syntactical view of the of the expression view or graphically within the data view e.g. by coloring two words red followed by a blue word .

Referring now to yet another alternative system that facilitates graphical authoring of a regular expression is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. As shown system can include a heuristics component that can automate one or more features of the innovation. More particularly the heuristics component can automate one or more features of the system based at least in part upon historical probabilistic and or statistical analysis. In operation the heuristics component can facilitate logic and or reasoning e.g. artificial intelligence AI in order to automate one or more novel features of the innovation.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed innovation can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer e.g. desktop laptop server hand held programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available microprocessors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 11 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like displays e.g. flat panel and CRT speakers and printers among other output devices that require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems power modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards or components.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has or having or variations in form thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

