---

title: Method and system for transmitting an address into an electronic form for a participant of a communication link
abstract: A method and a system for transferring a PIM-address in an electronic formula of a PIM-application, based on a communication connection between end devices of subscribers in a communication system are provided. A communication system address, which identifies the second end device, detects user input of a first subscriber. The detected communication system-address is converted into a PIM address which identifies a second subscriber, the PIM-address to the PIM-application and the transferred PIM-address is input into a field of the electronic formula of the PIM-application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139511&OS=08139511&RS=08139511
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications GmbH & Co. KG
number: 08139511
owner_city: Munich
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20060707
---
This application is the US National Stage of International Application No. PCT EP2006 064020 filed Jul. 7 2006 and claims the benefit thereof. The International Application claims the benefits of German application No. 102005041369.2 DE filed Aug. 31 2005 both of the applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a transmission of an address into an electronic form for a participant of a communication link

It is a frequent occurrence in the case of modern office workplaces that a telephone conference is initiated by way of a telephone private branch exchange in order to implement meetings between employees. In this respect a telephone conference can be convened on an ad hoc basis or be fixed for a specific appointment on a scheduled basis.

So called PIM Personal Information Management systems or collaboration systems also referred to as groupware are frequently employed for planning meeting appointments. As at the time of the patent application representatives of such systems comprise for example the products Lotus Notes and Microsoft Exchange. PIM systems provide functions for planning a meeting where normally a user of the PIM System enters desired participants of a meeting the period for the meeting and further information such as the agenda for the meeting in an electronic form of a PIM client or a PIM application on a computer.

The participants of a meeting are frequently identified by way of their e mail addresses in such PIM systems so that after the electronic form has been filled out and sent an e mail can be transferred to the desired participants of the meeting with the further data on the electronic form. The desired participants of the meeting then receive an invitation to the meeting in their respective PIM application which they can then agree to or decline.

Usually at office workplaces meetings such as telephone conferences are scheduled manually by means of user inputs by way of the PIM system. In spite of being supported by the PIM system the scheduling of such meetings frequently requires many manual steps e.g. ascertaining e mail addresses for the purposes of sending the meeting inquiry to the meeting participants and determining the telephone numbers of the meeting participants for the purposes of implementing the telephone conference.

The object of the invention is to specify a method and a system for transmitting a PIM address into an electronic form of a PIM application of a PIM system in which a filling out of a form of a PIM application by a participant is simplified.

In the case of the inventive method for transmitting a PIM address into an electronic form of a PIM application of a PIM system in which a communication link in particular for voice exists between a first end device of a first participant and a second end device of a second participant in a communication system in particular a circuit based or packet based real time communication system a communication system address which identifies the second end device in the context of the communication link is captured as a result of a user input of the first participant. The captured communication system address is converted into a PIM address for the PIM system which address identifies the second participant. The PIM address is transferred to the PIM application of the first participant. The transferred PIM address is entered in a field of the electronic form of the PIM application.

For the purposes of carrying out the method steps referred to in the foregoing the inventive system provides an input means for detecting the user input a data capture unit for capturing the communication system address a conversion unit for converting the captured communication system address into the PIM address a transfer unit for transferring the PIM address to the PIM application of the first participant and a form filling unit for entering the transferred PIM address into a field of the electronic form of the PIM application.

Preferably the user input of the first participant can be implemented during or after implementation of the communication link at the first end device or by using the PIM application of the first participant. In this respect the user input can comprise in particular a key press on the first end device an input of a code number by way of the first end device a selection of a menu item on a menu of the first end device or an activation of a button or a menu item of a graphical user interface of the first end device or the PIM application.

The end devices can comprise in particular telephone terminals of a private branch exchange mobile communication terminals fixed network telephones on exchange lines of the private branch exchange and or so called telephone soft clients on a computer. The PIM address can preferably comprise an e mail address and the communication system address in particular a directory number or a line number of a terminal.

The PIM system can preferably comprise a client server computer system in which participants can utilize functions of the PIM system by way of respective PIM applications also referred to in the following as PIM clients. In this respect functions can comprise the electronic management of tasks appointments e mails and or electronic notes of a respective participant. The PIM application by which a participant can control these functions can be run in particular on a PC a PDA and or a mobile communication terminal. A commercial example of a PIM system would be Microsoft Outlook as the PIM client and Microsoft Exchange as the PIM server of the PIM system.

The invention is advantageous to the extent that a form field that needs to be filled out with a PIM address can be entered automatically for a participant of a communication link. This is based on the experience that for the second participant of a voice communication link at the same time as the voice communication link or preferably close in time after the termination of the voice communication link the PIM address of the second participant of the voice communication link needs to be entered in a form of the PIM system e.g. in the context of the compilation of a record of a discussion or for scheduling a further future voice communication link and this would be carried out manually by the first participant without the inventive method. The quantity of steps to be carried out manually is therefore lessened by the invention which results in increased efficiency and faster filling out of the electronic form. Furthermore incorrect input of PIM addresses can be reduced.

An implementation of the foregoing method steps after the termination of the communication link is possible in particular if a CTI application is informed about all implemented links of the switching system and if it is advised of the participants of the links. The CTI application can therefore ascertain the participants of a link even after the termination of that communication link. In this respect the CTI application can comprise a component of the switching system or be connected to it.

An ascertainment of the PIM address without using the inventive method frequently proves to be difficult since a direct allocation between communication system address and PIM address is frequently not stored either in the PIM system or in the communication system. The invention therefore facilitates the ascertainment of the PIM address.

In an advantageous embodiment of the invention the electronic form can comprise an appointment inquiry form and or a meeting inquiry form it being possible to send the meeting inquiry form manually or automatically and as a result of this it is transferred to the participants entered in the meeting inquiry form as a meeting inquiry.

Furthermore the communication link can be configured as a conference circuit with at least three participants. By way of advantage therefore a field can be filled out with PIM addresses of desired participants of a future meeting or an address field of participants who need to be informed based on the participants of a current conference circuit.

This is advantageous to the extent that in the case of meetings and telephone conferences the wish can frequently arise during or after the meeting to consult again with all or some participants of the meeting. In this respect it is normally necessary for the purposes of scheduling the further meeting that a participant of the telephone conference has to manually ascertain or ask for the e mail addresses of the participants of the current telephone conference for the purposes of filling out the form in the PIM application and furthermore has to enter them manually in the form. By way of advantage this can be carried out in an automated manner in the embodiment of the invention referred to in the foregoing.

In an advantageous development of the invention participant data can be stored in a database of a Directory Service in particular an LDAP service LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol . An interrogation of the participant data of the second participant by the Directory Service can be carried out in the context of the conversion of the communication system address into the PIM address. This is advantageous to the extent that in the case of companies data about employees of the company and possibly likewise data about external partners of the company can already be stored in a central LDAP database for other purposes and therefore this already existing data can likewise be used in the context of the invention. It is furthermore advantageous that this data therefore just needs to be stored once and a configuration of this data in the PIM system and or in the communication system is not required.

Data of this type about the employees or external partners comprises in particular the last name first name a directory number an alternative mobile communication directory number an employee number an e mail address and or a postal office address. In particular the directory number as the communication system address and the e mail address as the PIM address can be retrieved from the database in the context of the invention and processed further.

In this respect a first directory number RUFNO is allocated to the first telephone EG a second directory number RUFNO to the second telephone EG and an allocated third directory number RUFNO to the third telephone EG.

In this respect the subscriber lines AL for connecting end devices EG EG within a corporate network and the exchange line TL for connecting an end device EG from outside the corporate network are represented as solid lines.

The data communication system encompasses a CTI application CTIA CTI Computer Telephony Integration connected to the switching system PBX a first second and third workstation computer PC PC PC respectively represented as a rectangle and a Directory Service LDAP depicted as a cylinder. The CTI application CTIA the first and second workstation computers PC PC and the Directory Service LDAP are interconnected by way of a local area network LAN depicted by means of a dashed line. The third workstation computer PC is connected to the local area network LAN by way of an external IP network IPN in particular the global data network frequently referred to as the Internet shown in stylized form as a cloud this connection being represented by means of a dashed line.

The connection between the CTI application CTIA and the switching system PBX is effected by way of a CTI interface CTIS represented as a solid line between these two components.

Messages and data links between and within the components referred to in the foregoing are represented by means of solid arrowed lines with an arrow at one end or an arrow at both ends. These comprise in particular a key press message M between an end device and the switching system PBX a CTI message CTIM between the switching system PBX and the CTI application CTIA an interrogation message Q of the CTI application CTIA to the Directory Service LDAP an activation message I of the CTI application CTIA to a workstation computer and a message F for filling out an electronic form between components of a workstation computer.

A circuit based or packet based communication link RUF for voice between the end devices EG EG EG and the switching system PBX is represented by means of a dotted line with an arrow at both ends. A conference circuit CONF of the voice communication links RUF is represented in stylized form by using an ellipse around the switching system side ends of these dotted lines within the switching system PBX.

A participant table TAB of a database of the Directory Service LDAP is depicted by means of diagonally offset overlapping rectangles one rectangle representing a respective data record of the participant table TAB. By way of example a data record containing the following data is specified within one of the rectangles 

A first PIM application PIMA  running on the first workstation computer PC a second PIM application PIMA  running on the second workstation computer PC a third PIM application PIMA  running on the third workstation computer PC a first proxy application T  running on the first workstation computer PC and a second proxy application T  running on the second workstation computer PC are depicted as rectangles within their respective workstation computers PC PC PC. In this respect the data exchange between the PIM applications PIMA  PIMA  PIMA  and a PIM server not represented is effected by way of the local area network LAN.

In this respect the PIM server comprises in particular a central server for managing and storing appointments e mails and contacts for example Microsoft Exchange. The PIM applications PIMA  PIMA  PIMA  comprise clients of this server for user input from a participant of the PIM server for example in order to schedule an appointment. This comprises for example Microsoft Outlook.

The proxy applications T  T  comprise for example applications running permanently on the respective workstation computer PC PC that can respond to messages from the CTI application CTIA by way of a socket of the computer for example and can transfer information from the said application to the respective PIM application PIMA  PIMA  and can initiate an opening of a form of the PIM application PIMA  PIMA . The use of proxy applications is of particular advantage if already existing products such as Microsoft Outlook are employed as PIM applications which products have no interface to the CTI application CTIA.

The switching system PBX and the telephones EG EG EG would be provided for real time communication while the PIM system and the PIM application PIMA  PIMA  PIMA  are normally and in the present exemplary embodiment provided for non real time communication.

Let it be assumed that a workplace of a first participant encompasses the first telephone EG and the first workstation computer PC and a data record for the first participant has been configured in the participant table TAB of the Directory Service LDAP. It is correspondingly assumed that a workplace of a second participant encompasses the second telephone EG and the second workstation computer PC and a data record for the second participant has been configured in the participant table TAB and also that a workplace of a third participant encompasses the third telephone EG and the third workstation computer PC and a data record for the third participant has been configured in the participant table TAB. It is furthermore assumed that the second participant comprises the person named Heinz Klein and the configured data record in the participant table TAB is the person named in the foregoing.

The starting situation in is the established telephone conference circuit CONF as a voice communication link between the three participants by way of their respective telephones EG EG EG. While the conference circuit CONF is being implemented or following on from this the wish arises among the participants that the three participants exchange views again at a later time by using a conference circuit. In order to schedule a future conference circuit or a future meeting the first participant presses an identified key on his first telephone EG as an input means. As a result of this user input of the first participant the key press message M is transferred from the first telephone EG to the switching system PBX. Then a service feature is activated in the switching system PBX in the context of which the CTI message CTIM is transferred from the switching system PBX to the CTI application CTIA by way of the CTI interface CTIS. The CTI message CTIM preferably encompasses the directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO RUFNO of all the participants of the conference circuit CONF and possibly further switching system specific and or link specific data. In this respect the connection by way of the CTI interface CTIS would be effected in particular by using the CSTA protocol CSTA Computer Supported Telecommunications Application standardized by the ECMA European Computer Manufacturers Association by way of which the CTI application CTIA is informed about states and changes of state of the switching system PBX.

In this respect the CTI application CTIA can run on a dedicated computer in the switching system PBX or on one of the workstation computers PC PC PC represented.

As a data capture unit the CTI application CTIA captures the directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO RUFNO transferred in the CTI message CTIM captures the allocation of the directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO RUFNO to the telephones EG EG EG and captures which of the telephones EG in the present exemplary embodiment the key press has been carried out on. In this case the directory number RUFNO of the second telephone EG for example 1212 in particular is captured as the communication system address this directory number RUFNO being allocated to the second telephone EG and therefore identifying the second telephone EG.

In a subsequent method step the captured directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO RUFNO are converted into a uniform format by the CTI application CTIA e.g. into a so called fully qualified directory number into a so called canonical address format or into a format with national code local network code equipment number and or extension number. For the directory number RUFNO of the second telephone EG this comprises for example 49 891212.

By interrogating this possibly converted directory number RUFNO by using the interrogation message Q from the CTI application CTIA to the Directory Service LDAP associated data is retrieved by way of the participant table TAB with respect to the captured directory number RUFNO and delivered back to the CTI application CTIA. For the data record specified in the foregoing this comprises the e mail address heinz firma.de as the PIM address of the PIM system. Furthermore a computer IP address can also be delivered back 192.1.27.3 for the specified example data record which comprises the IP address of the workstation computer PC.

In a similar manner the corresponding data is also ascertained for the directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO of the first and third telephones EG EG and in particular converted into the associated e mail addresses which identify the respective participants.

Together with the Directory Service LDAP the CTI application CTIA therefore represents a conversion unit for converting a captured communication system address into a PIM address for the PIM system which address identifies the respective participant of the end device.

In this respect the Directory Service LDAP is preferably based on a database with a listing structure access being effected by way of the LDAP protocol. The database preferably forms part of a so called User Management System that manages all the employees of a company e.g. the first and second participants and also external contact persons e.g. the third participant centrally in the corporate network and provides standardized access to the data by way of the LDAP protocol.

Once the CTI application CTIA has captured the directory numbers RUFNO RUFNO the PIM addresses PIMA  PIMA  the last names of the participants and the computer IP addresses of the conference participants the CTI application CTIA sends the activation message Ito the proxy application T  of the workstation computer PC of the first participant who implemented the user input by way of the first telephone EG. In this respect the proxy application T  comprises a permanently running process or one that is started up or reactivated by the CTI application CTIA.

The addressing of the proxy application T  is effected for example by way of the ascertained computer IP address for the first participant and a predefined port number. In the context of the activation message I for example by way of a so called Remote Procedure Call RPC the ascertained data in particular the e mail addresses of the participants of the conference circuit is transferred to the proxy application T .

The proxy application T  running on the workstation computer PC receives the activation message I and transfers the data contained in the activation message Ito the first PIM application PIMA  on the same workstation computer PC that is to say in particular the e mail addresses of the participants also. This transfer can be effected for example by means of a program call of the first PIM application PIMA  by means of interprocess communication or by means of an exchange of messages. In this is depicted by means of the message F from the proxy application T  to the first PIM application PIMA .

Together with the proxy application T  the CTI application CTIA therefore represents a transfer unit for transferring the PIM address to a PIM application.

In a further method step the PIM application PIMA  is started up if it is not yet active this and further steps are not represented in . An electronic meeting inquiry form is opened and displayed on a screen not represented of the first computer PC. The e mail addresses of the participants are transferred to the PIM application PIMA  and in particular entered in the fields of the potential participants of the meeting. In the present exemplary embodiment therefore the e mail address heinz firma.de in particular is entered in the meeting inquiry form.

If the e mail addresses of all the conference circuit participants are entered in the meeting inquiry form it is then particularly easy for the first participant to schedule a follow up meeting with just a few remaining manual steps by expanding the previously filled out meeting inquiry form in particular with an appointment and textual information e.g. a subject or an agenda and subsequently terminating the editing of the meeting inquiry form. The PIM system then distributes a meeting inquiry based on the e mail addresses specified in the meeting inquiry form to the PIM applications PIMA  PIMA  of the second and third participants and optionally to the PIM application PIMA  of the first participant filling out the meeting inquiry form.

The PIM application PIMA  and or the proxy application T  therefore represent a form filling unit for entering a transferred PIM address into a field of the electronic form of the PIM application.

With the method steps detailed in the foregoing therefore the scheduling of a meeting is simplified and less prone to error since fewer manual steps than usual are carried out. Furthermore a time saving is also produced in the case of the scheduling of meetings.

In the case of the use of templates and or rules for further fields of the meeting inquiry form it is possible to achieve the situation that as a further method step the meeting inquiry form immediately fills out all the further fields automatically on the basis of the template terminates the editing of the meeting inquiry form automatically and sends the meeting inquiry.

This is enabled in particular by means of the use of an automatic selection function of the PIM system for the meeting appointment. This can be used e.g. in order to find the next possible meeting appointment. For example the appointment closest in time that is labeled as available for the first and the second participant in common can be entered as the meeting appointment by means of the PIM system and or by activation by the proxy application T  it being possible to observe predefinable limit conditions such as an exclusion of specific time bands for example during the night or at the weekend. In this respect time bands labeled as available in common would be those for which no appointments at all are stored in the PIM system for any of the participants.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention an electronic form can be opened for the purposes of compiling a manual record of the meeting the names of the participants and or the period of the meeting already implemented being entered automatically in the text. To this end the CTI application CTIA ascertains the names of the participants by way of the Directory Service LDAP and the duration of the conference by way of the CTI interface CTIS of the switching system PBX and enters this information in fields of the meeting form. Furthermore an audio recording of the conference can also be generated by way of the CTI application CTIA which can likewise be transferred to the record keeping participant together with the aforementioned information.

The telephones EG and EG in the present exemplary embodiment comprise terminals of the switching system PBX while the third telephone EG comprises an external telephone e.g. a mobile communication telephone. In this respect the advantageous inclusion of telephones outside the switching system PBX is based on the fact that the participant table TAB is also configured for the external directory numbers of the external telephones telephone EG with directory number RUFNO in the exemplary embodiment and every external directory number is allocated an e mail address EMAIL in this instance .

Furthermore a one to one allocation of a directory number of an end device of a participant to one participant and to one e mail address preferably exists in order thereby to facilitate an interrogation of the participant table TAB. In the case of ambiguities the table structure of the participant table TAB should preferably implement a differentiation into main and secondary directory number and also main and secondary e mail address and carry out the conversion of the main and secondary directory number to the main e mail address.

As an alternative to the foregoing method steps the user input can also be activated by means of an application on the workstation computer PC associated with the first telephone EG. Furthermore a direct data link can also exist between the first telephone EG and the first workstation computer PC or the association of a workstation computer to a telephone can be effected on the basis of a configuration or a registration.

In an inventive expansion of the present exemplary embodiment a sending of the meeting inquiry form filled out with a time period can instigate a conference server of the communication system to reserve a communication system address of the first participant and the communication system address of the second participant for a conference circuit in the specified period and or to call the first participant and the second participant at the beginning of the period. To this end the CTI application CTIA can transfer not only the PIM addresses but also the communication system addresses of the participants to the respective PIM application PIMA  PIMA  by way of one of the proxy applications T  T . Furthermore the PIM system or the conference server can transfer a confirmatory e mail to the participants of the future conference circuit for example with a specification of access data to the conference of the conference server.

While the invention has been explained on the basis of a voice link or voice conference in the exemplary embodiment the communication link can also comprise a video link a video conference or a similar link between two or more communication partners.

Furthermore as an alternative to the embodiment represented the invention can also be realized in a corresponding manner for a gateway and or a gatekeeper of a packet based communication network with a circuit switched switching system PBX.

