---

title: Antibodies with simultaneous subsite specificities to protein and lipid epitopes
abstract: Antibodies and method of making antibodies, either monoclonal or polyclonal wherein said antibodies have dual or multi-specific binding capacity to more than one type of antigenic epitope. The antibodies have simultaneous or independent recognition subsites to each of the epitopes. Antigenic epitopes include lipids, peptides, proteins, amino acid sequences, sugars and carbohydrates. Monoclonal antibodies and a method of making monoclonal antibodies of the invention include monoclonal antibodies that are broadly neutralizing to HIV-1 or other envelop viruses wherein the monoclonal antibody has subsites that simultaneously recognize protein and lipid epitopes from the virus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09119828&OS=09119828&RS=09119828
owner: The United States of America as represented by The Secretary of the Army
number: 09119828
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060922
---
This invention is based on and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 722 084 filed Sep. 23 2005 incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a method of making dual specific antibodies. More specifically the present invention relates to a method of making antibodies that are dual specific to both 1 amino acid sequences and 2 solid phase lipid structures. The present invention has relevance to such important subject matter as making broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies to HIV 1.

One of the major barriers that have emerged in the development of an effective HIV 1 vaccine is the difficulty in obtaining neutralizing antibodies that block infection by primary isolates derived from a wide cross section of clades subtypes . In order to obtain broadly neutralizing or protective antibodies to HIV 1 it is necessary for antibodies to utilize antigenic epitopes i.e. molecular recognition sites for binding of antibodies that are conserved in the virus or that are present in the host or target cell in the regions in which the virus either buds or where binding or fusion with the virus occurs McMichael Hanke 2003 Burton et al. 2004 . Most mammalian cells have a relatively conserved repertoire of lipids in the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane including glyceryl phospholipids sphingosyl phospholipids mainly sphingomyelin lysophospholipids glycosphingolipids and cholesterol.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 HIV 1 is an enveloped virus with a lipid bilayer that contains several glycoproteins that are anchored in or closely associated with the membrane surface. The envelope proteins have complex interactions with the lipids both on the host cells and on the target cells. The processes of budding from host cells and entry into target cells occur at sites on the plasma membrane known as lipid rafts that represent specialized regions that are rich in cholesterol and sphingolipids. Although the envelope glycoproteins are antigenic molecules that potentially might be used for development of broadly neutralizing antibodies in a vaccine to HIV 1 the development of such antibodies that have broad specificities against primary isolates of virus have been largely thwarted to date by the ability of the envelope proteins to evade the immune system through various mechanisms.

It has been known for more than 20 years that monoclonal antibodies can have subsite specificities that simultaneously recognize different epitopes such as simultaneous recognition of different types of carbohydrates or combinations of carbohydrate and sulfated molecules or carbohydrates and phosphorylated molecules. These subsites for different epitopes exist simultaneously in the same overall antigen binding site of the antibody. In our research we have found polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies to membrane associated lipid antigens that also contain subsites that recognize unrelated phosphate or sulfated molecules as an epitope. We have also found that numerous membrane associated protein antigens have subsites that also recognize phosphate and even cross react with phospholipids. However this research has not produced a monoclonal antibody that is broadly neutralizing to HIV 1.

Therefore an object of the present invention was to make antibodies that have dual specific action by recognizing as antigens or epitopes both 1 amino acid sequences such as proteins peptides and polypeptides and also 2 solid phase lipid structures such as lipids liposomes and the like so that the antibody will have greater affinity for these antigens or epitopes at the surface of target organisms or cells. The amino acid sequences and solid phase lipid structures may be from entities such as viruses bacteria cancer cells hormones or any other substance that produces an immune response wherein both 1 and 2 are capable of being recognized individually or together i.e. simultaneously by the antibody.

Another object of the invention was to apply this strategy to obtain antibodies that are broadly neutralizing to HIV 1 because they have subsites that recognize both protein and lipid or carbohydrate antigenic epitopes that are present either on the virus or on the budding site receptor site or fusion site of the plasma membrane.

In the case of HIV 1 this is necessary for the antibody to have dual specificity with the HIV 1 protein and with the plasma membrane of the host cell in the vicinity of the HIV 1 virus. In the case of other entities that produce an immune response the antibodies will either be to the lipids themselves or to the combined lipid and amino acid sequences. The antibodies will either interfere with the entity through steric hindrance or through conformational changes in the lipids that will interfere with the viability of the entity or that will activate complement or other types of innate immunity as an effecter mechanism.

The invention solves the problems associated with the past lack of ability to find antibodies that are broadly neutralizing. In the case of HIV 1 the invention solves the problem by showing that patterns of plasma membrane lipids known as lipid rafts serve as binding sites not only for viral interactions with host and target cells but also as lipids that might be incorporated into HIV 1 to comprise the lipid bilayer of the virus envelope and exploiting this knowledge to produce monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies that recognize these lipids as well as HIV 1 peptides. This invention will have particular relevance for HIV vaccine research and development and for the treatment of HIV 1 and for research vaccine development and treatment of other enveloped viruses.

The present invention relates to a method of making dual specific antibodies. More specifically the present invention relates to a method of making antibodies that are dual specific for binding to both 1 amino acid sequences and 2 organized lipid structures such as lipids present in a lipid bilayer membrane.

The present invention is also directed to a method of making monoclonal antibodies by obtaining liposomes having lipid epitopes similar to those present on HIV 1 and modifying the liposomes by including an adjuvant in the liposomes or by injecting the liposomes together with an adjuvant and such liposomes also contain protein or peptide epitopes from HIV 1 virus. The liposomes contain lipid combinations comprising cholesterol sphingomyelin charged phospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine galactosyl ceramide or sulfogalactosyl ceramide to name a few of the lipids from the lipid raft region of the plasma membrane. Then the liposomes are inserted into a mammal to produce monoclonal antibodies against the liposomes. The monoclonal antibodies have simultaneous recognition subsites to lipid epitopes in the liposome and to the protein of HIV 1 virus.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The accompanying drawings show illustrative embodiments of the invention from which these and other of the objectives novel features and advantages will be readily apparent.

The method of the present invention applies to the making of monoclonal antibodies and antibodies that have dual specificity and are broadly neutralizing. The dual specificity is obtained by making monoclonal antibodies and polyclonal antibodies that recognize both 1 amino acid sequences such as amino acid sequences of one or more of proteins peptides and polypeptides and 2 organized lipid domains including solid phase lipid structures such as one or more types of lipids liposomes or the like.

The method involves obtaining an organized lipid structure that has lipid properties that resemble or mimic the lipids found in a particular entity. Entities include viruses bacteria hormones fungi protozoa cancer cells or anything else that produces an antibody when introduced to a mammal. Then added to the organized lipid structure are amino acid sequences that resemble or mimic amino acid sequences from peptide epitopes polypeptides proteins or the like. This modified lipid structure is then inserted into a mammal to induce an immune response which is the production of antibodies that are dual specific to the lipids and amino acid sequences in the modified organized lipid structure. Optionally and preferred is to also incorporate an adjuvant into the modified solid phase lipid structure.

Murine antibodies were made by injecting mice with liposomes containing lipid A and protein from HIV 1 either gp 160 gp 120 gp140 or gp 41 . The preferred antibody is a monoclonal antibody.

The liposomes were prepared by making a liposome containing one or more lipids found in the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane of the host cell in the region of the lipid raft or one or more types of lipids normally found in HIV 1. Then the adjuvant lipid A and the protein from HIV 1 were inserted into the liposome. The liposomes contain lipid combinations comprising one or more of cholesterol sphingomyelin charged phospholipids phosphatidylethanolamine galactosyl ceramide or sulfogalactosyl ceramide to name a few of the lipids from the lipid raft region of the plasma membrane. The lipid A and the protein are either attached to the surface of the liposomes or intercalated into the liposomal membrane bilayer or encapsulated in the aqueous spaces inside the liposome

The liposomes are easily prepared using methods known in the art and as found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 888 519 6 093 406 incorporated herein in their entirety by reference. The following general methods for manufacturing liposomes have been published and are incorporated in their entirety by reference 

Swartz Jr. G. M. Gentry M. K. Amende L. M. Blanchette Mackie E. J. and Alving C. R. Antibodies to cholesterol. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences U.S.A. 85 1902 1906 1988 .

Alving C. R. Shichijo S. Mattsby Baltzer I. Richards R. L. and Wassef N. M. Preparation and use of liposomes in immunological studies. Liposome Technology vol. 3 Second Edition Gregoriadis G. ed. CRC Press Inc. Boca Raton Fla. pp. 317 343 1993 . Some specific details are given below. This describes the preferred liposome composition.

Lipids from Avanti dimyristol phosphatidylcholine DMPC dimyristol phosphatidylglycerol DMPG and cholesterol dissolved in distilled chloroform were added to 50 ml pear shaped flasks in 9 1 25 DMPC DMPG cholesterol molar ratio along with Lipid A Avanti in a final concentration of 200 g ml. Lipids were deposited as a thin film under 0.1 kPa vacuum at 40 C. on a rotaevaporator with 230 rpm. The lipids were then dried overnight in desiccator. The high cholesterol 71 liposomes were formed in distilled water then lyophilized for 24 hours. Gp140 protein oh HIVIIIB The Biotech Source in PBS was added to the lipids to yield 50 mM phospholipid suspensions forming multilamellar liposomes with 100 g ml incorporated HIV glycoprotein. All suspensions were stored at 40 C. until injection.

Liposomes within the present invention can be prepared in accordance with known laboratory techniques. In one preferred embodiment liposomes can be made by mixing together the lipids to be used including lipid A in a desired proportion in a container e.g a glass pear shaped flask having a volume ten times greater than the volume of the anticipated suspension of liposomes. Using a rotary evaporator the solvent is removed at approximately 40 C. under negative pressure. The vacuum obtained from a filter pump aspirator attached to a water faucet may be used. The solvent normally is removed within about 2 to 5 minutes. The composition can be dried further in a desiccator under vacuum. The dried lipids are generally discarded after about 1 week because of its tendency to deteriorate with time.

The dried lipids can be hydrated at approximately 30 mM phospholipid in sterile pyrogen free water by shaking until all the lipid film is off the glass. The aqueous liposomes can be then separated into aliquots each placed in a vaccine vial lyophilized and sealed under vacuum.

In the alternative liposomes can be prepared in accordance with other known laboratory procedures e.g. the method of Bangham et al. J. Mol. Biol. 13 238 52 1965 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference the method of Gregoriadis as described in Liposomes in DRUG CARRIERS IN BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE pp. 287 341 G. Gregoriadis ed. 1979 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference the method of Deamer and Uster as described in Liposome Preparation Methods and Mechanisms in LIPOSOMES M. Ostro ed. 1983 the contents of which are incorporated by reference and the reverse phase evaporation method as described by Szoka Jr. and Papahadjopoulos in Procedure for Preparation of Liposomes with Large Internal Aqueous space and High Capture by Reverse Phase Evaporation Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75 4194 98 1978 . The aforementioned methods differ in their respective abilities to entrap aqueous material and their respective aqueous space to lipid ratios.

Synthetic lipid A can be purchased from available commercial sources e.g. Calbiochem Behring La Jolla Calif. List Biological Laboratories Inc. Campbell Calif. and Corixa formerly Ribi Immunochem Research Inc. Hamilton Mont. . LPS is similarly available from commercial sources e.g. Difco Detroit Mich. List Biological Laboratories Inc. and Corixa. When the lipid A is inserted into the liposome the toxic portion of lipid A which usually causes fever is embedded in the liposome. Therefore lipid A does not cause a toxic response and has been found not to be dangerous. The inventor found that when lipid A is embedded in the liposome and injected in mice rabbits or humans it sends out a signal to the immune system. The immune system is then immobilized to send out an immune response to anything that is near the lipid A. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the immune system sends out a response that attacks HIV 1 by producing antibodies that simultaneously recognize lipid epitopes and HIV 1 protein or peptide epitopes. Lipid A is used as an adjuvant however other adjuvants that are known to induce an immune response may also be incorporated into the liposome.

The liposomes contain a variety of lipid compositions that mimic the known lipid composition of HIV 1 and that also include lipid A as a liposomal adjuvant. An example of such a liposome composition can contain one or more of phosphatidyl choline PC phosphatidylethanolamine PE sphingomyelin SM phosphatidylserine PS Phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate PIP and cholesterol in the approximate concentrations found in HIV 1 isolated as described in Aloia et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1993 90 5181 5185. Cholesterol can also be increased in the liposomes to optimize the induction of antibodies to cholesterol. The liposomes can also contain galactosyl ceramide GalCer sulfogalactosyl ceramide SGalCer ceramide trihexoside CTH ganglioside GM1 GM1 or ganglioside GM3 GM3 and phosphatidyl glycerol. These synthetic liposomes have lipids that mimic the lipid raft of the plasma membrane and which are also incorporated into the structure of HIV 1

Included within the scope of the present invention is changing or incorporating of one or more of the different lipids mentioned above in the liposome in order to achieve a desired result. Any of a combination of the lipids mentioned or similar types of lipids or synthetics are within the scope of the invention.

As indicated above in addition to the above lipids the liposomes also contain relevant HIV 1 protein or peptide epitopes that bind to or interact with lipids including gp160 gp140 or gp41 from HIV 1 envelope. The liposomes may also contain nef either alone or with env antigens because nef is known to react with the lipid bilayer particularly in association with cholesterol. It is generally found that the amino acid sequences that are present above the transmembrane sequences of gp41 are highly conserved and the lipids themselves are highly conserved.

HIV 1 is a spherical enveloped RNA retrovirus a lentivirus that fuses with the plasma membrane of a host cell to insert its genomic RNA. The envelope of HIV 1 contains a lipid bilayer that is associated with two loosely bound glycoproteins gp120 and gp41. These proteins are created during intracellular virus assembly when a precursor protein gp160 is cleaved to form gp120 and gp41 . The gp41 is a trimeric transmembrane protein that is anchored in the lipid bilayer and during viral maturation and budding the intraviral end of gp41 is bound to sites located on an N terminal myristoylated matrix protein p17 Yu et al. 1992 Freed Martin 1995 Hill et al. 1996 . As with other enveloped viruses the lipid composition of the virus is largely reflective of the composition of lipid rafts present in the plasma membrane of the host cell Aloia et al. 1988 and 1993 .

Cells that become infected with HIV 1 undergo cytopathological effects leading to apoptosis. This may initially occur because arginine residues on the C terminal end of gp41 fusion peptide electrostatically bind to phosphatidylserine PS or PG or other charged phospholipids on the inner lamella of the plasma membrane of the target cell. The interactions of the C terminus of gp41 with PS or PG results in the formation of a lipidic pore or causes other lipid membrane changes leading to cellular permeability cytopathology apopotosis with movement of PS from the inner lamella of the lipid bilayer to the outer lamella and death Chernomordik et al. 1994 Trommeshauser and Galla 1998 Trommeshauser et al. 2000 . After the subsequent acquisition of viral phospholipids from the host cell plasma membrane by the budding virus the resultant viral lipid bilayer resembles that of apoptotic cells in that PS is present on the outer lamella of the budded viral bilayer Callahan et al. 2003 .

Protein is incorporated into the liposomes when it is included in the aqueous solution that is used to disperse the dried lipids. The liposomes form automatically and automatically enclose a volume of the aqueous protein solution that was used to disperse the liposomes.

Monoclonal antibodies were made to the liposomes of the invention by using techniques well known in the art for making monoclonal antibodies and as found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 885 256 and 6 900 025 incorporated by reference. Monoclonal antibodies were produced that have subsite specificities both for lipid and amino acid epitopes and that will bind simultaneously to the lipids and the lipid associated protein.

Methods for producing and obtaining an antibody are well known by those skilled in the art. An exemplary method includes immunizing any animal capable of mounting a usable immune response to the antigen such as a mouse rat goat sheep rabbit or other suitable mammal. In the case of a monoclonal antibody antibody producing cells of the immunized animal may be fused with immortal or immortalized human or animal cells to obtain a hybridoma which produces the antibody. If desired the genes encoding one or more of the immunoglobulin chains may be cloned so that the antibody may be produced in different host cells and if desired the genes may be mutated so as to alter the sequence and hence the immunological characteristics of the antibody produced. Fragments of binding agents may be obtained by conventional techniques such as by proteolytic digestion of the binding agent using pepsin papain or the like or by recombinant DNA techniques in which DNA encoding the desired fragment is cloned and expressed in a variety of hosts. Irradiating any of the foregoing entities e.g. by ultraviolet light will enhance the immune response to a multi epitopic antigen under similar conditions. Various binding agents antibodies antigens and methods for preparing isolating and using the binding agents are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 471 057 Koprowski U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 218 Jette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 343 Fufe and U.S. Pat. No. 5 683 674 Taylor Papadimitriou et al all incorporated herein by reference. Furthermore many of these antibodies are commercially available from Centocor Abbott Laboratories Commissariat a L Energie Atomique Hoffman LaRoche Inc. Sorin Biomedica and FujiRebio.

The immunization procedure was performed by Biocon Inc. followed the company s approved protocol. The animal handling quarantine measures monitoring and vaccination of mice were used with maximal safety and minimal pain.

Liposomes were mixed with Freud s adjuvant for immunization. The group size was 5 animals per immunization. They were ear tagged and prebled after they were released from quarantine. The animals were immunized by intraperitoneal route IP . Two weeks after immunization one animal was selected on the basis of the ELISA data screening for the antibodies against to lipids and gp140 protein. The animal was anesthetized and terminally bled by cardiac puncture. The spleen was removed and processed for fusion with myeloma cells. The remaining 4 mice were boosted at week 3 by the IP with the same liposomal antigen formulation. They were bled at week 5 and the sera were assayed for antibodies to the antigens. The best responsive mouse was selected and immunized by the IV route. Four days later the animal was anesthetized and terminally bled by cardiac puncture. The spleen was removed and processed for making hybridomas. The remaining mice were held for 30 days in order to determine if the production of monoclonal antibodies was successful.

The protocol of Standard Operating Procedure Production of Monoclonal Antibodies Fusion of Spleen Cells was followed relevant portions as follows and is incorporated by reference in its entirety 

Procedure assumes that Balb c mice have been immunized and boosted with antigen. 3 4 days prior to fusion one mouse has been given an IV boost with antigen.

Pipets 1 5 10 25 and 50 ml 96 well flat bottom tissue culture plates Flasks 75 and 150 or 175 cm. Tubes 15 and 50 ml screw cap tubes Syringes 3 or 5 ml Petri dishes 6 cm diameter Transfer pipets Yellow pipet tips Basins Filters 1 L 500 and 100 ml bottle type with PES membrane

Waterbath set at 37 C Tabletop centrifuge set at room temperature 25 C Autoclave Hot plate Microscope bright field for counting cells Microscope inverter phase contrast for observing cultured cells Multi channel pipettor 12 place 50 250 or 300 l Pipet aid Biological safety cabinet

Hemocytometer 500 ml glass bottle to autoclave DI water Screen mesh for spleens sterile autoclaved Forceps small sterile autoclave Scissors small iris type Test tube rack 250 ml glass beaker Timer with seconds 70 Isopropanol in a spray bottle 

Media is prepares in a tissue culture filter apparatus. Some DMEM 70 of what is required is added to the filter. The additives are added using an appropriate pipet. DMEM is added to approximately the final volume. The vacuum is applied. After the media goes through the filter the filter is discarded and the lid is placed on the bottle. Media is good for approximately 1 month at 4 C.

DMEM 235 ml Glutamine 5 ml Sodium pyruvate 2.5 ml NEAA 2.5 ml Penicillin Streptomycin 2.5 ml HT 2.5 ml

DMEM 850 ml FBS 100 ml Glutamine 10 ml Sodium pyruvate 10 ml NEAA 10 ml Penicillin Streptomycin 10 ml HT 10 ml

DMEM 75 ml FBS 20 ml Glutamine 2 ml Sodium pyruvate 1 ml NEAA 1 ml Penicillin Streptomycin 1 ml HT 1 ml

DMEM 730 ml FBS 200 ml Glutamine 20 ml Sodium pyruvate 10 ml NEAA 10 ml Penicillin Streptomycin 10 ml HAT 20 ml

To prove the proper antibody production and select the wells for further growing and cloning lipid and protein ELISAs were done high cholesterol liposome w o lipid A cholesterol DMPC DMPG and gp140 .

Alving B. M. Banerji B. Fogler W. E. and Alving C. R. Lupus anticoagulant activities of murine monoclonal antibodies to liposomal phosphatidylinositol phosphate. Clinical and Experimental Immunology 69 403 408 1987 incorporated by reference 

or Swartz Jr. G. M. Gentry M. K. Amende L. M. Blanchette Mackie E. J. and Alving C. R. Antibodies to cholesterol. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences U.S.A. 85 1902 1906 1988 . Incorporated by reference with specific details given below.

100 l of cholesterol 5 nmol well DMPC 1 nmol well DMPG 10 nmol well diluted in ethanol and 100 l of high cholesterol DMPC DMPG liposome diluted in PBS were added into each well of Immulon 2HB U bottom ELISA plate Thermolab Systems and allowed to dry in a hood overnight. The cholesterol and liposome plates were blocked with 250 l of blocking buffer 0.3 gelatin in PBS and the DMPC DMPG plates were blocked with 250 l of 3 BSA for 2 hours. Culture supernatant 50 l of each of the hybridomas was added to the plate at room temperature for 2 hours. Plates were washed 5 times with washing buffer 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 154 mM NaCl using an automated plate washer Seltron MAPC and exposed to the secondary antibodies as goat anti mouse IgM antibody conjugated to HRP Zymed Labs and sheep affinity purified and HRP linked anti mouse IgG antibody Binding Site Inc. for 1 hour. Plates were washed exposed to ABTS peroxidase substrate system KPL at room temperature for 1 hour and then read at 405 nm with Spectra max 250 Molecular Devices .

0.1 ug of gp41 gp120 and gp140 diluted in 100 ul of PBS was added to each well of Immulon 4HBX plates Thermolab Systems and allowed to dry in a hood overnight. The plates were blocked with 250 l of blocking buffer 0.5 casein and 0.5 BSA for 2 hours. Culture supernatant of the given hybridomas was added to the plate at 4 C. for overnight incubation. Plates were washed 5 times with washing buffer 0.1 Tween PBS using an automated plate washer Seltron MAPC and exposed to the secondary antibodies for 1 hour. Plates were washed exposed to the substrate at room temperature for 1 hour and then read.

The MPR region of gp41 as shown in contains the binding epitopes for two human IgG monoclonal antibodies that are know to be broadly neutralizing antibodies. They are known as 2F5 and 4E10. 2F5 binds to ELDKWA SEQ ID NO 2 the MPR starts at D and 4E10 binds to NWFDIT SEQ ID NO 3 . The 2F5 epitope ELDKWA SEQ ID NO 2 is the same sequence identified as the binding site for GalCer. The cholesterol binding site LWYIK SEQ ID NO 4 is at the end of the MPR. The overall series of interactions of HIV 1 involving budding binding and fusion with host and target cells exposes lipid associated proteins and even lipids themselves as targets for virus neutralization.

The proposed interactions of HIV 1 for fusion with the plasma membrane lipid bilayer lipids are illustrated in . Plasma membrane glycosphingolipid microdomains as preferential sites of formation of the HIV 1 fusion complex. In the plasma membrane of CD4 cells CD4 is present in glycosphingolipid enriched microdomains but is not associated with HIV 1 corereceptors. Once bound to CD4 the viral particle is conveyed to an appropriate coreceptor by the glycosphingolipid raft which moves freely in the external leaflet of the plasma membrane cholesterol glycosphingolipid phosphatidylcholine .

As shown in after budding from host cells the HIV 1 virus exhibits a strong tendency to infect T lymphocytes as target cells using CD4 as a receptor Piguet Sattentau 2004 . A is a cross section of HIV 1 envelop protein. The binding and fusion of HIV with the target cell involves a choreographed ballet between the proteins of the free virus and the entry site of the target cell B and C . HIV entry into a cell is a multistep process initially involving the interactions of viral envelope protein gp120 and gp41 with several binding sites on the cell surface. The envelope proteins exist as a trimer consisting of 3 gp120 molecules and 3 gp41 molecules. The binding of gp120 to CD4 is followed by conformational changes in the gp120 protein that expose binding sites to chemokine receptors CXCR4 or CCR5 that serve as co receptor binding sites for interactions of the virus with the target cell Berger et al. 1999 Doms 2000 Huang et al 2005 . The binding of gp120 to the chemokine co receptor in turn induces conformational changes that allow the binding of the gp41 anchor protein to the cell and this is followed by fusion of the viral lipid bilayer with the plasma membrane bilayer and entry of the virion RNA into the target cell Colman Lawrence 2003 C . The binding and entry processes entail numerous types of interactions between proteins and lipids of the virus and specific lipids of the target cell Fantini et al. 2002 .

In the reference numbers represent as follows CD4 viral particle co receptor raft plasma membrane p17 matrix lipid bilayer membrane proximal region fusion peptide . Also step 3 is fusion and entry.

Humans may be immunized with the appropriate liposomes to produce monoclonal antibodies that have broadly neutralizing activities and a vaccine preparation can be made that would be composed of the above liposomal lipid and protein or peptide combination for testing for protective efficacy against multiple types of HIV clades.

Preclinical studies demonstrated that life long injection of liposomes containing lipid A in mice induced antibodies against numerous lipids but did not adversely affect the life span of the mice Richardson et al. 1988 89 . Moreover life long injection of saline alone into the mice was also associated with age related appearance of antibodies to lipids but the antibodies did not appear to have caused any substantive deleterious effects. Liposomes containing lipid A have proven to be extremely safe in numerous phase I and phase II experimental human vaccine trials involving more than 200 volunteers. A high level of safety was observed even with very high concentrations of lipid A Fries et al. 1992 Heppner et al. 1996 McElrath 1995 Harris et al. 1999 . In the 15 years that such clinical trials have been conducted there have been no reported instances of association of the antibodies with APS or any other autoimmune disease.

Under normal circumstances liposomes themselves are generally not considered immunogenic in experimental animals. However by utilizing lipid A as an adjuvant in the lipid bilayer liposomes can be rendered immunogenic and antibodies to liposomal phospholipids have been experimentally induced in animals rabbits and mice Schuster et al. 1978 reviewed by Alving 1986 . By using lipid A which is the lipid moiety of Gram negative lipopolysaccharide endotoxin as an adjuvant polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to liposomal phospholipids also referred to as anti phospholipid antibodies or aPLs Banerji et al. 1982 Wassef et al. 1984 liposomal cholesterol Swartz et al. 1988 and even liposomal squalene an alkene precursor of cholesterol Matyas et al. 2000 have been developed.

Liposomes containing lipid A form the basis of the numerous proposed experimental liposomal vaccines against diseases as diverse as malaria Fries et al. 1992 HIV McElrath 1995 Rao et al. 2004 Richards et al. 2004 Ebola hemorrhagic fever Rao et al. 2002 ricin intoxication Matyas and Alving 1996 prostate cancer Harris et al. 1999 Alving 2002 and breast cancer Samuel et al. 1998 Batenjany et al. 2001 . In addition to production of antibodies to liposome encapsulated protein antigen that is present in the vaccine formulation it is possible that antibodies to the liposomal lipids could also be induced by such vaccines. Considerable evidence indicates that numerous types of circulating antibodies to lipids occur naturally in virtually all normal humans and these antibodies generally do not pose any recognized clinical risk.

Further humans produce circulating antibodies against such fundamental elements as lipids in the lipid bilayers or tissues of all mammalian cells but do not attack and damage those cells. This is because normal cells are protected from the binding of antibodies to lipids by steric hindrance from adjacent larger molecules.

The inventor has shown that certain types of liposomes have been shown to be synthetic models of stabilized lipid raft like structures and immunological studies with liposomes provide insights about interactions of HIV 1 with lipid bilayers. The inventor found that HIV 1 lipid structures or liposomes are useful either as antigens or as auxiliary lipids in combination with proteins and peptides and have exploited them for immunological approaches to HIV 1 and produced the following results as described in Examples 1 and 2. The following examples are presented to illustrate the invention but it is not to be considered as limited thereto.

Antibodies have been produced that have subsite specificities both for lipid and amino acid epitopes and that will bind simultaneously to the lipids and the lipid associated protein. Mice were immunized with liposomes containing lipid A and containing encapsulated protein from the envelope of HIV 1. A unique murine monoclonal antibody has now been generated that simultaneously recognizes both the envelope protein by itself and also recognizes the protein free liposomes by themselves. In addition each of the antibodies reacts with at least one individual constituent cholesterol or high cholesterol liposomes respectively that was present in the immunizing liposomes. This demonstrates that the production of unique antibodies having such dual specificities can indeed be produced. Studies to determine whether this antibody has neutralization activity against clinical isolates of HIV 1 are currently being undertaken.

This work has resulted in immunization with synthetic liposomal lipid rafts containing gp140 and the identification and creation of three clones that recognize both gp160 and either dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol or cholesterol or both as shown in and

The immunization consisted of the high cholesterol liposomes that contained encapsulated gp140. The gp140 protein consists of a protein that contains both gp120 and part of gp41 thus the dual specific antibodies were specifically directed only to the gp41 portion of the gp140 and not to the gp120 portion.

These clones have therefore tentatively been found to bind to the mpr region of the gp 140 i.e. gp 41 they therefore might have properties that are similar to 2F5 or 4E10. Numerous other clones have also been identified which have the dual or multi specific binding specificities defined above. These further clones were obtained after immunizing with synthetic lipid rafts containing phosphatidylinositol phosphate and mpr24 or V3 loop P18 peptide together with galactosylceramide. The results from these tests are positive.

HIV 1 neutralizing capabilities of mabs to PIP have been tested. Antibodies to PIP have the ability to cross react with cardiolipin which is useful for testing the concept that antibodies to cardiolipin can have broad neutralizing properties for HIV. Extensive experiments have now demonstrated that monoclonal antibodies to PIP do exhibit neutralizing activities against two clinical field isolate strains of HIV 1.

The murine monoclonal antibody to phosphatidylinositol phosphate PIP has been shown by the inventor to bind to PIP as determined by ELISA. This anti PIP antibody has been shown to have similar binding properties to human monoclonal antibody 4E10 . Each of the antibodies had antigen subsite binding specificities in aqueous medium for small phosphate containing molecules and for inositol. The anti PIP monoclonal antibody inhibited infection by two HIV 1 clinical isolates in neutralization assays employing primary human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The data suggest that PIP or related lipids having free phosphates could serve as targets for neutralization of HIV 1.

Recently an important observation was made that two broadly neutralizing human MAbs known as 4E10 and 2F5 which are known to react with gp41 of HIV 1 envelope protein cross reacted with cardiolipin CL and are in the category of antibodies that have lupus anticoagulant type anti CL specificities. This observation is also consistent with a previous finding that HIV 1 could bind to and fuse with CL liposomes and that such binding inhibited infection of A3.01 cells by HIV 1. The latter result suggested that HIV 1 has a binding site for CL. The results from the two laboratories could be interpreted as indicating that CL might serve as a binding site for HIV 1 and that interference with the binding to CL could be exploited for vaccine development. However balanced against this it is known that CL is not present as a lipid constituent of either HIV 1 or of the plasma membrane of any mammalian cell and this therefore raises the question whether an alternative lipid antigen might actually be the real neutralizing and perhaps more important target of 4E10 and 2F5.

The inventor found that specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate PIP can be readily induced in mice by injection of liposomes containing PIP as an antigen and lipid A as an adjuvant Alving 1986 . Four complement fixing murine monoclonal antibodies to PIP selected for their ability to react with liposomes containing PIP but not with liposomes lacking PIP have been extensively studied Alving 1987 Alving 1980 Alving 1986 Folger 1987 Friedman 1982 Stollar 1989 Wasseff 1993 . The anti PIP antibodies are characterized by the ability to react with varied types of phosphorylated molecules including certain closely related anionic phospholipids that have charged non zwitterionic phosphate groups such as CL Alving 1987 and also with denatured DNA Stollar 1989 . Presumably because of cross reactivity with CL anti PIP antibodies gave positive results in clinical assays for lupus anticoagulant activity Alving 1987 . Anti PIP antibodies can be inhibited by small soluble phosphorylated molecules such as inositol hexaphosphate but not inositol phosphocholine but not choline and nucleotides but not nucleosides Alving 1987 Wassef 1993 Stollar 1989 . Because of the phosphate binding subsite that allows such haptenic inhibition to occur the antibodies can actually serve as high affinity carriers and donors for biologically important molecules as shown by ability of ATP bound to anti PIP antibodies to serve as a high energy phosphate donor for an enzymatic hexokinase reaction.

In addition to providing information about the molecular architecture of antigen binding subsites Mabs to PIP are useful probes for exploring potentially important biological binding and receptor activities. Anti PIP antibodies bind directly to membrane phospholipid on adherent but not on nonadherent macrophages. There is also evidence that PIP can be expressed on the cell surface and act as a receptor for diphtheria toxin. Antibodies to PIP inhibited diphtheria toxin induced CHO cell cytotoxicity. In view of this the inventor investigated the potential role that antibodies to PIP might play in the identification of target phospholipid antigens for induction of effective neutralizing antibodies to HIV. It was demonstrated that not only does the 4E10 antibody resemble anti PIP antibodies in that it binds to PIP and can be inhibited by small phosphorylated molecules but specific monoclonal anti PIP antibodies also resemble 4E10 in that they neutralize strains of HIV 1 including two field isolates of HIV 1.

Murine monoclonal IgM antibodies to PIP were obtained after immunizing mice with liposomes containing PIP as an antigen and lipid A as an adjuvant as previously described. IgM antibody was purified from ascites fluid containing anti PIP antibody no. 4 by using the protocol supplied with the ImmunoPure IgM Purification kit and Slide A Lyser dialysis cassettes Pierce Chemical Co. Rockville Ill. . Activities of the anti PIP and 4E10 antibodies were assayed by ELISA with slight modification. Monoclonal antibody 4E10 was obtained through the NIH AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program. The methods for isolation propagation and titration of HIV 1 isolates and the neutralization assay were used as previously described.

The binding of the anti PIP and 4E10 antibodies to PIP was not inhibited by soluble haptenic inositol and inositol actually enhanced the binding of the antibodies to the antigen . No enhancement was observed in the binding of the antibodies to CL in the presence of inositol . Separate experiments suggested that the enhancement of binding of the antibodies to PIP but not to CL probably reflects a low affinity hydroxyl hydroxyl association of inositol with the polyhydroxyl headgroups on PIP combined with low affinity inositol subsites in the anti PIP and 4E10 antibodies.

The murine anti PIP monoclonal antibody was examined for possible HIV 1 neutralizing activity in a model utilizing inhibition of infection of primary cultures of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. As shown in A and B the anti PIP antibody exhibited neutralizing activity that blocked infection of PBMCs by both HIV strain 91US1 A and 00KE KER2018 B both of which are primary clinical isolate strains of HIV 1. Interestingly when the antibodies were tested against pseudoviruses from multiple clades in the TZM b1 cell line model system the 4E10 antibody exhibited neutralization but the anti PIP antibody did not neutralize data not shown . Blinded independent confirmation of the neutralizing activity of the anti PIP antibody for blocking 91US1 infection of primary PBMCs both with PBMCs from the donor shown in A and with PBMCs independently obtained from a separate donor was kindly provided by Dr. John Mascola at the Vaccine Research Center NIH data not shown .

Our data with murine Mab anti PIP and human Mab 4E10 each of which bind to PIP and CL and neutralize HIV 1 suggest that cell surface or viral PIP or related inositol phosphatides could play a role in the interaction of HIV 1 with target cells. The inositol phosphatides which comprise a family of eight chemical species with different combinations of phosphate groups arranged around the polyhydroxyl inositol ring are highly versatile signaling molecules with key roles in receptor mediated signal transduction signal induced actin assembly and remodeling and membrane trafficking PIP an intermediate in the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bis phosphate PIP2 from phosphatidylinositol is synthesized by a PI 4 kinase that is located in the lipid rafts and caveolae like vesicles of the plasma membrane of eukaryotic cells. A huge and sometimes confusing array of proteins bind to inositol phosphatides perhaps the most well known of which are glycosylphosphatidylinositol GPI anchored proteins. Certain GPI anchored proteins such as Thy 1 and CD59 are incorporated into the HIV 1 virion during budding of the virus from lipid rafts. GPI anchored proteins were originally discovered on the surface of and antibodies to PI and PIP were induced in rabbits infected with . Thus PIP in an infectious organism can be immunogenic and it appears possible that PIP in the lipid bilayer of the HIV 1 virion or in the host cell or other membrane lipids with free phosphate could represent a target for neutralizing antibodies to HIV 1. Regardless of the exact mechanism of neutralization by anti PIP and 4E10 antibodies it does appear evident that the phosphate binding subsite and possibly the inositol binding subsite of each antibody might play a role. The data suggest that the neutralizing effects of anti PIP and perhaps 4E10 may be more strongly associated with the headgroups of the phospholipids than with hydrophobic interactions with the hydrophobic regions of either HIV 1 or plasma membrane lipid bilayers.

The ELISA procedure was developed by modification of previous techniques for analysis of antibody binding to lipid antigens Smolarsky 1980 Loizou et al. 1985 . PI PS or CL was coated onto the surface of wells in polystyrene microtitre plates Immunolon I U bottom Dynatech Labs Inc. Alexandria Va. by addition of an ethonolic solution and evaporation of the solvent by air under a fume hood. Plates were further dried under high vacuum and stored at 20 C. when not used the same day. Plates were blocked by addition of phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.2 containing 0.3 gelatin Difco Laboratories Detroit Mich. . This was accomplished by washing the wells three times for 5 min each with PBS containing 0.3 gelatin. Fifty microliters of goat anti mouse IgM chain specific alkaline phosphatase conjugate Kirkegaard and Perry Laboratories Inc. Gaithersburg Md. at g ml in PBS containing 1 BSA were added to the wells and incubated for 30 min. at 22 C. Plates were agains washed three times for 5 min each with PBS containing 0.3 geletan. Fifty microliters of the substrate p nitrophenylphosphate at an initial concentration of 2 mg ml in diethanolamine buffer 9Kirkegaard and Perry Laboratories Inc. were added to the wells and incubated for 30 Min at 22 C. Plates were scanned for optical activity at 405 nm with Titertek Multiscan Flow Laboratories McLean Va. . Values reported were adjusted by substracting values in wells that lacked monoclonal antibody. Alving 1987 

The inventor s further goal was to achieve a vaccine that would cover numerous clades so they considered sequences that are highly conserved. Two such conserved antigenic regions are portions of the mpr region of gp41 and the lipid bilayer itself including lipids such as phosphatidylinositol phosphate phosphatidylserine phosphatidylglycerol and cholesterol. Additionally certain conserved regions in gp120 particularly conserved elements of the V3 loop are known to bind to glycolipids including galactosyl ceramide and ganglioside GM3.

The inventor has shown that a monoclonal antibody may be produced that has successfully neutralized two field isolates of HIV 1 and a further monoclonal antibody that has been generated that simultaneously recognizes both a protein gp160 from HIV and one or more protein free liposomal lipids. It would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that this method of producing a dual specific monoclonal antibody that recognizes both an amino acid sequence and a lipid epitope can be applied to other substances other than HIV 1. Other substances or entities to be neutralized are other viruses bacteria hormones fungi cancer cells protozoa or any other entity that triggers an antibody immune response.

4E10 2F5 and Z13 These are designations of monoclonal antibodies derived from individual humans infected with HIV 1 or that have been identified from phage display libraries that have the ability to broadly neutralize clinical isolates of HIV 1. The antibodies are further taught and described by Buchacher et al. Buchacher A Predi R Strutzenberger K Steinfellner W Trkola A Purtscher M Gruber G Tauer C Steindl F Jungbauer A Katinger H. Generation of human monoclonal antibodies against HIV 1 proteins electrofusion and Epstein Barr virus transformation for peripheral blood lymphocyte immortalization. AIDS Research and Human Retroviruses. April 1994 10 4 359 369 and by Zwick et al. Zwick M B Labrijn A F Wang M Spenlehauer C Saphire E O Binley J M Moore J P Stiegler G Katinger H Burton D R Parren P W Broadly neutralizing antibodies targeted to the membrane proximal external region of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 glycoprotein gp41. Journal of Virology November 2001 75 22 10892 10905 .

Adjuvant An adjuvant is defined as anything that will amplify the immune response or improve the immune response over what the immune response would be without the adjuvant.

Antigenic epitope or more simply an epitope Molecular recognition site for binding of antibodies. Commonly this is determined or produced by injecting an antigenic material into a mammal or by introduction of the antigenic material to lymphocytes in vitro for presentation of the antigenic material to lymphocytes to induce antibodies that are secreted by lymphocytes and said antibodies then have the capacity to bind to sites on the material that had been presented to the lymphocytes.

Broadly neutralizing A commonly encountered problem in HIV 1 immunology and vaccinology is the inability of antibodies induced against HIV 1 organisms produced in the laboratory to prevent i.e. neutralize primary isolates of HIV 1 viruses from infecting target cells. Broadly neutralizing antibodies are defined as antibodies that have the ability to partially or completely overcome this problem by neutralizing more than one type of primary isolate of HIV 1 virus.

Enveloped virus A virus that has an envelope i.e. an outer lipid bilayer structure together with associated proteins on the outer surface is an enveloped virus. Examples of such viruses include HIV 1 influenza virus dengue virus Sindbis virus and Ebola virus among many others.

Dual specific or multi specific This is defined as the ability of the antigen binding site of an antibody to bind simultaneously or independently to epitopes on two or more types of antigenic chemical species for example to an amino acid sequence and to a lipid or to a sugar and a lipid or to an amino acid sequence and a sugar. The term dual refers only to binding to more than one type of chemical epitope but such antibody binding specificities may actually contain as many molecular binding sub sites for different types of chemical epitopes including three or more epitopes as there is available space on the antigen binding site of the antibody for such simultaneous binding of more than one type of epitope.

Lipid Lipids are defined as taught by Small D. M. The Physical Chemistry of Lipids From Alkanes to Phospholipids Handbook of Lipid Research Vol 4 Plenum N.Y. 1986 p. 1 as given below 

Lipid structure this includes all organized lipid structures or domains and all solid phase mesomorphic crystalline liquid crystalline and liquid lipid structures This is defined as all of the multiple organized physical states of lipids as taught by Small D. M. in The physical states of lipids solids mesomorphic states and liquids in The Physical Chemistry of Lipids From Alkanes to Phospholipids Handbook of Lipid Research Vol 4 Plenum N.Y. 1986 Chapter 3 pp. 43 87. All of the above terms are interchangeable as defined in the context of this invention. Thus the term solid phase lipid structure is interchangeable with mesomorphic states liquid lipids organized lipid structures domains crystalline lipid structures liquid crystal lipid structures and liquid lipid structures .

Lipid bilayer membrane This is a type of double layer membrane in which the polar groups of the parallel array of lipids of each monolayer of lipids are oriented toward the aqueous phase and the nonpolar groups such as fatty acyl groups of each monolayer are oriented toward each other in the center of the bilayer. Liposomes often contain lipid bilayers as do plasma membranes of cells.

Liposomes Liposomes as they are ordinarily used consist of smectic mesophases and may consist or either phospholipid or nonphospholipid smectic mesophases.

Definition of Smectic Mesophase as taught by Small D. M. in The Physical Chemistry of Lipids From Alkanes to Phospholipids Handbook of Lipid Research Vol 4 Plenum N.Y. 1986 pp. 49 50 is given below 

Primary isolates of HIV 1 These are isolates of HIV 1 that are found spontaneously in human populations. Commonly such isolates are obtained from clinical specimens taken from individuals naturally infected with HIV 1. Primary isolates differ from laboratory isolates in that the latter are strains of HIV 1 that are adapted to growth in transformed T cell lines.

Other bonding specificities of the antibodies of the invention are also contemplated. In addition to making dual specific antibodies multi specific antibodies for binding two or more antigenic epitopes are within the scope of the invention. These other antigenic epitopes include combinations of two or more amino acid sequences lipids sugars and carbohydrates.

The invention has been described herein with reference to certain preferred embodiments. However as obvious variations thereon will become apparent to those skilled in the art the invention is not to be considered as limited thereto.

