---

title: Optimistic access procedure at dormant target handset in a CDMA2000 1X network with F-QPCH enabled
abstract: A system and method for reducing communication latency including monitoring a communication channel for a plurality of indicators wherein a first indicator represents a desired communication operation; basing a communication operation upon a second indicator that indicates that the communication operation has an optimistic probability of success; and initiating an operation optimistically when at least the second indicator confirms that the operation optimistically initiated was a correct operation based upon the second indicator confirming the desired communication operation represented by the first indicator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103295&OS=08103295&RS=08103295
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08103295
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
The present invention generally relates towards reducing communication latency in communication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to an optimistic access procedure for communication with a dormant target handset.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xRTT 1x and 1xEV DO standards 1XEV for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station.

For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like and is known in the art. Generally there are two types of power control for the reverse link open loop and closed loop power control. The open loop power control typically occurs prior to the mobile terminal establishing contact with a base station. The closed loop control occurs after the mobile and the base station are in communication and the base station can measure the received power levels and feedback power level adjustments to the mobile terminal.

In the open loop condition the reverse link power for an initial communication signal e.g. access probe from the mobile terminal to the base station can be determined by monitoring specialized signals from a base station or access point. For example in CDMA systems a pilot signal can be used to estimate the channel condition and then determine a power estimate for transmitting back to the base station. The accuracy of the channel conditions and power estimation can greatly impact performance of the system particularly in terms of latency of the system. For example 1x and 1xEV systems will transmit an access probe at a first power level based on a power control algorithm. If the first access attempt does not succeed then the probe is resent at increasingly higher power levels until it is successful or the power level maximum is reached.

In addition to the message loss due to power related issues e.g. channel fading time varying RoT etc. Access Channel losses can also occur because of access probe collisions may be the case in geographically dense group calls. Losses that are caused due to the fading of the wireless channel can be minimized by increasing the transmit power of access probes. Losses due to probe collisions over the Access channel can be mitigated by ensuring that probe transmissions that are synchronized with respect to each other do not transmit their probes at the same time.

Additionally advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones laptops personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. A wireless device is any device that can communicate with other devices without being physically attached to them. Most wireless devices communicate with each other through radio frequencies.

More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

However these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device. Due to severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such remote personal computing devices client devices .

Some of the personal computing devices utilize an application programming interface API or application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. An API is a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures used by the computer s operating system.

Further some APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some of such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software application without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW can operate with a computing device s e.g. a wireless cellular phone operating system and can among other features provide interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW can also provide these interfaces on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Additional features of BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

The foregoing description of the related art is merely intended to provide an overview of wireless devices and some of the known uses of APIs and as an introduction to the BREW platform which can be used in various embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a specific physical configuration implementation operating platform or environment.

By initiating a communication operation at the target handset optimistically there is a reduction in delay without any major increase in power consumption. Optimistically refers to carrying out an operation based on a belief or understanding based on data past observations empirical evidence etc. that there is a good chance or expectation outcome that the operation will be carried out successfully.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed towards a system and method for using a mobile device earphone or microphone connector as an input device interface.

Accordingly one embodiment of the invention can be a method for reducing communication latency including monitoring a communication channel for a plurality of indicators wherein a first indicator represents a desired communication operation basing a communication operation upon a second indicator that indicates that the communication operation has an optimistic probability of success and initiating an operation optimistically when at least the second indicator confirms that the operation optimistically initiated was a correct operation based upon the second indicator confirming the desired communication operation represented by the first indicator.

An apparatus for reducing communication latency including logic configured to monitor a communication channel for a plurality of indicators wherein a first indicator represents a desired communication operation logic configured to base a communication operation upon a second indicator that indicates that the communication operation has an optimistic probability of success and logic configured to initiate an operation optimistically when at least the second indicator confirms that the operation optimistically initiated was a correct operation based upon the second indicator confirming the desired communication operation represented by the first indicator.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a system for reducing communication latency including means for monitoring a communication channel for a plurality of indicators wherein a first indicator represents a desired communication operation means for basing a communication operation upon a second indicator that indicates that the communication operation has an optimistic probability of success and means for initiating an operation optimistically when at least the second indicator confirms that the operation optimistically initiated was a correct operation based upon the second indicator confirming the desired communication operation represented by the first indicator.

A computer readable medium on which is stored a computer program comprising instructions which upon being executed causes the computing device to perform a process of monitoring a communication channel for a plurality of indicators wherein a first indicator represents a desired communication operation basing a communication operation upon a second indicator that indicates that the communication operation has an optimistic probability of success and initiating an operation optimistically when at least the second indicator confirms that the operation optimistically initiated was a correct operation based upon the second indicator confirming the desired communication operation represented by the first indicator.

Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

One or more embodiments of the invention can be used in conjunction with a runtime environment e.g. API executing on a computing device. One such runtime environment API is the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software previously discussed. However one or more embodiments of the invention can be used with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

The various embodiments of the invention can thus be realized on any form of client device or wireless devices including a wireless communication portal of having wireless communication capabilities including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server ADS is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices and across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices and . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can include one or more servers that can each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality. Further not all elements e.g. pager ADS database etc. illustrated are necessarily used in all of the different embodiments of the invention that may be implemented.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote client devices such as wireless client computing devices and to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as ad display server which are used to provide cellular telecommunications services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In the embodiment shown a server can include the application download server ad dispatch server and the stored application database . The application download server server and the stored application database are illustrated as independent devices in this embodiment. However these devices can also be integrated into one common server or the functionality of one or more may be distributed over multiple devices as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The carrier network controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The BTS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the client devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS UDP datagrams data over signaling DOS or other over the air OTA methods known in the art.

The client device here a wireless client computing device such as a cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and or commands transmitted form the application download server ad dispatch server and or server . The computer platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as know to those skilled in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone has installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from the application download server . The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user or invoked by another API.

As used herein client device wireless device or client computing device includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein directed to ads communicated between a client device and a server. The client computing device can be serviced by at least one remote server with respect to at least such ads. Some examples of wireless computing devices which may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention includes cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs laptops paging devices navigation devices e.g. GPS based systems handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS short messaging service or other OTA over the air methods known in the art.

In one scenario a CDMA2000 1X system with F QPCH Forward Link Quick Paging Channel support is enabled. The target handset is in a dormant state and has just been notified via the F QPCH Forward Link Quick Paging Channel paging indicator bit that it has a page queued at the BTS. The target handset upon decoding both its paging indicator bits as 1 will wait until the F CCCH Forward Communication Control Channel slot boundary that starts 20 msec following the end of the F QPCH slot for a General Page Message GPM from the BTS.

After reception of the page message the target handset will process the GPM in the update overhead sub state. The target handset is required to respond to this page message but must perform a jump to hyperspace operation. In one example this procedure can take anywhere from 106.67 186.67 milliseconds to complete.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the completion time will vary depending upon the specific communication system implementation and its associated operational and performance characteristics.

The term jump to hyperspace refers to an access probe pre transmit delay. This delay is implementation specific i.e. not required by the CDMA2000 standard .

As an example a Reverse Link Jump to Hyperspace is the process of synchronizing a mobile s Reverse Link Tx timing to the Forward Link Rx CDMA system timing and performing acquisition procedures in a CDMA system. The delay due to the RL Jump to Hyperspace is incurred during every access attempt and ranges from 106.7 ms 186.7ms. The delay is broken into three wait states 

PHASE2 WAIT1 Wait for the beginning of the third PN roll of a superframe to turn on the Tx clock. This state is executed based on Forward Link timing. This step is necessary to ensure that the clock is on when the demodulator reaches the 80 ms sync point. At that time the modulator clock is synchronized with the demodulator clock. This state requires 0 ms 80 ms.

PHASE2 WAIT2 Wait for the beginning of the third PN roll of the Rx superframe to load the long and short codes. These take effect on the next 80 ms modulator frame boundary. Notice that this boundary is only valid because of the PHASE2 WAIT1 state. If we had skipped the first state then the long code would be loaded at a wrong time. This state requires exactly 80 ms.

PHASE0 WAIT Wait for the beginning of the first PN roll of the Rx superframe to ensure that the long short codes are in effect. Install the REACH ISR to begin transmitting a thenext slot boundary. This state requires exactly 26.66 ms.

Upon completion of the jump to hyperspace operation the target handset transmits its Page Response or an ACK order message over the Access channel. The above sequence of operations are fundamental to the operation of CDMA2000 1x A and may apply uniformly to all applications including both push to talk PTT and non push to talk applications. As a result of this serial approach in performing the operations described above in CDMA2000 1x using F QPCH a significant amount of additional latency e.g. between 80 160 milliseconds is experienced by all applications.

Latency is improved by initiating the jump to hyperspace operation at the target handset optimistically as soon as the 1paging indicator bit is decoded as a 1 over the F QPCH channel. Assuming transmissions over the F QPCH channel have a low probability of decoding error there is a high likelihood of decoding a 1 correctly in the first half of the F QPCH slot. It may not be necessary to wait and decode the 2F QPCH paging indicator if the first bit is decoded as a 1 . The process of listening to or searching for both bits as opposed to just one bit lowers the probability of decoding error significantly. However this may not be necessary if the reliability of the F QPCH is adequately high e.g. BER 1 .

During operation it is possible that an optimistic jump to hyperspace operation that is triggered upon decoding only the 1paging bit can result in this operation being invoked more often than necessary. This will happen whenever the 2paging bit is decoded as a 0 while the 1paging bit was decoded as a 1 . Assuming that the BER on the F QPCH is 1 unnecessary jump to hyperspaces will be invoked at a rate of 1 a sufficiently small value. It may even be possible to abort a jump to hyperspace operation in progress after decoding the 2paging indicator bit as 0 so that the mobile can conserve energy by going into a sleep or dormant mode.

In the exemplary situation where it is only possible to initiate the jump to hyperspace operation upon decoding the 2paging bit performance is enhanced if the two paging indicator bits for communication devices were hashed into other frames e.g. the 1and the 3frames of the F QPCH slot so that communication devices can listen to both paging indicator bits early on and still have enough time to get ready for an early initiation of the jump to hyperspace procedure.

An exemplary optimistic jump to hyperspace initiation scenario is shown in . The jump to hyperspace operation begins 26.67 milliseconds prior to the start of the 80 millisecond F CCCH slot . Since the start of the F QPCH slot precedes an overlapping F CCCH slot by 20 milliseconds there is at least a time interval of 40 20 26.67 33.33 milliseconds between decoding the 1paging indicator bit as a 1 on the F QPCH channel and before beginning the jump to hyperspace operation. It is expected that this interval would be sufficient for any processing delays e.g. processing delays attributed to software and hardware that are needed before the initiation of the jump to hyperspace operation.

In case both paging bits on the F QPCH are decoded and assuming that the 2paging indicator bit lies in the 3frame of the F QPCH slot the minimum amount of time from the end of the 3F QPCH frame to the start of the jump to hyperspace procedure is about 13.33 msec. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other bits data frames delay times etc. may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

An early initiation of jump to hyperspace requires certain types of functionality and capability at the handset. For example the handset should be capable of decoding the paging indicator bits transmitted over the F QPCH decoding pages transmitted over the F CCCH performing update overhead processing upon receiving a page and possibly readying a Page Response message in parallel to be transmitted over the R EACH while the jump to hyperspace procedure is ongoing. Typically the update overhead processing is a software operation. It is therefore expected that this procedure can also be performed in tandem or in parallel with an on going jump to hyperspace operation.

The aforementioned approach described in the specification reduces delay. For example in one embodiment parallelizing the jump to hyperspace operation with reception of pages on F CCCH update overhead operation readying the access probe for transmission over R EACH can lead to savings in delay between 80 160 milliseconds. This delay saving applies uniformly to all applications that use the Access channel.

Further the arrangement of the logic elements is merely for the convenience of illustration and should not be construed as limiting embodiments of the invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the functionality of the logic elements described herein may be integrated into one element or distributed as desired among various hardware and software elements.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there is no particular order of performing and executing the method functional blocks intended or implied in the preceding description. The foregoing methods discussed above can be used by themselves or in any combination thereof to achieve the same objective.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as direct access storage device DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only media e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to those embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The activities or steps of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described in the singular the plural is contemplated unless the limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

