---

title: Systems and methods of laser texturing and crystallization of material surfaces
abstract: The surface of a material is textured and crystallized in a single step by exposing the surface to pulses from an ultrafast laser. The laser treatment causes pillars to form on the treated surface. These pillars provide for greater light absorption. The crystallization of the material provides for higher electric conductivity and changes in optical properties of the material. The method may be performed in a gaseous environment, so that laser assisted chemical etching will aid in the texturing of the surface. This method may be used on various material surfaces, such as semiconductors, metals, ceramics, polymers, and glasses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08753990&OS=08753990&RS=08753990
owner: University of Virginia Patent Foundation
number: 08753990
owner_city: Charlottesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
The present invention was developed with United States Government support under National Science Foundation Grant Nos. EEC 0537883 and GA10507 31335 427250. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is a national stage filing of International Applications No. PCT US2006 049065 filed on Dec. 21 2006 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 752 545 filed on Dec. 21 2005 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 843 874 filed on Sep. 12 2006 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 860 735 filed on Nov. 22 2006. The full disclosures of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Apparatuses and methods consistent with the present invention relate to modifying surfaces and more particularly to modifying surfaces of thin films in order to alter their thermal structural optical and electrical properties.

Laser processing provides a unique method of modifying materials by depositing large amounts of energy onto the surface of a material in an extremely controlled manner. Laser processing enables the precisely localized treatment of a material. Laser processing is particularly useful after thin film deposition of amorphous materials which usually involves low temperature processing and allows for the use of flexible and low melting temperature substrates for large area device fabrication. However these devices lack better performance usually due to poor electrical optical and or structural properties. Laser processing of these devices with ultra short laser pulses has been found to improve the properties of the devices because the high peak intensities of the laser pulses rapidly texture the surface and a subsequent quenching process induces crystallization in the material. The texturing of the surface leads to more light absorption in the material and the subsequent crystallization improves the electronic properties of the material.

For example thin film amorphous silicon a Si based devices are inexpensive compared to their crystalline counterparts because of low temperature processing which is suitable for deposition on large substrates such as glass plastic and steel foils. However solar cell devices fabricated using a Si thin films lack efficiency have a high reflectivity across the electromagnetic spectrum possess a larger band gap 1.7 eV and have limited carrier mobility. In order to improve the efficiency and sensitivity of a Si based devices post deposition laser processing is usually recommended. This includes texturing and subsequent crystallization of the surface. Pulsed laser crystallization of thin a Si films on various substrates has potential applications in the fabrication of thin film transistors for active matrix liquid crystal displays and efficient solar cells. Typically nanosecond or microsecond lasers are utilized to crystallize such films through a rapid melting and solidification process. Methods of using a laser to crystallize a material surface are also disclosed by U.S. Pat. No. 6 169 014 to McCulloch U.S. Pat. No. 6 451 631 to Grigoropoluos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 489 188 to Jung and U.S. Pat. No. 6 635 932 to Grigoropoluos et al.

Methods of using an ultrafast laser to texture the surface of crystalline bulk silicon are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 155 429 to Mazur. Mazur discloses a method of texturing the surface of a silicon substrate by irradiating the surface with ultra short laser pulses in the presence of a background gas such as SF. After texturing the silicon surface in Mazur contains cone like microstructures that are up to 50 m high and have widths of about 0.8 m near the tip and up to 10 m near the base. Also Mills and Kolasinski disclose nanospikes formed atop silicon pillars when the sample is exposed to SFgas diluted with helium 17 Nanotechnology 2471 2006 . Further Vorobyev and Guo disclose the formation of nanoprotrusions with spherical tips on copper gold and platinum surfaces by using a femtosecond laser ablation technique 14 Optics Express 2164 2006 .

While the prior art discussed above provides important advantages it suffers from a number of drawbacks. The prior art fails to disclose a method of producing periodic arrays of pillar structures on a surface of a material by texturing the surface. Further the prior art does not teach a method of texturing and crystallizing a surface in one step. Also the prior art does not teach a method of forming pillar structures on metal surfaces. In addition the prior art fails to disclose a method of utilizing laser texturing and crystallization in many novel applications.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention overcome the above disadvantages and other disadvantages not described above. Also the present invention is not required to overcome the disadvantages described above and an exemplary embodiment of the present invention may not overcome any of the problems described above.

The present invention provides a method for texturing a surface of a semiconductor material including providing an etching gas in an area around the surface of the material irradiating a portion of the surface with short laser pulses and translating at least one of the surface and a laser beam to allow the short laser pulses to impact another portion of the surface. This method produces a periodic array of pillar structures on the surface resulting in changes in properties of the surface.

According to an aspect of the present invention the method additionally produces nanospikes atop the pillar structures.

Also the present invention provides a method for texturing a surface of a semiconductor material including providing an etching gas in an area around the surface of the material irradiating a portion of the surface with short laser pulses while simultaneously crystallizing the portion of the surface and translating at least one of the surface and a laser beam to allow the short laser pulses to impact another portion of the surface. This method produces pillar structures on the surface resulting in changes in properties of the surface.

In addition the present invention provides a method for texturing a metallic surface including irradiating a portion of the metallic surface with short laser pulses and translating at least one of the surface and a laser beam to allow the short laser pulses to impact another portion of the surface. This method produces pillar structures on the surface resulting in changes in properties of the surface.

An aspect of an embodiment of the present invention provides a method for micro texturing a surface of a material. The method may comprise providing a gaseous or vacuum environment in an area around the surface of the material irradiating a portion of the surface with short laser pulses and moving at least one of the surface or a laser beam relative to each other to allow the short laser pulses to irradiate the surface wherein the method produces a periodic array of micro pillars semi periodic array of micro pillars or a non periodic array of micro pillars on the surface resulting in changes in properties of the surface wherein nanospikes are produced atop the micropillars wherein the laser pulses have a duration of between one nanosecond and one microsecond. The material may comprise at least one of metal alloys semiconductor ceramic glasses and polymer or any combination thereof.

In describing an exemplary embodiment of the present invention illustrated in the drawings certain specific terminology will be used for the sake of clarity. However the invention is not intended to be limited to that specific terminology and it is to be understood that the terminology includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner to accomplish the same or a similar result.

Apparatuses and methods consistent with the present invention texture and crystallize the surface of a material in one step by exposing the surface of the material to an ultrafast laser. In order to expose an area of the surface that is larger than the beam spot size the material may be translated relative to the laser. The texturing causes pillars to form on the surface of the material increasing the light absorption of the treated material. Pillars are height variations over a surface including valleys and hills. Pillars can be formed in a variety of shapes including conical arrowhead pyramid and spheroid structures. The top of the pillar has a narrower diameter than the bottom of the pillar. Additionally crystallization increases the electrical conductivity of the treated material. Texturing and crystallizing the surface of the material in a single step allows for faster manufacturing and lower costs than performing these steps separately.

The texturing and crystallization may be performed under atmospheric conditions or while the material to be treated is in a non atmospheric gaseous environment. In such a gaseous environment additional surface texturing will occur through chemical etching. Sulfur hexafluoride and hydrogen chloride gases have been examined and have been shown to be suitable gases in which to perform the surface texturing. Hydrogen chloride is advantageous over sulfur hexafluoride because when sodium hexafluoride is used impurities in the material may result. In contrast when hydrogen chloride is used no impurities are created and the material remains in its pure form. It is to be understood that other gases may also be used. Surface texturing and crystallization have also been achieved in a helium gas environment and in a vacuum.

The materials that have undergone surface texturing and crystallization are also within the scope of the present invention. For amorphous materials the surface will become textured and the material will become crystallized. Hydrogenated amorphous silicon has been examined using the method of the invention and has been shown to be well suited to benefit from this method. Thin film poly crystalline and single crystal materials may also be used. These materials will benefit from the surface texturing methods of the present invention. Silicon and germanium have been studied and have been shown to be suitable materials to undergo the laser treatment method in the presence of sodium hexafluoride gas and hydrogen chloride gas. Metals dielectrics and polymers have also been shown to be suited to be textured using the method of the present invention. However it is to be appreciated that other materials are suited to undergo the laser treatment methods of the present invention.

Additionally the use of materials that have undergone the treatment methods of the present invention is within the scope of the present invention. The present invention has many useful applications. The methods described herein will provide for a material with a higher light absorption capacity and a higher electrical conductivity than an untreated material. These two properties are desirable in photovoltaic applications. Enhanced light trapping capabilities are also useful in photo sensing applications. Photodetectors utilizing the present invention will be more sensitive to light and will be able to detect a broader spectrum of electromagnetic waves.

The surface texturing greatly enhances the heat transfer capability of a given material. A material that has been textured can dissipate more heat through convection because of the increased surface area of the material that is exposed to a fluid flowing over the material. Additionally the texturing will ensure a turbulent flow of the fluid which is advantageous in convection heat transfer. For radiation heat transfer the increased surface area will allow for more heat dissipation.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the surface alteration process was performed on hydrogenated amorphous silicon a Si H in particular a Si H thin films. Thin films with thicknesses from 1.5 to 2 m were deposited on glass substrates using a low temperature Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition PECVD technique. The a Si H films were deposited at a rate of around 1 s in a hydrogen diluted silane environment at about 200 C. The samples were then treated using a femtosecond Ti Sapphire laser system Spectra Physics Spitfire . The laser system delivered pulses at a repetition rate of 1 kHz with a pulse energy that could vary from 0 1.2 mJ and a wavelength of 800 nm. The wavelength of the laser can also be frequency doubled or halved to achieve wavelengths from 200 to 1600 nm. The temporal profile of the pulses was measured to be 110 fs using a background free scanning second order auto correlator. The sample was placed on a stationary stage and the laser beam was deflected by a Scanlab galvo head to scan the sample surface. The beam spot on the sample surface was circular with a beam diameter of 0.5 mm. The beam scanning speed was around 12.5 cm sec. Scanning electron micrographs of treated and untreated surfaces of the a Si H films were taken using a Cambridge Instruments high resolution electron microscope for a surface texture study. Surface roughness and formation of spikes in the treated films were also examined with an atomic force microscope Digital Instruments Nanoscope III .

The optical transmission and reflection of a 20 mm 30 mm laser treated area of the sample was measured using a PERKIN ELMER LAMBDA 9 spectrophotometer. The reflectance and transmittance percentages were then used to obtain the absorption percentage in the material A 100 R T Light from a He Ne laser source was incident on the treated sample at different angles and the scattered light was measured by a silicon sensor with an active region of around 4 cmto estimate the scattering of light due to texturing. It was observed from the measurements that scattering might contribute to a 5 10 variation in the reflection measured by the spectrophotometer. In addition to the optical properties X ray diffraction XRD was performed on the untreated and laser treated samples to study the structural modification induced by the laser treatment. The Rigaku Miniflex 2005 X ray diffractometer with a Cu target CuK line was used for the XRD measurements. The grain size of the treated films was estimated from the X ray data. Also the oxygen incorporation into silicon films during this ultrafast laser treatment was studied using a Physical Electronics Inc. 560 XPS SAM spectrophotometer with a dual source anode Mg Al radiating 1253.6 eV X ray photons.

In order to study the optical characteristics the reflectance and transmittance of a treated 20 30 mmarea were measured using a spectrophotometer. shows the absorptance of treated and untreated a Si H films. that there is a significant enhancement in the optical absorption below a Si H band gap 1.7 eV for treated films when compared to the untreated films in . Since the experiments were carried out under atmospheric conditions XPS spectra of a treated sample and an untreated control sample were also obtained. SiOformation was observed in the treated sample. The oxygen concentration was estimated by taking XPS measurements at different depths of the sample. Depth profiles of the oxygen concentration in the treated and untreated control samples are shown in . Traces of oxygen were observed up to a depth of around 50 nm in treated samples compared to a depth of 10 nm in the untreated control sample. The samples appeared to be pitch black after treatment and it is suggested that the below band edge absorption might be due to trapping the light which is caused by multiple reflections from the textured surface. Also structural defects induced during the micro structuring process most likely produce bands of defect and impurity states in the bandgap and further enhance the overall absorption.

The current voltage characteristics of the treated and untreated a Si H samples were also examined as shown in . shows a graph of the current density as a function of voltage for several light levels for the untreated sample. As illustrated in the current voltage characteristics change considerably due to the surface modification and changes in the properties of the material. The transmission and reflectivity of the treated and untreated surfaces were also examined. The reflectivity of polished silicon unpolished silicon and treated silicon with pillars is shown in . Similarly the transmission of the treated silicon versus the rough silicon surface is presented in . The changes in the optical properties shown in are further substantiated by the changes in reflectivity and transmission as functions of wavelength. These results impact the use of silicon in many applications as discussed below.

In order to measure the roughness and spike distribution atomic force microscopy AFM images of the treated a Si H samples were obtained. shows that spikes of a height of about 300 nm were formed with a spacing between the tips of around 1 m. The heights of these spikes were found to increase with laser fluence. The average height of the microstructures was 150 nm at a laser fluence of 0.3 J cm and the height increased nearly linearly with the laser fluence. Microstructures with a height of around 350 nm were observed at a fluence of 0.5 J cm. Beyond 0.5 J cm the films became very rough and material ablation deteriorated the texturing. Also the average roughness of the surface correlates with the laser fluence as illustrated in the graph in . shows that the surface roughness increases approximately linearly with the laser fluence.

Increasing the efficiency of a Si H thin film solar cells requires more light absorption and a reduction in carrier recombination. A thick i layer increases the light absorption but recombination deteriorates the performance. On the other hand for sufficiently thin film solar cells the light absorption becomes an issue. Keeping a thin micro or nano crystalline phase with surface texturing could both reduce recombination and improve light trapping. The treated surface had a silicon oxide formation layer of about 50 nm and was found to be semiconducting. This layer could be used as an n layer in a p i n type solar cell and an active layer for other optoelectronic devices. The simultaneous formation of light trapping structures and crystallization might find applications in devices such as thin film solar cells large area sensors and display devices.

As discussed previously the femtosecond laser treatment results in the enhancement of optical absorption in a Si H thin films. The high absorption of the film is suggested to be due to the light trapping occurring in the silicon spikes formed at the surface after laser treatment and the structural defects induced during micro structuring process most likely producing bands of defect and impurity states in the band gap. Also crystallization in the film after femtosecond laser treatment is attributed to a non thermal ultrafast phase transition and subsequent surface initiated crystallization. By performing the surface texturing and crystallization as a one step laser process optoelectronic devices can be fabricated efficiently.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention also form nanospiked nearly periodic microstructures by exposing a germanium surface to femtosecond laser pulses in a gaseous sulfur hexafluoride SF environment. The microstructures that are formed in germanium have a different aspect ratio than the microstructures formed on silicon. Because reducing light reflection and increasing absorption are key issues in improving optoelectronic device performance this type of microstructure formation in germanium could lead to the fabrication of highly responsive infrared photodetectors and solar cells. In addition these textured surfaces might find potential applications in the fabrication of biomedical devices and sensors.

The surface modification of germanium can occur according to the following process. Undoped Ge 100 wafers are cleaved into small chips and ultrasonically cleaned with acetone and methanol. One or more chips are put on a stage inside a vacuum chamber with a base pressure of around 1 mTorr which is mounted on a high precision computer controlled X Y stage. The chamber is rinsed with SFat least twice and then backfilled with SFat 400 mbar. The samples are exposed to 1.4 mJ pulses of light with a wavelength of 800 nm a pulse duration of 130 fs and a repetition rate of 1 kHz from a regeneratively amplified Spectra Physics Ti sapphire laser system. The wavelength of the laser can be frequency doubled or halved to achieve wavelengths from 200 to 1600 nm. Short laser pulse widths can also be used including 1 fs to 1 s pulses. Ultrafast laser pulses are a subcategory of short pulses and can range from 1 femtosecond to hundreds of picoseconds. The laser beam is focused along the surface normal onto the sample surface by a coated lens with a focal length of 1 m and the laser fluence is adjusted with a Glan laser calcite polarizer.

The spatial profile of the laser pulse is nearly Gaussian but is elongated in one axis creating an elliptical profile. The fluence is calculated by using the laser spot size which is determined by exposing a point on the sample surface to thousands of shots. In order to scan an area that is bigger than the laser spot size the samples are translated using a motorized X Y stage. Scanning also assists in making the surface structure more uniform by smoothing out any shot to shot irregularities in the beam profile. By varying the scanning speed of the X Y stage the number of laser pulses impinging on the sample surface at a particular location is controlled. The spot size is 0.3 mm along the minor axis and 0.6 mm along the major axis. Scanning is performed parallel to the minor axis.

Samples are produced with isolated single line scans or with large areas created by overlapping several line scans. The step size between the scan lines is chosen to be sufficiently small generally 0.38 mm so that successive lines overlap substantially. This further improves layer homogeneity. Homogeneity is further enhanced by performing two overlapping scans in orthogonal directions rather than one overlapping scan with an exposure of the same total number of shots. After laser processing the samples are analyzed with a scanning electron microscope Zeiss SUPRA 40 .

The SEM images of show the effect of laser fluence on the surface texturing of germanium. In this figure the average number of laser shots at each point on the sample surface is 400. The germanium surface in was irradiated with laser pulses with a fluence of 0.66 J cm and the germanium surface in was irradiated with laser pulses with a fluence of 0.56 J cm. In contrast the germanium surface in was irradiated with laser pulses with a fluence of 0.3 J cm and the germanium surface in was irradiated with laser pulses with a fluence of 0.2 J cm. shows that texturing is observed at fluences as low as 0.2 J cm resulting in features are smaller in width and height less regular less smooth and densely populated with very tiny or no spike formation. However for higher fluence conditions such as those in and the structures are more well developed sharper and more conical and spike formation takes place atop the pillars. Also increasing the number of laser shots from 400 to 600 and keeping the fluence almost the same wipes out all the spikes.

Germanium expands upon freezing. When a shell of germanium material starts freezing and expanding it exerts pressure on the liquid trapped inside causing the liquid to shoot upward and solidify to form nanospikes. As Mills and Kolasinski disclose in order to obtain nanospikes in silicon it is necessary to dilute the SFwith He. This reduces the chemical etching that results from the interaction of fluoride with the silicon surface. If the etching is too aggressive it can remove the nanospikes. In contrast it is unnecessary to dilute the SFin order to obtain nanospikes on a germanium sample probably because of differences in the chemistry of etching in the F Ge system compared to the F Si system. Another possible reason why germanium appears to be more conducive for nanospike formation might be that the thermal conductivity of undoped germanium is less than half of the thermal conductivity of undoped silicon. Therefore the heat dissipation to the pillar in germanium is slower and the liquid bulb remains in a molten state for a longer time as compared to silicon.

In order to investigate the properties of the textured germanium surfaces an X ray diffraction study was conducted. shows an X ray diffraction spectrum of a laser textured germanium surface. The sharp high intensity peak corresponds to the 400 plane because the starting material is Ge 100 . However two relatively weak peaks at 111 and 220 are also observed. This indicates that the textured pillars and the nanospikes remain predominantly crystalline.

The SEM images of and show the structural formations in germanium and compares the structural formations in silicon after laser treatment under similar conditions. For all three samples the laser fluence was around 0.56 J cm the number of laser shots was around 600 the sample was in a gaseous SFenvironment at 400 mbar and an orthogonal scanning mode was used. The SEM image in was taken toward the edge of the scanned line while the SEM image in was taken in the middle of the scanned line. shows that the germanium pillars are not as smooth as the silicon pillars. Also the aspect ratio defined as the ratio of the tip height to the tip width is higher in silicon than germanium for a given laser condition. For example at a fluence of 0.5 J cm silicon has an aspect ratio of around 200 whereas germanium has an aspect ratio of around 100. Also as mentioned previously spikes were not formed on germanium under higher laser shot conditions. However pillars formed under higher laser shot conditions are taller than pillars formed under fewer shots as shown in . In contrast silicon shows a well developed smooth structure under a greater variety of shot conditions.

On the other hand the structures formed under similar laser conditions in the presence of HCl are composed of taller and wider pillars with a height of around 20 m and a base diameter of around 7 m. and show that the pillars formed in SFare narrower towards the tips compared to the pillars formed in HCl. Although the pillar density is comparable in both cases the pillars formed in HCl look stronger and are relatively blunt towards the tip indicating that differences in the etch chemistry of the F Si system and the Cl Si system are responsible for significant structural differences.

The role of chemistry in structure formation is not well understood and it is a significant result that regular conical pillars are formed during femtosecond irradiation in SFas well as HCl. Regular conical pillars can be formed during nanosecond irradiation of silicon in the presence of SF but they are not formed for nanosecond irradiation of silicon in the presence of HCl. Nanosecond irradiation of silicon in HCl produces significantly blunter tips the pillars are much taller with a height greater than 50 m and the pillars are porous instead of having a solid core. This is a further indication that the mechanisms of pillar formation are different for the femtosecond and nanosecond irradiation regimes. This result is also significant because chemical impurities namely sulfur incorporated during laser processing have been implicated in changing the optical and electronic properties of the textured surfaces.

Laser induced surface texturing that produces regular structures on materials in the presence of reactive species is a complex process involving 1 interactions between the plume and the process gas and the plume and the surface such as decomposition of the reactive gas chemical etching enhanced by laser heating of the material and the formation of radicals and deposition out of the plume 2 laser ablation of the material and 3 optical phenomena that initiate the formation of regular structures. The laser parameters gaseous environment and nature of the substrate all play a role in the final outcome of the surface morphology. Structure formation is ultimately a convoluted dynamical process involving all three factors. The dimensions and character of the pillars formed in silicon have been shown to depend critically on the temporal pulse width of the laser beam. While pillar production with pulse durations in the range of 100 fs to 20 ns has been demonstrated with much smaller pillars being formed in the case of femtosecond irradiation pillars were not producible with a 300 ns Nd VOlaser. It appears that laser pulses significantly shorter than the melt lifetime of about 250 ns are required for sharp pillar formation.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention copper or tungsten wires with diameters from 100 to 250 m are used to create interference fringes. The sample is exposed to 1.4 mJ pulses of light with a wavelength of 800 nm a pulse duration of 130 fs and a repetition rate of 1 kHz. The laser scan speed is 0.1 in sec and scanning is performed after placing the sample inside a vacuum chamber filled with SFat a pressure of 400 mbar. In order to create a two dimensional array of pillars the metal wires are crossed orthogonally and placed in the path of the laser beam. Also the spacing between adjacent pillars can be controlled by changing the wavelength of the laser pulses. For example when the laser wavelength is decreased the spacing between adjacent pillars also decreases.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention the laser texturing method was performed on various metallic surfaces. A metal is defined as an electrically conducting material. For example titanium and stainless steel sheets are cut into small square inch sized chips and cleaned with acetone and methanol. One such chip is put on a stage inside a vacuum chamber with a base pressure of around 1 mTorr which is mounted on a high precision computer controlled X Y stage. The chamber is rinsed and then backfilled with air at atmospheric pressure SFin a pressure range from 75 to 800 mbar or helium in a pressure range from 75 to 800 mbar. The laser texturing method can also be conducted with a mixture of gases in different proportions and at different pressures or in vacuum with a chamber pressure of around 1 mbar. The samples are exposed to ultrafast laser pulses with a pulse energy of 0.95 mJ a wavelength of 800 nm a pulse width of 130 fs and a repetition rate of 1 kHz from a regeneratively amplified Spectra Physics Ti sapphire laser system. Short laser pulse widths can also be used including 1 fs to 1 s pulses. Ultrafast laser pulses are a subcategory of short pulses and can range from 1 femtosecond to hundreds of picoseconds. The laser beam is focused onto the sample surface by a coated lens with a focal length of 1 m and the laser fluence is adjusted by using a Glan calcite polarizer.

The spatial profile of the laser pulse is Gaussian and the fluence is calculated by using the laser spot size which is determined by exposing a point on the sample surface to thousands of shots. In order to scan an area that is bigger than the laser spot size the samples are translated using a motorized X Y stage. Scanning also assists in making the surface structure more uniform by smoothing out any shot to shot irregularities in the beam profile. By varying the scanning speed of the X Y stage the number of laser pulses impinging on the sample surface at a particular spot is controlled. The spot size is about 0.3 mm.

Samples are produced with isolated single line scans or with large areas created by overlapping several line scans. The step size between scan lines is chosen to be sufficiently small less than 0.38 mm so that successive lines overlap substantially. This further improves layer homogeneity. Homogeneity is further enhanced by performing two overlapping scans in orthogonal directions rather than one overlapping scan with an exposure of the same total number of shots. After laser processing the samples are analyzed with a scanning electron microscope Zeiss SUPRA 40 .

In addition the laser texturing method is likely to form pillars on ceramics polymers and alloys. By controlling the processing conditions of the laser texturing method for each material the thermal structural optical and electronic properties of the material can be tailored. Further the formation of pillars can be controlled by changing the polarization state of the laser beam. A polarizer can change the output from the laser to be linearly circularly elliptically or randomly polarized. The laser texturing method can be performed on surfaces of any geometrical shape and is not limited to planar surfaces.

Similarly the laser texturing method could also be used to process transparent materials such as glass. The incident light could be absorbed by a two photon process or an appropriate wavelength could be selected for absorption by the transparent material. The altered surfaces formed by this method could be used in magnetic disk drives because the disk drive and the head are spaced very closely together for data writing and reading.

The altered surfaces formed by the apparatuses and methods of the present invention can have great utility in photovoltaic technologies as schematically illustrated in . The increased light trapping and the control of photogenerated charges can provide improved efficiency. In particular the altered surfaces would be beneficial in photodetectors because the surfaces allow for the development of more sensitive detectors with a high responsivity and extend the spectral range into the infrared region of the spectrum. This could also enable the building of infrared sensors for various applications.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in heat dissipation as schematically illustrated in . A large surface area is created by texturing which allows gas molecules to exchange energy with the surface and increases heat dissipation. Such a high efficiency heat sink could be very important for microelectronics power electronics optoelectronics and other devices that require efficient heat dissipation.

The altered surfaces can also be used in field emission as schematically illustrated in . Due to the sharp geometry of pillars formed by the laser texturing process very high electric fields can be generated at relatively low voltages. These high electric fields can be used for electron emission from surfaces providing an efficient source of electrons for various electronic and optoelectronic device applications such as field emission displays sensors and instruments.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in surface property control as schematically illustrated in . Laser textured surfaces can be made hydrophobic or hydrophilic by controlling the texture and surface coating. This can affect the air or fluid flow across the surface of the material.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in micro fluidic applications. There is an increasing number of micro fluidic applications for chemical and biomedical applications of chips. As schematically illustrated in textured surfaces in micro channels can provide a good method of controlling the fluid flow which can impact DNA sequencing and other applications. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in turbulence control for aerodynamic applications. The flow of gases can be controlled by inserting a textured surface into the flow path. Also turbulence can be generated by using of textured surfaces. This effect can be used in aerospace applications.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in an optical beam block as schematically illustrated in . The laser textured surface has an extremely low reflectance and transmittance in the visible to the far infrared region allowing the surface to be an efficient beam block for various optical and manufacturing applications. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in controlling the visual appearance of products including the surface color. The laser texturing process provides a completely black surface hence it can be used to control the color of the surface without using any paints dyes or pigments.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in catalytic activity as schematically illustrated in . The large surface area created by texturing provides many sites for enhanced chemical activity such as catalytic activity. These catalytic activities would be useful in fuel cell technology chemical plants and biomedical applications including conversion of carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide. The large surface area can also be used for enhanced tissue growth and control. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in bond strength improvement. The large surface area created by texturing allows more sites for bonding and interlocking and improves the overall bond strength.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in thin film or fibrous whisker growth. Due to the formation of nanospikes or microspikes it is possible to utilize a large number of tips for growth of other materials atop these tips as schematically illustrated in . Also because a small voltage can provide a high electric field the growth can be controlled by the electric field.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in the production of nano or micro tips as schematically illustrated in . Because the texturing process produces a large array of two dimensional structures micro or nano ordered tips can be fabricated. The nanospikes can be solid or hollow. These tips can be used in atomic force microscopy optical data storage and fluid control for automobiles and drug delivery.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in surface enhanced Raman scattering. The Raman scattering method can be used to detect chemical or biochemical species. Usually Raman scattering signals are relatively low but a Raman signal can be enhanced by many orders of magnitude by surface enhanced Raman scattering. Laser textured surfaces coated with metals could provide an ideal template for surface enhanced Raman scattering for sensor applications such as single molecule detection. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in biosensor applications. As schematically illustrated in specific molecules can be attached atop the tips and can be used for chemical or biochemical detection by using methods such as fluorescence and phosphorescence.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in manufacturing optical elements. As schematically illustrated in various optical elements such as diffraction gratings low scattering surfaces and antireflection surfaces can be prepared by texturing the optical element surface. Also light absorption properties can be tailored by adjusting the laser parameters and thermal annealing conditions.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in photonic crystals. Photonic crystals are increasingly used for optoelectronic applications such as wavelength selection and fabrication of negative refractive index materials. Periodic textured surfaces fabricated by laser texturing would be useful in these photonic crystals. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in producing masters for replication. A textured surface can be used as template for transferring a pattern to a softer material by using mechanical pressure with or without heat. This can provide a very low cost process for pattering surfaces such as compact discs. This process can also be used for transferring patterns to polymerics and biomaterials.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in fabricating mask less periodic structures. By using an optical interference technique periodic textured surfaces can be fabricated with a sub micron period without any mask fabrication. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in pixelated devices. Some optoelectronic and microelectronic devices such as CCD cameras diode lasers and light emitting diodes require a two dimensional geometry. Two dimensional textured surfaces can be easily fabricated for optoelectronic and microelectronic applications. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in producing substrates for single crystal film or nanoparticle growth.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in nano or micro pores. Textured surfaces can be further processed with chemical etching to provide a large number of nano or micro pores which can be used for filtration or fluid flow control. Pores can be made by the laser texturing process if thin substrates are used or if longer processing times are used. The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in controlling surface emissivity. By adjusting the surface texture the surface emissivity and spectral properties can be controlled. This can provide camouflage objects because such objects are harder to detect if they emit a low radiation signal.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in art and photography applications. As schematically illustrated in laser texturing of surfaces can be used to write text and images on surfaces by controlling the light reflectivity of the surface. This technique can be used to produce name plates part identification hidden logos trademarks logos and images. The texturing provides a black color which produces a very high contrast between the written and unwritten areas. The process of the present invention can also be used to control the gray level in forming high definition images.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in radiation shielding. Laser textured surfaces provide a very good method for controlling radiation scattering reflection absorption and transmission over a broad spectral range including visible infrared microwave terahertz and radio waves.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in plasma applications. Sharp tips can provide a very high electric field and hence can be used for localized or large area generation of plasma sources. These plasma sources can be used to purify water kill germs and destroy bio chemical agents.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in protecting substrates from corrosion and improving adhesion such as epoxy adhesion to a metal surface. They can also be used to improve the adhesion of thin films to a surface such as a TiN coating on drill bits which would extend the lifetime of the drill bits.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in bone grafting applications. Body implants can become detached from the host tissue due to inadequate biocompatibility and poor osteointegration. Using laser texturing to change the surface chemistry and physical texture of the implants can improve the biocompatibility and adhesion.

The altered surfaces would also be beneficial in controlling the tribological properties of materials such as friction wear resistance load bearing properties and lubrication. The textured surface can act as a micro hydrodynamic bearing a micro reservoir for a lubricant or a trap for debris particles generated during a sliding or other motion. This could result in significant friction reduction in piston rings. Similarly laser texturing of cylinder liners in the interior of an engine compartment could reduce wear friction oil consumption and gas emissions.

Instead of performing the laser texturing method in chemical gases the method could be performed in the presence of gaseous plasma. Because charged species in gaseous plasma can be very reactive laser irradiation in the presence of gaseous plasma will provide a much faster speed for texture formation and further enable control of surface properties. Plasma sources can be created by various methods such as excitation with a radio frequency RF source direct current DC alternating current AC or a laser system. This approach provides a method for multi energy processing technology where electrical energy for plasma or discharge creation laser irradiation for melting and ablation and chemical energy by the gaseous environment are utilized to enhance the process and the control of the surface properties. Also the sample can be kept at elevated temperatures or the sample surface can be irradiated by an infrared lamp to raise the surface temperature in order to enhance the chemical reactions or reduce the laser energy. In addition plasma or ion etching methods are commonly used for semiconductor chip fabrication and preparation of samples for transmission electron microscopy. The addition of ultrafast pulsed laser energy could be used to further enhance this process.

Combining the laser texturing method with various other processes would also be beneficial. For example a one step process for doping texturing and crystallization would be advantageous from a manufacturing standpoint. Also laser texturing and laser surface cleaning could be combined to provide a one step process. In addition laser texturing and surface passivation could be performed as a one step process. The chemical gas used in laser texturing could provide the surface passivation by sulfur or phosphorous diffusion. Finally laser texturing could be performed in a one step process with surface hardening. For example the surface of steel can be textured and if a reactive gas such as ammonia or nitrogen plasma is used surface nitridation can be achieved. This provides improved surface properties such as wear wetting characteristics and chemical interactions.

The foregoing description and drawings should be considered as only illustrative of the principles of the present invention. The present invention may be configured and performed in a variety of ways and is not intended to be limited by the exemplary embodiments discussed herein. Numerous applications of the present invention will readily occur to those skilled in the art who consider the foregoing description. Therefore the present invention is not to be limited to the specific examples disclosed or the construction and operation shown and described. Rather all suitable modifications and equivalents are within the scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims.

