---

title: Optical film and method for producing the same
abstract: An optical film according to the present invention comprises a transparent base, and an anti-reflection layer that is disposed on one main face of the transparent base. The anti-reflection layer includes a hard coating layer, and a low refractive index layer that is disposed on the hard coating layer in this order from the side of the transparent base. The hard coating layer is formed using a resin containing an ionizing radiation setting resin. The hard coating layer contains a conductive metal oxide in an amount of at least 5 wt % and at most 30 wt % with respect to the total weight of the hard coating layer. The hard coating layer is formed using a coating solution containing water in an amount of at least 0.05 wt % and at most 5.0 wt %.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07871717&OS=07871717&RS=07871717
owner: Hitachi Maxell, Ltd.
number: 07871717
owner_city: Ibaraki-shi, Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061023
---
The present invention relates to an optical film having an anti static function and an anti reflection function and a method for producing the same.

High definition large screen displays typified by plasma display panels PDPs and the like have been rapidly developed. It is necessary to dispose an anti reflection layer having an anti reflection function on the surface of displays in order to prevent outside light from being reflected on the screen thereof. Furthermore displays are required to have an anti static function in order to prevent dust filth or the like from being attached to the screen surface due to static electricity. Thus in conventional displays an optical film having an anti reflection function and an anti static function is disposed on the front face of the screen.

This conventional optical film is formed by disposing an anti reflection layer on a transparent base wherein the anti reflection layer often has a three layer structure in which a hard coating layer a high refractive index layer with a thickness of 1 m or less and a low refractive index layer are laminated in this order from the side of the transparent base. Furthermore an anti static function usually is provided by adding an anti static material to the high refractive index layer see JP 2002 200690A for example .

As the anti static material a conductive metal oxide often is used in conventional examples. However many conductive metal oxides that absorb light with a specific wavelength are colored and thus if the thickness of an anti static layer to which these conductive metal oxides have been added is more than 1 m or if the amount thereof added is excessive then there is a problem in that the total light transmission of the optical film is reduced. Furthermore there also is a problem in that light is prevented from traveling by conductive metal oxide particles and thus the internal scattering of light increases the haze. In conventional examples an anti static material is added to a high refractive index layer with a thickness of 1 m or less as described above and thus the total light transmission is reduced to a lesser extent and the haze increases to a lesser extent.

On the other hand in recent years it has been proposed that an anti reflection layer have a two layer structure comprising a hard coating layer and a low refractive index layer without a high refractive index layer in order to reduce the number of production processes see JP 2000 233467A for example .

However according to JP 2000 233467A a considerable amount of fine particles of a conductive metal oxide are added as an anti static material to a conductive transparent layer with a thickness of several m that is disposed under the low refractive index layer and thus the total light transmission is less than 91 even at the maximum and the haze is 1.0 even at the minimum. In other words the transmittance is not sufficient.

On the other hand it also has been proposed to reduce the amount of the conductive metal oxide added inside the hard coating layer see JP 2003 306561A for example .

However JP 2003 306561A does not describe an anti reflection layer at all and the total light transmission is less than 91 even at the maximum and the haze is 0.9 even at the minimum that is the transmittance is not sufficient as well as in JP 2000 233467A. Furthermore JP 2003 306561A discloses a method for producing an anti static hard coating film comprising a step of performing humidification in an atmosphere with a relative humidity of 35 to 70 but the relative humidity changes depending on the temperature and thus the production conditions cannot be constant so that there is a problem in that the characteristics of produced films are not constant.

An optical film of the present invention includes a transparent base and an anti reflection layer that is disposed on one main face of the transparent base wherein the anti reflection layer includes a hard coating layer and a low refractive index layer that is disposed on the hard coating layer in this order from the side of the transparent base the hard coating layer is formed using a resin containing an ionizing radiation setting resin the hard coating layer contains a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to a total weight of the hard coating layer and the hard coating layer is formed using a coating solution containing water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less.

Furthermore a first method for producing an optical film according to the present invention is directed to a method for producing the above described optical film according to the present invention comprising preparing a hard coating layer coating solution containing an ionizing radiation setting resin a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to a total solid content of the coating solution and water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less with respect to the coating solution applying and drying the hard coating layer coating solution on a surface of a transparent base and forming a hard coating layer on the surface of the transparent base by curing the hard coating layer coating solution.

Furthermore a second method for producing an optical film according to the present invention is directed to a method for producing the above described optical film according to the present invention comprising preparing a hard coating layer coating solution containing an ionizing radiation setting resin and a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to a total solid content of the coating solution in an atmosphere with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less applying and drying the hard coating layer coating solution on a surface of a transparent base and forming a hard coating layer on the surface of the transparent base by curing the hard coating layer coating solution.

According to the present invention it is possible to provide an optical film provided with an anti reflection layer in which the transmittance and the anti static property are high and the scratch resistance is high.

An optical film according to the present invention comprises a transparent base and an anti reflection layer that is disposed on one main face of the transparent base. Furthermore the anti reflection layer has a two layer structure in which a hard coating layer and a low refractive index layer that is disposed on the hard coating layer are laminated from the side of the transparent base. With the two layer structure it is possible to reduce the number of production processes of the optical film.

The hard coating layer is formed using a resin containing an ionizing radiation setting resin. Accordingly it is possible to form the hard coating layer with a smaller number of process steps.

Furthermore the hard coating layer contains a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less preferably 5 wt or more and 20 wt or less and more preferably 5 wt or more and 15 wt or less with respect to the total weight of the hard coating layer. If the conductive metal oxide is less than 5 wt then the anti static function is lowered. If the conductive metal oxide is more than 30 wt then the total light transmission of the optical film is reduced.

Also the hard coating layer is formed using a coating solution containing water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less and preferably 0.3 wt or more and 2.0 wt or less. Accordingly the conductivity of the hard coating layer is improved and thus the anti static property is not lowered even if the amount of the conductive metal oxide added is reduced.

Furthermore the refractive index of the low refractive index layer preferably is set to be lower than that of the hard coating layer. Accordingly even if the anti reflection layer has a two layer structure it is possible to provide a high anti reflection function.

Furthermore the surface electrical resistance hereinafter simply referred to as surface resistance on the side of the anti reflection layer preferably is 1 10 square or less and more preferably 5 10 square or less. The reason for this is that if the surface resistance is more than 1 10 square then it is not preferable because dust filth or the like easily are attached. It is preferable that the surface resistance is as low as possible. However in an actual state if the amount of the conductive metal oxide added is increased in order to lower the surface resistance then coloring is increased and thus the total light transmission is reduced the haze is increased and furthermore the hardness of the coating is reduced and thus the scratch resistance is lowered. Thus the lower limit value of the surface resistance cannot be lower than approximately 1 10 square.

When the anti reflection layer is disposed on the transparent base it is possible to realize a configuration in which the total light transmission of the optical film consisting of the transparent base and the anti reflection layer is 91 or more and the total light transmission of the optical film is higher than that of the transparent base alone. The reason for this is that when the anti reflection layer is provided the amount of light that is incident on the entire optical film is increased.

Furthermore the haze of the optical film preferably is 0.8 or less and more preferably 0.3 or less. Accordingly it is possible to provide an optical film with a low light scattering. Herein the haze refers to a haze value that is described in Japanese Industrial Standards JIS K 7105. It is preferable that the haze is as low as possible but due to the influence of the conductive metal oxide added to the hard coating layer the lower limit value of the haze cannot be lower than approximately 0.2 .

It is preferable that a primer layer is additionally disposed between the transparent base and the anti reflection layer. Accordingly it is possible to improve the adhesive strength between the transparent base and the anti reflection layer.

It is preferable that a near infrared absorption layer is additionally disposed on the other main face of the transparent base. Accordingly when the optical film is disposed on the surface of a PDP unnecessary near infrared rays discharged during plasma discharge are blocked and thus do not adversely affect equipment using electronic components arranged nearby and in particular the problem is solved that remote controllers of a television an air conditioner and the like malfunction.

It is preferable that a primer layer is additionally disposed between the transparent base and the near infrared absorption layer. Accordingly it is possible to improve the adhesive strength between the transparent base and the near infrared absorption layer.

Next methods for producing an optical film according to the present invention are described. A first method for producing an optical film according to the present invention comprises preparing a hard coating layer coating solution containing an ionizing radiation setting resin a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to a total solid content of the coating solution and water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less with respect to the coating solution applying and drying the hard coating layer coating solution on a surface of a transparent base and forming a hard coating layer on the surface of the transparent base by curing the hard coating layer coating solution.

Furthermore a second method for producing an optical film according to the present invention comprises preparing a hard coating layer coating solution containing an ionizing radiation setting resin and a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to a total solid content of the coating solution in an atmosphere with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less applying and drying the hard coating layer coating solution on a surface of a transparent base and forming a hard coating layer on the surface of the transparent base by curing the hard coating layer coating solution.

When a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less preferably 5 wt or more and 20 wt or less and more preferably 5 wt or more and 15 wt or less with respect to the total solid content of the hard coating layer coating solution is added to the coating solution it is possible to provide the optical film with an anti static function without reducing the total light transmission of the optical film.

Furthermore when water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less and preferably 0.3 wt or more and 2.0 wt or less is added to the hard coating layer coating solution it is possible to provide an optical film with a high anti static property in which the conductivity of the hard coating layer is not lowered even if the amount of the conductive metal oxide added is reduced.

Also when the hard coating layer coating solution is prepared in an atmosphere with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less and preferably 13 g mor more and 16 g mor less water can be contained in the hard coating layer coating solution even if water is not added to the coating solution and thus it is possible to provide an optical film with a high anti static property in which the conductivity of the hard coating layer is not lowered even if the amount of the conductive metal oxide added is reduced. The absolute humidity refers to the water vapor content contained in air with a volume of 1 m that is expressed in the unit of gram and is calculated based on the temperature and the relative humidity in the present invention.

Furthermore in the methods for producing an optical film according to the present invention it is preferable that the hard coating layer coating solution is applied and dried on the surface of the transparent base in an atmosphere with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less.

Hereinafter the present invention will be described with reference to the drawing. is a cross sectional view showing one example of an optical film according to the present invention. In an optical film is provided with a transparent base a hard coating layer that is disposed via a first primer layer on one main face of the transparent base and a near infrared absorption layer that is disposed via a second primer layer on the other main face of the transparent base . Furthermore a low refractive index layer is provided on the hard coating layer . The hard coating layer and the low refractive index layer constitute an anti reflection layer.

The hard coating layer is formed using a resin containing an ionizing radiation setting resin. The hard coating layer contains a conductive metal oxide in an amount of 5 wt or more and 30 wt or less with respect to the total weight of the hard coating layer . Furthermore the refractive index of the low refractive index layer is set to be lower than that of the hard coating layer .

There is no specific limitation regarding a material constituting the transparent base and it is possible to use a film or a sheet obtained by processing a resin such as a saturated polyester resin a polycarbonate resin a polyacrylic acid ester resin an alicyclic polyolefin resin a polystyrene resin a polyvinyl chloride resin a polyvinyl acetate resin and a triacetyl cellulose resin for example. The thickness of the transparent base usually is approximately 10 to 500 m. It should be noted that an additive such as an antioxidant a flame retardant an ultraviolet absorber and a smoothing agent may be added to the resin. Furthermore the total light transmission of the transparent base preferably is 80 or more and more preferably 90 or more. Furthermore the haze of the transparent base preferably is 1.5 or less and more preferably 0.8 or less.

There is no specific limitation regarding a material constituting the first primer layer and the second primer layer and it is possible to use a polyester resin a polyurethane resin and an acrylic resin for example. These resins may be used alone or in combination as a polymer blend. It is more preferable to copolymerize these resins with a component having a hydrophilic group such as a carboxyl group and a hydroxyl group because the adhesiveness between the anti reflection layer the hard coating layer the low refractive index layer and the transparent base further is improved.

The primer layers may contain at least one type of particles selected from the group consisting of inorganic particles and organic particles in order to improve the sliding property the curling property the abrasion resistance and the like of the transparent base or to adjust the refractive index. As these particles it is possible to use inorganic particles of for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate silica titanium dioxide alumina barium sulphate calcium fluoride zeolite and molybdenum sulfide and organic particles of for example crosslinked polymer particles calcium oxalate. Among these particles silica particles are preferable because they tend to provide a high transparency. The average particle size of the particles usually is 0.005 to 1.0 m preferably 0.005 to 0.5 m and more preferably 0.005 to 0.1 m. If the average particle size is more than 1.0 m then the surface of the primer layers becomes rough and the transparency of the film tends to be lowered. Furthermore the content of the particles in the primer layers usually is 60 wt or less preferably 50 wt or less and more preferably 40 wt or less. If the content of the particles is more than 60 wt then the transparency of the film may be deteriorated.

The thickness of the primer layers preferably is 20 nm or more and less than 1 m and more preferably 50 nm or more and less than 0.7 m. If the thickness of the primer layers is less than 20 nm then an effect of improving the adhesiveness becomes small. If the thickness is 1 m or more then an effect of improving the adhesiveness is saturated and moreover such a primer layer is economically disadvantageous and also makes the optical film thicker than necessary and thus it is not preferable.

Furthermore it is possible to reduce interference fringes caused by a difference in the refractive index between the transparent base and the hard coating layer by setting the refractive index and the thickness of the first primer layer as appropriate. It is preferable to satisfy n n nor n n n and n n 0.1 taking the refractive index of the transparent base as n the refractive index of the first primer layer as n and the refractive index of the hard coating layer as n because the reflection spectrum of the optical film is improved.

The primer layers can be formed by producing a coating solution containing for example the resin the inorganic particles and the organic particles and applying this coating solution to the transparent base . There is no specific limitation regarding an application method and examples thereof include a reverse roll coating method a gravure coating method a kiss coating method a roll brushing method a spray coating method an airknife coating method a pipe doctor method a dipping method and a curtain coating method. These methods can be used alone or in combination.

There is no specific limitation regarding the ionizing radiation setting resin used for forming the hard coating layer and it is possible to use a monomer a prepolymer and a polymer having for example a vinyl group a meth acryloyl group an epoxy group or an oxetanyl group. These materials can be used alone or in combination of two or more types.

As the conductive metal oxide contained in the hard coating layer it is possible to use an antimony tin oxide ATO an indium tin oxide ITO a phosphorus tin oxide PTO a zinc oxide ZnO a stannic oxide SnO a zinc antimonate ZnSbO and an antimony pentoxide SbO for example. These materials can be used alone or in combination of two or more types. The conductive metal oxide is used preferably in the form of fine particles and the primary particle size thereof preferably is 100 nm or less more preferably 50 nm or less and even more preferably 20 nm or less. The reason for this is that if the primary particle size is within this range then the dispersibility in the ionizing radiation setting resin is improved. Furthermore if the dispersibility of the conductive metal oxide is improved then the haze of the coating is reduced. There is no specific limitation regarding the lower limit value of the primary particle size of the conductive metal oxide. In the present invention the particle size refers to a value obtained by performing a measurement using a laser diffraction scattering method.

The fine particles of the conductive metal oxide are available easily as organosol dispersed in an organic solvent.

If irradiation of ultraviolet rays is performed when curing the ionizing radiation setting resin a photoinitiator is added to a hard coating layer coating solution. As the photoinitiator it is possible to use acetophenones benzophenones ketals anthraquinones thioxanthones azo compounds peroxides 2 3 dialkyldione compounds disulphide compounds thiuram compounds and fluoro amine compounds for example. These materials can be used alone or in combination of two or more types.

Furthermore the hard coating layer coating solution may contain a resin component other than the ionizing radiation setting resin and an additive such as a polymerization inhibitor an antioxidant a dispersing agent a surface active agent a photostabilizer and a leveling agent may be added to the hard coating layer coating solution. Furthermore any amount of solvent may be added to the hard coating layer coating solution as long as the coating solution is dried after being applied using a wet coating method.

The hard coating layer coating solution contains water in an amount of 0.05 wt or more and 5.0 wt or less with respect to the total weight of the coating solution. The reason for this is that when water within this range is present in the hard coating layer coating solution even if the amount of the conductive metal oxide added is reduced the conductivity of the hard coating layer is not reduced and thus an optical film with a high anti static property can be provided. Furthermore methods for adding water within the range to the coating solution may include agitating the coating solution in an environment with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less for a predetermined time in addition to directly adding water to the coating solution.

There is no specific limitation regarding a method for forming the hard coating layer on the transparent base and it is possible to form the hard coating layer by applying to the transparent base a coating solution in which the materials described above are dispersed in an organic solvent for example. Also there is no specific limitation regarding an application method and it is possible to use coating methods such as roll coating die coating airknife coating blade coating spin coating reverse coating and gravure coating or printing methods such as gravure printing screen printing offset printing and inkjet printing for example. The hard coating layer coating solution that has been applied using these methods is dried and then cured by being irradiated with ionizing radiation such as ultraviolet rays thereby forming the hard coating layer .

Furthermore the application step and the drying step of the hard coating layer coating solution are performed preferably in an environment with an absolute humidity of 10 g mor more and 16 g mor less.

The surface hardness of the hard coating layer preferably is H or more and more preferably 2 H or more based on the evaluation according to the pencil hardness test prescribed in JIS K 5600. Furthermore the thickness of the hard coating layer preferably is 1 to 7 m and more preferably 2 to 5 m. If the thickness is less than 1 m then it is difficult to maintain the hardness thereof. If the thickness is more than 7 m a crack or curl warp of the film appears or the total light transmission of the optical film is reduced.

In order to realize the optical film in which the total light transmission of a portion consisting of the transparent base and the anti reflection layer the hard coating layer the low refractive index layer is 91 or more the total light transmission of this portion is higher than that of the transparent base alone the haze is 0.8 or less and the surface resistance of the optical film on the side of the anti reflection layer is 1 10 square or less it is necessary that the amount of the conductive metal oxide added to the hard coating layer is as small as possible the total light transmission of the portion of the optical film is as high as possible and the conductivity of the hard coating layer is exerted to the extent possible and thus it is preferable to adopt an appropriate combination of the following conditions 1 to 8 .

Next the low refractive index layer is described. With respect to the low refractive index layer that is disposed on the hard coating layer it is preferable to set the thickness d thereof such that the following equation is satisfied because the reflectance is lowered. Herein the wavelength often set to 550 nm of light for which the visibility of human eyes is high is taken as and the refractive index of the low refractive index layer is taken as n. 4 

Furthermore the anti reflection property is improved as a difference in the refractive index between the low refractive index layer and the hard coating layer is larger. In order to improve the reflectance the refractive index of the low refractive index layer is set to for example 1.5 or less and more preferably 1.48 or less. Also the low refractive index layer preferably is strong and has an antifouling property because it is positioned at the outermost face of the optical film .

A low refractive index layer coating solution for forming the low refractive index layer preferably contains a material having a refractive index that is lower than that of the hard coating layer and may contain inorganic fine particles with a low refractive index of for example silica having spaces inside the particles or magnesium fluoride a binder and a solvent for example. Furthermore the low refractive index layer coating solution may contain photoinitiator and various additives if necessary.

As the binder it is possible to use any one of organic binders and inorganic binders. As the organic binder it is possible to use an ionizing radiation setting resin made of a monomer a prepolymer or a polymer having for example a vinyl group a meth acryloyl group an epoxy group or an oxetanyl group. Furthermore as the inorganic binder it is possible to use a heat setting binder such as silica sol. Examples of the silica sol include silica sol using silicon alkoxide and acid catalyst or alkali catalyst as starting materials. As the silicon alkoxide for example tetramethoxysilane or tetraethoxysilane is used.

If irradiation of ultraviolet rays is performed when curing the ionizing radiation setting resin a photoinitiator similar to that used for the hard coating layer coating solution may be added.

Furthermore as the additive it is possible to use a polymerization inhibitor an antioxidant a dispersing agent a surface active agent a photostabilizer and a leveling agent for example. Furthermore any amount of solvent may be added to the low refractive index layer coating solution as long as the coating solution is dried after being applied using a wet coating method.

There is no specific limitation regarding a method for forming the low refractive index layer on the hard coating layer and it is possible to form the low refractive index layer by applying to the hard coating layer a coating solution in which the materials described above are dispersed in an organic solvent as in the case of the hard coating layer for example.

Next the near infrared absorption layer is described. The near infrared absorption layer may not be present depending on characteristics required for the optical film but if the near infrared absorption layer is present then when the optical film is disposed on the surface of a PDP unnecessary near infrared rays discharged during plasma discharge are blocked and thus do not adversely affect equipment using electronic components arranged nearby and in particular the problem is solved that remote controllers of a television an air conditioner and the like malfunction. Since the anti reflection layer described above is provided on the optical film even if the near infrared absorption layer is provided the total light transmission of the optical film is high and thus the degree of freedom in designing the near infrared absorption layer increases. Accordingly it is possible to design preferable optical films for displays.

There is no specific limitation regarding a material constituting the near infrared absorption layer as long as it is a transparent material absorbing near infrared rays but a resin usually is used in which a compound absorbing near infrared rays is dispersed.

The compound absorbing near infrared rays preferably is a compound having the maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 850 to 1100 nm. If the near infrared absorption layer contains this compound then it is possible to reduce the transmission of near infrared rays in a wavelength region of 850 to 1100 nm without significantly reducing the transmission of visible light with a wavelength of 400 to 850 nm. Accordingly the optical film preferably can be used as a near infrared absorption filter for a PDP for example.

As the compound having the maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 850 to 1100 nm it is possible to use azo based azine based anthraquinone based indigoid based oxazine based squarylium based stilbene based triphenylmethane based naphthoquinone based diimonium based phthalocyanine based cyanine based and polymethine based organic dyes for example.

As the resin in which the compound absorbing near infrared rays is to be dispersed it is possible to use a polyester resin an acrylic resin a polyurethane resin a polyvinyl chloride resin an epoxy resin a polyvinyl acetate resin a polystyrene resin a cellulose resin and a polybutyral resin for example. These resins may be used in combination of two or more types as a polymer blend.

There is no specific limitation regarding a method for forming the near infrared absorption layer on the transparent base and it is possible to form the near infrared absorption layer by applying a coating solution containing the materials described above to the transparent base as in the case of the hard coating layer for example. Also there is no specific limitation regarding an application method and it is possible to use coating methods such as roll coating die coating airknife coating blade coating spin coating reverse coating and gravure coating or printing methods such as gravure printing screen printing offset printing and inkjet printing for example. The thickness of the near infrared absorption layer preferably is 1 to 10 m and more preferably 2 to 7 m. If the thickness is less than 1 m then it is difficult to absorb near infrared rays. If the thickness is more than 10 m then a crack or curl warp of the film appears.

A compound cutting a neon line spectrum orange of a PDP can be added to the near infrared absorption layer as appropriate. Accordingly red can be developed more vividly on a PDP. As the compound cutting a neon line spectrum it is possible to use organic dyes having the maximum absorption wavelength in a wavelength region of 580 to 620 nm and examples thereof include cyanine based squarylium based diphenylmethane based triphenylmethane based oxazine based azine based thiopyrylium based azo based azo metal complex salt based azaporphyrin based bisazo based anthraquinone based and phthalocyanine based organic dyes.

The thickness of the near infrared absorption layer the type of materials thereof the content ratio thereof and the like may be determined as appropriate so that the spectral transmission factor of the optical film is 20 or less throughout the range in which the wavelength is 850 to 1100 nm.

Hereinafter the present invention is described based on examples but the present invention is not limited to the following examples. It should be noted that parts in Examples and Comparative Examples refers to parts by weight and average particle size refers to the number average particle size.

An optical film for evaluation having a similar structure as that of the optical film shown in was manufactured as follows.

As a transparent base a polyethylene terephthalate PET film total light transmission 92.4 having a property of cutting ultraviolet rays and a thickness of 100 m in which a first primer layer made of a polyester resin containing silica fine particles was formed on one main face and a second primer layer made of an acrylic resin containing silica was formed on the other main face was prepared as a primer layer attached transparent base.

A hard coating layer coating solution was manufactured by sufficiently mixing and agitating the following materials in an environment with an absolute humidity of 11 g m. The water content of the manufactured hard coating layer coating solution was 0.45 wt based on a measurement following the Karl Fischer method.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 25 wt .

Next using a Micro Gravure coater produced by Yasui Seiki the hard coating layer coating solution was applied to the first primer layer of the primer layer attached transparent base in an environment with an absolute humidity of 10 g m and then dried. Subsequently the dried coating was irradiated with ultraviolet rays in a dose of 100 mJ cm and thus the coating was cured thereby forming a hard coating layer with a thickness of 3 m.

A low refractive index layer coating solution was manufactured by mixing and agitating the following materials.

Next using the Micro Gravure coater the low refractive index layer coating solution was applied to the hard coating layer and then dried. Subsequently the dried coating was irradiated with ultraviolet rays in a dose of 300 mJ cm and thus the coating was cured thereby forming a low refractive index layer with a thickness of 107 nm.

A near infrared absorption layer coating solution was manufactured by mixing and agitating the following materials.

Next using the Micro Gravure coater the near infrared absorption layer coating solution was applied to the second primer layer of the primer layer attached transparent base and thus a near infrared absorption layer was formed so that the thickness thereof was 4 m. Thus an optical film for evaluation was manufactured.

A hard coating layer coating solution was manufactured by sufficiently mixing and agitating the following materials in an environment with an absolute humidity of 11 g m. The water content of the manufactured hard coating layer coating solution was 0.51 wt based on a measurement performed as in Example 1.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 17.5 wt .

Next using the Micro Gravure coater produced by Yasui Seiki the hard coating layer coating solution was applied to the first primer layer of the primer layer attached transparent base in an environment with an absolute humidity of 15 g m and then dried. Subsequently the dried coating was irradiated with ultraviolet rays in a dose of 100 mJ cm and thus the coating was cured thereby forming a hard coating layer with a thickness of 3 m. Subsequently as in Example 1 a low refractive index layer and a near infrared absorption layer were formed and thus an optical film for evaluation was manufactured.

A hard coating layer coating solution was manufactured by sufficiently mixing and agitating the following materials in an environment with an absolute humidity of 13 g m. The water content of the manufactured hard coating layer coating solution was 0.65 wt based on a measurement performed as in Example 1.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 15 wt .

Next using the Micro Gravure coater produced by Yasui Seiki the hard coating layer coating solution was applied to the first primer layer of the primer layer attached transparent base in an environment with an absolute humidity of 10 g m and then dried. Subsequently the dried coating was irradiated with ultraviolet rays in a dose of 100 mJ cm and thus the coating was cured thereby forming a hard coating layer with a thickness of 3 m. Subsequently as in Example 1 a low refractive index layer and a near infrared absorption layer were formed and thus an optical film for evaluation was manufactured.

A hard coating layer coating solution was manufactured by sufficiently mixing and agitating the following materials in an environment with an absolute humidity of 14 g m. The water content of the manufactured hard coating layer coating solution was 0.71 wt based on a measurement performed as in Example 1.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 10 wt .

Next using the Micro Gravure coater produced by Yasui Seiki the hard coating layer coating solution was applied to the first primer layer of the primer layer attached transparent base in an environment with an absolute humidity of 14 g m and then dried. Subsequently the dried coating was irradiated with ultraviolet rays in a dose of 100 mJ cm and thus the coating was cured thereby forming a hard coating layer with a thickness of 3 m. Subsequently as in Example 1 a low refractive index layer and a near infrared absorption layer were formed and thus an optical film for evaluation was manufactured.

An optical film for evaluation was manufactured as in Example 1 except that a hard coating layer coating solution having the following composition was used. The water content of the used hard coating layer coating solution was 0.43 wt based on a measurement performed as in Example 1.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 3 wt .

An optical film for evaluation was manufactured as in Example 1 except that a hard coating layer coating solution having the following composition was used. The water content of the used hard coating layer coating solution was 0.39 wt based on a measurement performed as in Example 1.

Accordingly the ratio of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the coating solution was 34 wt .

The following measurements were performed on the optical films in Examples 1 to 4 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2. The results are shown in Table 1 except for that of the transmission of near infrared rays.

The ratio wt of the conductive metal oxide with respect to the total solid content of the hard coating layer coating solution was taken as the content wt of the conductive metal oxide in the hard coating layer.

The pencil hardness of the anti reflection layer of the optical films was measured based on JIS K 5600. It should be noted that the low refractive index layer constituting the anti reflection layer extremely is thinner than that of the hard coating layer and thus the pencil hardness of the anti reflection layer substantially refers to the pencil hardness of the hard coating layer.

Using a spectrophotometer Ubest V 570 type produced by JASCO Corporation a measurement of the total light transmission and the haze of the optical films before providing the near infrared absorption layer was performed taking as the side of incident light a face opposite to a face provided with the hard coating layer of the transparent base.

Using a surface high resistivity meter HIRESTA HT 20 produced by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co. Ltd a measurement of the surface resistance on the side of the low refractive index layer was performed on the optical films after providing the near infrared absorption layer.

Using the above spectrophotometer a measurement of the maximum value of the transmission in a wavelength region of near infrared rays of 850 to 1100 nm was performed on the optical films after providing the near infrared absorption layer taking the side of the near infrared absorption layer as the side of incident light. As a result the transmission of near infrared rays of all the optical films in Examples 1 to 4 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 was 12 or less.

As clearly shown in Table 1 the optical films in Examples 1 to 4 have a lower surface resistance than that of the optical film in Comparative Example 1 and a higher total light transmission a lower haze and better transmittance and anti static property than those of the optical film in Comparative Example 2. Furthermore it is shown that the pencil hardness of the anti reflection layer is 2 H in all the optical films in Examples 1 to 4 and thus a high scratch resistance is realized.

The present invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from the gist thereof. The embodiments disclosed in this application are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not limiting. The scope of the present invention is indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

