---

title: Techniques to communication MAP information elements in a wireless network
abstract: Techniques to communicate MAP information elements in a wireless network are described. An apparatus may comprise a device to establish a communication channel over a common wireless communication link, the device to communicate an encapsulating MAP information element to encapsulate one or more MAP information elements. The encapsulating MAP information element may indicate that the one or more encapsulated MAP information elements apply to multiple communication frames. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07852826&OS=07852826&RS=07852826
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 07852826
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
Wireless communication systems communicate information over a shared wireless communication medium such as one or more portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum. Demand for use of the limited RF spectrum is high therefore creating a constant need to improve bandwidth efficiency and utilization. In many cases wireless communication systems typically communicate control information to assist in the coordination and management of various wireless devices. The use of such control information is typically referred to generally as communication overhead. Reductions in communication overhead may result in an increase in the amount of data traffic carried by a wireless communication system thereby leading to improved bandwidth efficiency.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to wireless communication systems. Some embodiments may be directed to reducing communication overhead in a wireless communication system such as a wireless metropolitan area network WMAN or WirelessMAN . In one embodiment for example a wireless device may be used to communicate MAP information elements carried by communication frames over a wireless communication link to improve bandwidth utilization for the wireless device. This may reduce communication overhead thereby providing communication bandwidth for communicating other information such as the transmission of media content.

In one embodiment for example a wireless communication link between a transmitter node and a receiver node may comprise a communication channel such as a management or control channel. A wireless device such as the transmitter node may be arranged to communicate an encapsulating MAP information element to encapsulate a repeating data element such as a MAP information element as defined by various communication standards which are described further below. The encapsulating MAP information element may provide control or management information to indicate that the MAP information element applies to multiple communication frames. As a result the transmitter node does not necessarily need to transmit a MAP information element with every communication frame thereby potentially decreasing communication overhead. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The nodes of the communications system may be arranged to communicate one or more types of information such as media information and control information. Media information generally may refer to any data representing content meant for a user such as image information video information graphical information audio information voice information textual information numerical information alphanumeric symbols character symbols and so forth. Control information generally may refer to any data representing commands instructions or control words meant for an automated system. For example control information may be used to route media information through a system or instruct a node to process the media information in a certain manner. The media and control information may be communicated from and to a number of different devices or networks.

In various embodiments the communications system may comprise or form part of a wired communications system a wireless communications system or a combination of both. For example the communications system may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wired communication links. Examples of a wired communication link may include without limitation a wire cable bus printed circuit board PCB Ethernet connection peer to peer P2P connection backplane switch fabric semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optic connection and so forth. The communications system also may include one or more nodes arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links. Examples of a wireless communication link may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel Wireless Fidelity WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands.

The communications system may communicate information in accordance with one or more standards as promulgated by a standards organization such as the International Telecommunications Union ITU the International Organization for Standardization ISO the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers information IEEE the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF and so forth. In various embodiments for example the communications system may communicate information according to one or more IEEE 802.11 standards for wireless local area networks WLANs such as the information IEEE 802.11 standard 1999 Edition Information Technology Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between Systems Local and Metropolitan Area Networks Specific Requirements Part 11 WLAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical PHY Layer Specifications its progeny and supplements thereto e.g. 802.11a b g h j n and variants IEEE 802.16 standards for WMAN including the IEEE 802.16 standard such as 802.16 2004 802.16.2 2004 802.16e 2005 802.16f and variants and other wireless networking standards. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The communications system may communicate manage or process information in accordance with one or more protocols. A protocol may comprise a set of predefined rules or instructions for managing communication among nodes. In various embodiments for example the communications system may employ one or more protocols such as medium access control MAC protocol Physical Layer Convergence Protocol PLCP Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM protocol Frame Relay protocol Systems Network Architecture SNA protocol Transport Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP TCP IP X.25 Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP User Datagram Protocol UDP and so forth.

The communications system also may be arranged to operate in accordance with standards and or protocols for media processing. Examples of media processing standards include without limitation the Digital Video Broadcasting Terrestrial DVB T broadcasting standard the ITU IEC H.263 standard Video Coding for Low Bitrate Communication ITU T Recommendation H.263v3 published November 2000 and or the ITU IEC H.264 standard Video Coding for Very Low Bit Rate Communication ITU T Recommendation H.264 published May 2003 Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG standards e.g. MPEG 1 MPEG 2 MPEG 4 and or High performance radio Local Area Network HiperLAN standards. Examples of media processing protocols include without limitation Session Description Protocol SDP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP Real time Transport Protocol RTP Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL protocol and or Internet Streaming Media Alliance ISMA protocol. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the communications system may comprise a transmitter node coupled to a plurality of receiver nodes where n may represent any positive integer value. In various embodiments the transmitter node and the plurality of receiver nodes may be implemented as wireless devices. Examples of wireless devices may include without limitation a subscriber station a base station a wireless access point AP a wireless client device a wireless station STA a laptop computer ultra laptop computer portable computer personal computer PC notebook PC handheld computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA smart phone pager messaging device media player digital music player set top box STB appliance workstation user terminal mobile unit and so forth. In such embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may comprise one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transceivers chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth.

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may comprise or form part of a wireless network . In one embodiment for example the wireless network may be implemented in accordance with a broadband wireless architecture as standardized by the IEEE 802.16 Working Group WG and the Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX forum. The 802.16 WG is developing a series of standards for the Physical PHY and medium access control MAC layers as well as for the security and higher layer network model. The terms 802.16 and WiMAX as used herein may be interchangeable. In such an embodiment the wireless network may communicate information in accordance with one or more of the IEEE 802.16 series of standards for WiMAX and associated protocols. In a WiMAX network the transmitter node may comprise a base station communicatively coupled to one or more receiver nodes comprising wireless clients referred to as subscriber stations.

Although some embodiments may be described with the wireless network implemented as a WiMAX network for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the wireless network may comprise or be implemented as various types of wireless networks and associated protocols suitable for a WMAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Broadband Wireless Access BWA network a radio network a television network a satellite network such as a direct broadcast satellite DBS network and or any other wireless communications network configured to operate in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown in the embodiment of the transmitter node may be coupled to receiver nodes by wireless communication links . A particular wireless communication link e.g. wireless communication link may be arranged to establish one or more common or dedicated connections between the transmitter node and a particular receiver node e.g. receiver node . In various embodiments a particular wireless communication link e.g. wireless communication link may include multiple virtual channels with each of the virtual channels comprising a point to point logical connection from the transmitter node to a particular receiver node e.g. receiver node . In various implementations multiple virtual channels may share a physical link with each virtual channel comprising dedicated resources or bandwidth of the physical link.

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may be arranged to implement the IEEE 802.16 MAC layer operations. For example the IEEE 802.16 MAC layer performs the standard MAC layer function of providing a medium independent interface to the 802.16 PHY layer. Because the 802.16 PHY is a wireless PHY layer the main focus of the MAC layer is to manage the resources of the air link in an efficient manner. The 802.16 MAC protocol is designed to support Point to Multipoint PMP and Mesh network models. Further the 802.16 MAC protocol is connection oriented. Upon entering the network each subscriber station creates one or more connections over which their data are transmitted to and from the base station. The MAC layer schedules the usage of the air link resources and provides Quality of Service QoS differentiation. It performs link adaptation and Automatic Repeat Request ARQ functions to maintain target Bit Error Rates BER while maximizing the data throughput. The MAC layer also handles network entry for subscriber stations that enter and leave the network and it performs standard Protocol Data Unit PDU creation tasks. Finally the MAC layer provides a convergence sub layer that supports Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cell based and packet based network layers.

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may be arranged to implement the IEEE 802.16 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing access OFDMA PHY layer operations. The OFDMA PHY layer supports Time Division Duplexing TDD and Frequency Division Duplexing FDD operations with support for both FDD and Half Duplex FDD H FDD subscriber stations. The 802.16 specification defines a Convolutional Coding CC scheme. Variable rate Block Turbo Code BTC and Convolutional Turbo Code CTC are also optionally supported. The standard supports multiple modulation levels including Binary Phase Shift Keying BPSK Quadrature Phase Shift Keying QPSK 16 Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM and 64 QAM. Finally the PHY supports as options transmit diversity in the Downlink DL using Space Time Coding STC and Adaptive Antenna Systems AAS with Spatial Division Multiple Access SDMA .

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may be arranged to implement a transmit diversity scheme. The transmit diversity scheme uses two antennas at the base station to transmit an STC encoded signal in order to provide the gains that result from second order diversity. Each of two antennas transmits a different symbol two different symbols in the first symbol time. The two antennas then transmit the complex conjugate of the same two symbols in the second symbol time. The resulting data rate is the same as without transmit diversity. AAS is used in the 802.16 specification to describe beam forming techniques where an array of antennas is used at the base station to increase gain to the intended subscriber station while nulling out interference to and from other subscriber stations and interference sources. AAS techniques can be used to enable SDMA where multiple subscriber stations that are separated in space can receive and transmit on the same subchannel at the same time. By using beam forming the base station is able to direct the desired signal to the different subscriber stations and can distinguish between the signals of different subscriber stations even though they are operating on the same subchannel s .

In various embodiments the transmitter node and the receiver nodes may be arranged to communicate various types of information in multiple communication frames. The various types of information may include image information audio information video information audio visual A V information and or other data provided from the media source . In various embodiments the information may be associated with one or more images image files image groups pictures digital photographs music file sound files voice information videos video clips video files video sequences video feeds video streams movies broadcast programming television signals web pages user interfaces graphics textual information e.g. encryption keys serial numbers e mail messages text messages instant messages contact lists telephone numbers task lists calendar entries hyperlinks numerical information alphanumeric information character symbols and so forth. The information also may include command information control information routing information processing information system file information system library information software e.g. operating system software file system software application software game software firmware an application programming interface API a program an applet a subroutine an instruction set an instruction computing code logic words values symbols and so forth.

The transmitter node may be arranged to receive media content from a media source node to be unicast or multicast to one or more of the receiver nodes . In various embodiments the transmitter node may be arranged to receive media content from the source node . The media source node generally may comprise any media source capable of delivering static or dynamic media content to the transmitter node . In one embodiment for example the media source node may comprise a multimedia server arranged to provide broadcast or streaming media content to the transmitter node . In some implementations the media source node may form part of a media distribution system DS or broadcast system such as an over the air OTA broadcast system a radio broadcast system a television broadcast system a satellite broadcast system and so forth. In some implementations the media source node may be arranged to deliver media content pre recorded and stored in various formats for use by a device such as a Digital Versatile Disk DVD device a Video Home System VHS device a digital VHS device a digital camera video camera a portable media player a gaming device and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of for example the transmitter node may be coupled to the media source node through a communication medium . The communication medium generally may comprise any medium capable of carrying information signals such as a wired communication link wireless communication link or a combination of both as desired for a given implementation. In various embodiments the communication medium may comprise a wired communication link implemented as a wired Ethernet and or P2P connection for example. In such embodiments information may be communicated over the communication medium in accordance with the information IEEE 802.3 and the transmitter node may receive media content from the media source node substantially loss free.

Although some embodiments may be described with the communication medium implemented as a wired Ethernet and or P2P connection for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the communication medium between the transmitter node and the source node may comprise various types of wired and or wireless communication media and in some cases may traverse one or more networks between such devices.

The transmitter node may be arranged to buffer media content and to parse or fragment the media content into communication frames for unicast or multicast transmission to the receiver nodes . In some implementations the transmitter node may be arranged to parse or fragment the received media content as it is read into a buffer. In some embodiments the media content provided to the transmitter node may be delivered as one or more media frames. Each media frame may comprise a discrete data set having a fixed or varying length and may be represented in terms of bits or bytes such as 16 kilobytes kB for example. It can be appreciated that the described embodiments are applicable to various types of communication content or formats such as frames packets fragments cells units and so forth.

In various embodiments the transmitter node may be arranged to create a sequence of media frames to be broadcast over one or more of the wireless communication links . Each media frame may comprise a discrete data set having fixed or varying lengths and may be represented in terms of bits or bytes. While multicasting each media frame may contain a destination address comprising a group address corresponding to multiple intended recipients such as receiver nodes . In some embodiments the destination address may refer to all receiver nodes within the wireless network .

Although some embodiments may be described with the media content fragmented into media frames for purposes of illustration and not limitation it can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the described embodiments are applicable to various types of communication content or formats such as frames packets fragments cells units and so forth.

In a WiMAX system the frame structure for a TDD system is divided into DL and UL subframes. The DL subframe is made up of a preamble Frame Control Header FCH and a number of data bursts. The FCH specifies the burst profile and the length of one or more DL bursts that immediately follow the FCH. The DL MAP UL MAP DL Channel Descriptor DCD UL Channel Descriptor UCD and other broadcast messages that describe the content of the frame are typically sent at the beginning of these first bursts although some may be sent at other times as well. The remainder of the DL subframe is made up of data bursts to individual subscriber stations. Each data burst consists of an integer number of slots e.g. where a slot is some number of subcarriers and or symbol intervals and is assigned a burst profile that specifies the code algorithm code rate and modulation level that are used for those data transmitted within the burst. The UL subframe contains a contention interval for initial ranging and bandwidth allocation purposes and UL PHY packet data units PDU from different subscriber stations. The DL MAP and UL MAP include MAP information structures or information elements collectively referred to herein as MAP information elements that completely describe the contents of the DL and UL subframes. They specify the subscriber stations that are receiving and or transmitting in each burst and the coding and modulation used in each burst.

Conventional techniques to communicate MAP information elements however may be unsatisfactory for a number of reasons. For example MAP information elements currently specified for use in WiMAX are not as efficient as they might be in the particular case of persistently scheduled flows in that allocations must be indicated for each individual frame as previously described with reference to a WiMAX frame structure. The 802.16 MAC layer and associated controller when compared with cellular derived mobile voice and data systems has a relatively high amount of communication overhead associated with MAP information elements transmitted in every frame. This is a tradeoff in the MAC design since by transmitting MAP information elements in every frame the base station scheduler is able to respond rapidly to changes in demand and therefore make more efficient use of the available resources when scheduling bursty traffic. Bursty traffic is generally a typical characteristic of Internet traffic for example. This tradeoff however is reliant on the traffic characteristics of a particular flow. In particular it is disadvantageous for at least the following classes of traffic 1 voice traffic 2 constant bit rate multicast broadcast services such as expected to be used for mobile television and 3 allocations of regions for control channels such as ranging fast feedback and HARQ acknowledgement which will typically appear identically in every frame. Because the MAP information elements have to be transmitted in every frame even though an allocation may be repetitive there is a waste of bandwidth in this case. In addition this technique provides a lack of robustness since the loss of such a MAP information element for a given frame means that the data allocation cannot be used in that frame and will be wasted. If a MAP message is corrupted the specific allocation to which it refers will be lost.

In order to solve these and other problems various embodiments include techniques for improving communication of MAP information elements in a wireless system. For example some embodiments specify semi persistent MAP allocations to improve both the efficiency of a device or network by reducing the communication overhead and the robustness of a device or network in that a loss of a single message does not cause a loss of the complete allocation. This may provide several advantages. For example semi persistent MAP allocation techniques may provide better efficiency by removing the need to transmit MAP information elements in every frame for persistent or semi persistent MAP allocations e.g. such as voice . In another example semi persistent MAP allocation techniques may improve robustness by either permitting redundancy among multiple persistent MAP allocations to be exploited or in the case of unicast MAP messages transferring them via a management connection supporting ARQ. In yet another example semi persistent MAP allocation techniques may reduce implementation complexity by permitting reuse of many of the existing MAP definitions included with the various IEEE 802.16 series of standards. In still another example semi persistent MAP allocation techniques are fully backwards compatible with legacy 802.16 devices.

There are two general and distinct implementations for the usage of semi persistent MAP information elements. The first is a semi persistent unicast technique that applies to unicast MAP information elements. Unicast MAP information elements may be used to allocate bandwidth for a unicast DL or UL transmission. The second is a semi persistent multicast technique for broadcast or multicast MAP information elements. Multicast MAP information elements may be used to allocate either for a broadcast or multicast DL transmission or a collection of unicast UL or DL transmissions to or from more than one receiver nodes within the wireless network .

In both cases existing or new allocation data elements are enclosed in an encapsulating MAP information element. The encapsulating MAP information element may be used as a data structure used to enclose other data elements. In the case of WiMAX for example the data element may comprise one or more MAP information elements. The encapsulating MAP information element or enclosing data structure is a newly defined information element. Since the new information element type code is not recognized by legacy devices the entire data structure is ignored by such devices as dictated by some standards. The encapsulating MAP information element instructs devices receiving that particular data structure to interpret the enclosed MAP information element as applying not to a single frame but to a large number of frames described by a pattern included in the encapsulating MAP information element.

In the case of unicast MAP information elements such a data structure may be transmitted using a robust management connection such as an ARQ or other similar technique. In this case because the message transfer is robust the semi persistent MAP allocation may be subsequently torn down by means of an additional management message. The semi persistent MAP allocation may also be made applicable for a finite time period or alternatively be made applicable indefinitely until torn down.

In the case of a broadcast or multicast message however a different technique may be utilized. Since broadcast and multicast messages cannot be assumed reliable and the base station typically has no indication as to whether the message arrive. Consequently such messages should adhere to some general principles. For example semi persistent MAP allocations should not be used with multicast messages and torn down with a subsequent message. Attempting to tear down such an allocation may result in multiple cases of unknown state in the mobile devices. In another example such semi persistent MAP allocations should be applicable for a finite period in the absence of a readily defined teardown mechanism. In yet another example a multicast implementation should use a robustness scheme other than one based on ARQ. Some examples of suitable robustness schemes may be further described with reference to .

As shown the wireless network may comprise a transmitter node coupled to a receiver node . In various embodiments the wireless communications system may comprise or be implemented by one or more elements of the communications system of such as wireless network transmitter node and receiver nodes . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the transmitter node and the receiver node may be implemented as wireless devices and the wireless network may be implemented as an IEEE 802.16 WMAN or WiMAX network. In such an embodiment the wireless network may communicate information in accordance with the information element defined by one or more of the 802.16 series of standards for WiMAX implementing an associated protocol and the transmitter node may comprise a base station communicatively coupled to the receiver node comprising a subscriber station. In various implementations the wireless network may support a unicast and or multicast communication environment for distributing media content by unicasting and or multicasting from the transmitter node to the receiver node . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the transmitter node and the receiver node each may include the capability to establish one or more wireless communication channels . In various embodiments the communication channel may be implemented at the MAC layer of the communication protocol stack within a transceiver and or wireless communication chipset of a wireless device.

In various embodiments the transmitter node may include a pattern generator . Pattern generator may be used to generate a pattern specification that is embedded within an encapsulating MAP information element. A pattern specification may include information that may be used by a receiver node to determine which frames it should apply the MAP information element contained within the encapsulating MAP information element. An example of a pattern specification may be described in more detail with reference to further below.

In various embodiments the receiver node may include a pattern parser . The receiver node may receive the encapsulating MAP information element with the pattern specification and MAP information element. Pattern parser may be used to parse retrieve or otherwise interpret the pattern specification for use in applying the MAP information element to subsequently received communication frames such as unicast frames multicast frames media frames control frames and other types of frames. Once parsed the receiver node may use the same MAP information element for multiple communication frames thereby decreasing or eliminating the need to transmit MAP information for every communication frame.

In various embodiments a multicast implementation may use a robustness scheme represented by the data structure . The robustness scheme is described here by way of example to a particular pattern specification design without loss of generality. The pattern specification describes the frames to which the enclosed MAP information elements apply. As shown in the data structure contains at least four fields 

In the unicast case the transmitter node may transmit a pattern specification via data structure using a management channel e.g. communication channel utilizing an ARQ technique and may also permit the sequence length field to be set to a value which represents infinity. Such a pattern specification can be set up indefinitely until a subsequent management message requests it to be torn down.

A mobile device may use the receiver node and the pattern parser to receive and parse such a pattern specification and determine that the allocation contents are the same as one previously received. The receiver node can determine if the patterns are compatible while recognizing that the newer sequence length extends beyond that of the previous semi persistent MAP allocation. In this case the older semi persistent MAP allocation can be discarded. In this way a mobile device would need to fail to receive 16 such allocation transmissions in a row for the allocation to break. Nonetheless the overhead required to send the information is reduced to 1 16of the original in this example.

Operations for various embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic flow. It can be appreciated that an illustrated logic flow merely provides one example of how the described functionality may be implemented. Further a given logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition a logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example logic flow may comprise establishing a communication channel over a common wireless communication link block . The logic flow may comprise communicating an encapsulating MAP information element to encapsulate a MAP information element with the MAP information element to indicate the MAP information element applies to multiple communication frames block . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments logic flow may comprise communicating or sending various types of encapsulating MAP information elements based on a given communication technique. In one embodiment for example logic flow may comprise communicating a unicast encapsulating MAP information element to indicate the MAP information element applies to multiple unicast communication frames. Logic flow may also comprise communicating a multicast encapsulating MAP information element to indicate the MAP information element applies to multiple multicast communication frames. It may be appreciated that any number of different encapsulating MAP information elements may be defined as needed for a given implementation and these are but two examples. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise communicating or sending encapsulating MAP information elements with a pattern specification. The pattern specification may indicate which communication frames the MAP information element applies. In one embodiment for example the pattern specification may include one or more of a pattern bitmap value in a pattern bitmap field a bitmap length value in a bitmap length field a bitmap offset value in a bitmap offset field and a sequence length value in a sequence length field.

The article and or machine readable storage medium may include one or more types of computer readable storage media capable of storing data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of a machine readable storage medium may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDR DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM Compact Disk ROM CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory e.g. ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory disk e.g. floppy disk hard drive optical disk magnetic disk magneto optical disk or card e.g. magnetic card optical card tape cassette or any other type of computer readable storage media suitable for storing information. Moreover any media involved with downloading or transferring a computer program from a remote computer to a requesting computer carried by data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium through a communication link e.g. a modem radio or network connection is considered computer readable storage media.

The article and or machine readable medium may store logic comprising instructions data and or code that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the described embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software.

The logic may comprise or be implemented as software a software module an application a program a subroutine instructions an instruction set computing code words values symbols or combination thereof. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The instructions may be implemented according to a predefined computer language manner or syntax for instructing a processor to perform a certain function. The instructions may be implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language such as C C Java BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC assembly language machine code and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context. When implemented the logic is implemented as software the software may be executed by any suitable processor and memory unit.

Numerous specific details have been set forth herein to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood by those skilled in the art however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details disclosed herein may be representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

It is also worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

