---

title: Laser based identification of molecular characteristics
abstract: Enantiomers are characterized, identified, synthesized and/or modified with a shaped laser pulse. In another aspect of the present invention, binary shaping and circular polarization are employed with a laser pulse. A further aspect of the present invention provides a quarter-wave plate in combination with one or more pulse shapers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08618470&OS=08618470&RS=08618470
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 08618470
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061129
---
This application is a 371 U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2006 045686 filed Nov. 29 2006 and published in English as WO 2007 064703 A2 on Jun. 7 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 740 898 filed Nov. 30 2005. The disclosures of the above applications are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under CHE0500661 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention generally relates to laser pulse shaping and more specifically to identifying molecular characteristics with a shaped laser pulse.

The almost exclusive handedness of the essential building blocks of life illustrated by left handed amino acids and right handed carbohydrates is one of the most intriguing scientific questions. Interest in the analysis of optically active compounds has grown considerably because of their importance in the biochemical and pharmaceutical industries. In a number of cases one optically active form of a drug is effective while the other is inactive and can have undesirable side effects. The large scale resolution of chiral compounds is presently carried out by crystallization by chemical reaction with chiral reagents by chromatography particularly simulated moving bed SMB techniques or by newer technologies for example membranes automated screening or counter current extractions . Drug discovery and metabolic analysis however involve very small quantities of optically active compounds and could benefit from much greater sensitivity. Similarly the search for the origin of chiral purity found in living organisms requires the ability to identify extremely small quantities of chiral compounds that may be present in meteorites. Increased chiral sensitivity has already shown that right handed amino acids are present in a number of organisms as post translational modifications.

Some studies have been conducted using polarization pulse shaping and an evolutionary learning algorithm selecting a limited number of tests from a very large quantity of shaping variable possibilities. One such experiment is discussed in T. Brixner et al. Quantum Control by Ultrafast Polarization Shaping Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 20 8301 2004 .

In accordance with the present invention enantiomers are characterized identified synthesized and or modified by a shaped laser pulse. In another aspect of the present invention binary shaping and circular polarization are employed with a laser pulse. A further aspect of the present invention provides a quarter wave plate to convert horizontal and vertically polarized light into right or left circularly polarized light which allows for testing pure linear polarization by rotating the plate. In yet another aspect of the present invention a laser system uses a first pulse shaper to introduce multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan hereinafter MIIPS and linear chirp if needed a second pulse shaper to introduce binary and linear for example along the horizontal and vertical axes polarization and or a quarter wave plate to introduce circular polarization to the pulse. In yet another aspect of the present invention a pulse shaper is used to introduce a combination of phase retardation and polarization rotation so as to prepare laser pulses having intense circularly polarized fields that rotate in the 10 100 fs timescale. Methods of using the present invention system are also provided.

Tailored laser pulses of the present invention are used for low concentration molecular identification through chiral fields which induce differential fragmentation of enantiomeric compounds. By coupling these intense laser pulses with a mass spectrometer great for example single molecule sensitivity and chiral resolution will be obtained. Enantiomeric pairs are non superimposable mirror images of one another often identified as right or left handed molecules with identical chemical properties except when reacting with another chiral reagent such as enzymes. A mass spectrometer of the present invention uses chiral femtosecond laser pulses which act as photonic enzymes that preferentially fragment right or left handed molecules. Thus the mass spectrometry of the present invention can now be used to identify all types of stereoisomers without additional chemical reactions an important capability for a method with growing application to drug discovery and metabolic analysis. Conceptually a chiral pulse causes asymmetric switching between right and left circularly polarized light and leads to differential laser induced fragmentation and ionization in enantiomerically different molecules. A right handed enantiomer will couple to the chiral electromagnetic field differently than a left handed enantiomer. Therefore an intense pulse with a specific succession of right and left optical torques would thereby play the role of a chiral photonic enzyme preferentially cleaving one of the enantiomers. Based on this physical model the order of the applied set of torques should determine which of the enantiomer is preferentially cleaved. This is ideally suited for testing chirality in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals and protein sequencing especially when the undesired chirality amino acids or molecules are in very low concentrations.

Furthermore the present invention advantageously uses binary settings 0 and or right and left circular polarization for example instead of a continuum of overly large values to reduce the number of shaped pulses that need to be tested for effectiveness. This allows use of all possible shaped pulses but without the inaccuracies and delay of a genetic learning algorithm with the preferred embodiment. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a preferred embodiment of a laser system of the present invention employs a femtosecond laser operable of emitting laser beam pulses of a duration of about 10 100 fs and preferably about 35 fs a programmable computer controller and a time of flight mass spectrometer . In the spectrometer the electron impact source is replaced by amplified femtosecond laser pulses that are polarization shaped using a modified phase amplitude pulse shaper . Pulse shaper includes two gratings flanking a spatial light modulator which is at the Fourier plane. The laser pulse is dispersed in the frequency domain and discrete spectral regions are flipped from horizontal to vertical polarization. After spatial light modulator SLM a quarter wave length plate is optionally used to convert the linear polarization vertical and horizontal into circular polarization right and left respectively. This device allows the controller to quickly test pure linear polarization by rotating the quarter wave plate either manually or with an automatically controlled electromagnetic actuator . The binary polarized pulses are then focused on a small concentration of molecular species in the gas phase approximately 10molecules interact with each laser pulse . The resulting ions and fragment ions are detected and identified by their time of flight to the detector. The combination of polarization shaping and the quarter wave plate results in fields with rapidly switching circularly polarized light as shown in and

The laser pulse shaper controller mass spectrometer and a multiphoton intrapulse interference phase scan MIIPS procedure are as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 177 940 invented by Dantus et al. and filed on Jul. 8 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein. Additionally quarter wave plate is preferably a zero order air spaced CVI Laser LLC Part No. QWPO 800 10 4 AS10 wave plate centered at the same wavelength as the fs laser pulse being used preferably 800 nm. In the present example a pulse shaper is preferably a liquid crystal dual mask phase amplitude pulse shaper but other spatial light modulators based on acousto optics or micro electro mechanical systems MEMS may alternately be used.

Pulse shaping as used herein preferably controls the phase and amplitude of different frequency regions within the bandwidth of a femtosecond laser beam pulse. This manipulation is usually done in the frequency domain and results in large frequency and temporal changes in the output field. Polarization shaping as used herein preferably controls the direction in which the electric field is pointing for different frequencies within the bandwidth of the femtosecond pulse. Polarization is beneficial since molecules usually align their dipole moments in the direction of the electric field. Fast changes in the electric field direction causes torques in the molecules.

More specifically femtosecond oscillators come in three main categories very compact fiber based systems 100 200 fs pulse duration prism compressed Ti Sapphire systems 10 20 fs and chirped mirror compressed Ti Sapphire systems 

High energy laser systems can be divided broadly by their method of amplification into regenerative or multi pass. Regenerative amplification provides a more efficient use of the gain and better stability however the regenerative amplification cavity results in greater phase distortions in the output pulse. Multi pass amplification avoids some of these phase distortions by minimizing the number of optical elements and the number of times the laser pulse transmits through them. Shorter pulses can usually be achieved by multi pass amplification but with greater alignment difficulty and lower pulse to pulse stability than the regenerative amplification systems. shows a schematic of a high energy laser system capable of producing amplified phase shaped pulses with durations down to 30 fs at a repetition rate of 1 kHz and with 0.7 mJ energy per pulse. With this system most of the distortions accumulated by the laser pulse inside the regenerative amplification cavity can be compensated by a pulse shaper . At the same time the loss introduced by the shaper is compensated at an amplifier . The result is a very stable source that achieves fs pulse duration 33 nm bandwidth . Pulse shaper is introduced between an oscillator and regenerative amplifier to compensate nonlinear phase distortions introduced by the laser system itself and farther down the beam path and to compensate for spectral narrowing in the amplifier.

Another dimension of laser control employed with the present invention beyond phase and amplitude is control of the polarization state of the field. Full control of polarization requires four independent degrees of freedom for each spectral component. When using two orthogonally oriented liquid crystal spatial light modulators as illustrated in the incident x polarized light E exits with field components E E that depend on the phase retardance and introduced by the liquid crystal elements whose slow axis is oriented at 45 and 45 . This arrangement together with an output polarizer can be used to achieve phase and amplitude shaping at each pixel. It is also possible with this arrangement to generate a linearly polarized output along the x H or y V axes or circular left L or right R polarized light E E iE 2 E E iE . Using a 5 bit basis set H V L R see and Table 1 phase amplitude and polarization effects are produced very efficiently. This set does not cover all possible arbitrary fields but provides a digital binary approach for electric field manipulation that in most cases is sufficient to explore the sensitivity of the system to the different properties of the field. Thus it is possible to introduce a phase delay for each pixel and rotate polarization horizontally or vertically or to create right or left circular polarization.

Table 1 phase retardance for A and B elements to achieve binary states 0 and 1 in amplitude phase linear or circular polarization 

Rotation of the optical axis angle of the quarter wave plate allows the operator to determine the ellipticity of polarization of the pulses. Circular polarizations are obtained at 45 and linear polarizations at 90 . Changing the optical axis angle provides a reliable control because it only affects the polarization of the beam but no other variable such as energy or dispersion. Occasionally the femtosecond pulses are first linearly chirped in order to spread the different frequencies within the pulse in the time domain such that redder frequencies arrive first positive chirp or last negative chirp .

The shaped and polarized femtosecond pulses of the present invention are preferably used to test for optically active or chiral characteristics of a specimen more specifically for enantiomers and or stereoisomers therein. In order to find the greatest enantiomeric specificity the effect of 512 different circular polarization shaped pulses are evaluated on the relative peak ratios of the different fragment ions of the samples. These pulses correspond to half of all possible 10 bit polarization functions that can be obtained by combining right and left circular polarization. From these 512 experiments the pulses are found which give the greatest difference in ion product ratios A B between the R and S enantiomers. From these pulses mass spectra for both compounds are generated. The binary polarization that gives the greatest contrast between the compounds is automatically calculated and determined by controller . Using this polarization setting a hundred measurements are made for each of the enantiomers.

In another theoretical example this time with stretched laser pulses it is expected that the pulses are a factor of two longer with the redder frequencies preceding the bluer ones or vice versa. Once again one hundred measurements for each pulse type and molecule are employed expected measured ratios between the fragments when circularly polarized negatively chirped pulses are used and then automatically evaluated by controller . The addition of negative or positive chirp may slightly increase the contrast ratio for the sample enantiomers. The contrast observed may be reversed when going from a negatively chirped pulse to one that is positively chirped. This reversal is predicted by the fact that the time order of the different frequency components of the pulse is reversed for positive or negative chirp.

By way of a theoretical example a fragment ion corresponding to loss of a methyl group may exhibit the greatest sensitivity to the chiral laser pulses. Furthermore the number of polarization flips introduced by the shaper correlates with the degree of contrast. This indicates that higher levels of discrimination will be possible using polarization phase functions with higher bit resolution. Referring to and analysis of a number of electric fields that are found capable of enantiomeric resolution show a linear polarization component that precedes the large rotating component that is reminiscent to a propeller like shape in other words with a helical and zig zag radiating shape. The direction and curvature of the propeller component determines the enantio selective photochemistry.

It is noteworthy that if the wave plate is rotated 45 then positive results are expected. But if it is rotated 0 or 90 then negative results are expected. Furthermore pure left or right light is expected to generate negative results. All of the degrees are relative to the designed optical axis of the compound.

Two pulse shapers or are provided so that the first one is controlled by the controller to correct phase distortions in the pulse and can impart both phase and amplitude shaping. The second shaper subsequently controls the final polarization of different frequency components in the shaped pulse. The pulse is preferably preceded by a long field of about 1 2 picoseconds that is plane polarized. This serves to align the molecular dipoles. Then the shaped pulses should contain one or more propeller structures or characteristics to impart torques on the molecules. These torques break the molecules but enantiomers will twist in opposite directions. The propeller structures should have a duration between 20 fs and 1 ps to be effective on the molecular time scale. Such shaped pulses can be combined with a second linearly polarized laser that is also incident on the same molecules and aligns a second axis of the molecules. Accordingly the molecules are aligned and oriented before the intense propeller pulse breaks the molecules. A final field is delayed in time and ionizes neutral fragments resulting from the interaction with the shaped pulses.

The present invention is used to test for chirality in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. An electro spray source is coupled to an ion trap mass spectrometer. Once the desired ions are trapped the controller automatically interrogates them by the phase and polarization shaped pulses. This method advantageously interrogates ions such that the pulses only need to cleave one or more bonds but they do not have to ionize. This should increase enantiomer selectivity. Automated MIIPS pulse distortion detection and compensation in combination with polarization maximizes performance of the laser systems especially for pharmaceutical manufacturing. Subsequent shaped pulses can then be automatically controlled by the controller to destroy undesired enantiomers in the product or compound.

Alternately the present invention MIIPS shaping and polarization is employed in protein sequencing. This advantageously determines the handedness of the amino acids. The present invention should advantageously work even for very low concentrations in detecting and optionally destroying undesired amino acids with the incorrect chirality thereby removing poisons and diseases therein. In another variation the present invention employs a circular dichroism spectrometer to determine a secondary protein structure of the specimen. The detected response of the specimen to differently shaped and or polarized pulses provides information about the secondary structure of proteins and carbohydrates therein for analysis and or determination by the controller.

It is noteworthy that the present invention s use of binary or 0 settings of right and left polarization allows for testing of essentially all pulse shape values for enantiomer sensitivity testing rather than prior experiments where only a limited quantity of shaping values were attempted since the genetic learning algorithms employed therein was overly time consuming. Thus the system of the present invention preferably evaluates essentially all pulse shaping possibilities and then proceeds to carry out an exhaustive evaluation of the search space. The binary function reduces the search field in the present invention but without reducing effectiveness. This speeds up the analysis process considerably.

In summary it is possible to prepare laser pulses capable of resolving enantiomeric pairs. At the fundamental level the ability to prepare chiral pulses opens a window into the nature and dynamics of optical activity at the level of individual molecules. These observations can be developed for the reliable identification of a large number of enantiomeric species that would require analysis in areas such as metabolomics. A different application that could be envisioned would be the enantiomeric purification of a racemic mixture. Thus enantiomeric identification and enhanced enantiomeric fragmentation of the present invention are ideally suited for testing chemical constituents for enantiomers for subsequent processing into pharmaceuticals. This type of laser pulse can also be used to determine the tertiary structure of proteins for example beta sheet or alpha helix. It can also be used to identify enantiomeric characteristics in amino acid for use in protein sequencing. The pulse is automatically generated shaped chirped and polarized then the pulse is used in a mass spectrometer in combination with a controller to automatically determine differences in fragmentation patterns especially of enantiomers. Thereafter or simultaneously the same pulse or a subsequent shaped and low intensity pulse can be used to either destroy undesired enantiomers for example left handed molecules in a mixed compound solution or to direct chemistry to prepare single type enantiomers.

While various embodiments are disclosed it is envisioned that further variations may fall within the scope of the present invention. For example the pulse shaper may alternately provide 45 and or circular polarization thereby negating the need for a separate quarter wave plate. Furthermore pulse durations of less than 1000 fs less than 51 fs and possibly less than 10 fs may be used although some of the benefits of the present invention may not be realized. Similarly the wavelength of the laser may be 800 nm the fundamental wavelength of a titanium sapphire laser its second harmonic may be at 400 nm or its third harmonic may be at 266 nm such shorter second and or third harmonic wavelengths may be advantageous for improved sensitivity in selective chemistry as compared to longer wavelengths which lead to field ionization and less sensitivity with molecular structures. For example ultraviolet pulses of less than 100 fs may be used. Ultraviolet pulses having a center wavelength shorter than approximately 420 nm and a bandwidth greater than approximately 10 nm can be used with the present invention especially with an actively controlled pulse shaper and a pulse having a center wavelength less than 300 nm and a bandwidth greater than 5 nm is even more desirable. The present invention is also ideally suited for use in material processing such as micromachining silicon microprocessor chips with a shaped and polarized laser pulse especially employing MIIPS. While various materials and equipment types have been disclosed it should be appreciated that a variety of other materials and hardware can be employed. It is intended by the following claims to cover these and any other departures from the disclosed embodiments which fall within the true spirit of this invention.

