---

title: Method and apparatus for location-based wireless connection and pairing
abstract: A method for wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device comprises providing a storage device adapted to store communication information for the peripheral device and being readable by the first device, the storage device being spatially separated from the peripheral device. The method also comprises positioning the device so that the first device can read communication information for the peripheral device before communicating with the peripheral device. An apparatus comprises a storage device including data for wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device within a location, the apparatus being positioned in or near the location and adapted for storing communication information for the peripheral device. The communication information can be read by the first device, allowing the first device to communicate with the peripheral device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08571598&OS=08571598&RS=08571598
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08571598
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061218
---
The embodiments of the invention relate to location based wireless communication connection and pairing for computers and peripherals. The embodiments of the present invention relate more specifically to using a device for storing location specific connection and pairing information for use in location based wireless communication between computers and peripherals.

Known computers including mobile computers benefit from the use of wireless communication protocols particularly with respect to peripheral devices that are used with the computer. Using a standardized wireless technology such as Bluetooth allows standardized communication between a computer and integrated wireless peripherals. Bluetooth is an industrial specification for wireless personal area networks PANs and utilizes the 2.4 GHz ISM band. Bluetooth is based on a short range radio link so that line of sight connection is not always required. Bluetooth provides a way to connect and exchange information between devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs mobile phones laptops PCs printers digital cameras and video game consoles via a secure globally unlicensed short range radio frequency.

Wireless communication for example between a computer and a peripheral via a wireless communication protocol such as Bluetooth can require that connection and pairing take place which can be time consuming when there are numerous devices with which to pair. Thus as used herein wireless communication can include both connection and pairing. For security reasons two Bluetooth enabled devices may need to be paired before they can exchange data. The term pairing refers to the two devices exchanging a protected security identification number or passkey. The term connection refers generally to two devices exchanging appropriate information to begin communication. In the context of Bluetooth wireless communication connection can more specifically refer to the process of performing an inquiry to find another device or trying to connect to a known address for another device and receiving a response from the other device that may include its name class and a list of services. Use of a device s services following connection may require pairing which is defined above. The passkey is a unique password shared by the devices when initially paired. Most Bluetooth devices come with a default passkey. The difference between connection and pairing is that the pairing process saves the connection information device name passkey and other information so that two Bluetooth devices can connect automatically when they are within range of one another. In establishing a wireless connection between a computer and a peripheral the devices first pair using a pass key and thereafter can usually connect to choose services. Sometimes subsequent pairing is not necessary after the first time devices are paired and communicate so pairing will not take place however pairing may need to occur if for example the stack is somehow reset.

Connection and pairing can be particularly cumbersome in a hospital or other business environment where there may be multiple wireless devices in close proximity. For example in a hospital there may be several Bluetooth enabled devices to monitor a single patient and one or more patients in a single room. When a user such as a doctor nurse or other medical personnel needs to read data from one of the wireless devices he must perform the following steps 1 locate all of the wireless devices in the vicinity 2 pair with a wireless device from which he wants to read data 3 search the services available in that wireless device and 4 select and connect to the desired service. Vicinity as used herein is defined to include the range in which a wireless device such as a Bluetooth enabled device can connect to the computer. The computer will locate all of the wireless devices that are close enough or properly situated to communicate with it. The wireless device may include for example medical equipment such as a stethoscope blood pressure monitor or glucose monitor. There are other types of wireless devices from which a user may want to read data including a cellular phone or PDA.

If there are multiple Bluetooth enabled devices in the vicinity of the user when he attempts to obtain data the user has to follow the above four steps for each piece of information needed. The needed information may include for example the patient s name identification number medication types and dosages blood pressure pulse glucose level etc.

As used in the specification and claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example the term an array may include a plurality of arrays unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Further Table 1 below lists various acronyms and terms of art used herein.

To avoid the cumbersome connection and pairing process described above the present invention contemplates providing an information storage device such as a radio frequency identification RFID tag that can be used to store the connection and pairing information for any and all wireless devices e.g. peripherals to which a computer may need to connect when it is in a particular location. The storage device is spatially separate from the peripheral s for which it holds connection and pairing information as described below. An RFID tag is an object that can be attached to or incorporated into a product animal or person for the purpose of identification using radio waves. Chip based RFID tags contain silicon chips and antennas. The present invention contemplates using other information storage mechanisms besides RFID tags for storing and remotely retrieving data such as transponders. The information storage mechanism can be used in hospitals offices homes etc. and can be implemented via hardware or software.

In one embodiment the invention is a method for wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device comprising providing a storage device adapted to store communication information for the peripheral device and being readable by the first device the storage device being spatially separated from the peripheral device. The method also comprises positioning the device so that the first device can read communication information for the peripheral device before communicating with the peripheral device.

The invention also includes an apparatus comprising a storage device including data for wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device within a location the apparatus being positioned in or near the location and adapted for storing communication information for the peripheral device. The communication information can be read by the first device allowing the first device to communicate with the peripheral device.

The invention also includes a method for location based wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device comprising moving the first device to a location within range of a peripheral device retrieving communication information for the peripheral device from a device other than the peripheral device and using the communication information to communicate with the peripheral device so that information can be retrieved from the peripheral device.

The invention further includes a method for location based wireless communication between a first device and a peripheral device. The method comprises obtaining communication information for a peripheral device storing the communication information on a storage device moving the first device to a location within range of the peripheral device and the storage device retrieving communication information for the peripheral device from the storage device and using the communication information to communicate with the peripheral device so that information can be retrieved wirelessly from the peripheral device. The peripheral device and the storage device are spatially separated.

An illustrative embodiment of the computer e.g. a tablet PC for use with the device and method of the present invention is described in detail hereafter and shown in . As shown the motherboard includes a CPU. In this embodiment the illustrative CPU is a 478 ball Dothan ULV processor in a Micro FCBGA package. The CPU may be soldered down to the motherboard or it may be socketed to facilitate the replacement of defective units to permit the end user to upgrade the processor etc. The selected CPU runs nominally at 1.2 GHz in High Frequency mode and at 600 MHz in Low Frequency mode. Other CPUs may be used although size heat dissipation and power requirements may change in other parts of the system. Those skilled in the art will recognize and be able to adapt hardware aspects that must be accommodated for other processors.

Faster processors for example may be larger in size and generate more heat while consuming more power and smaller processors may require less power and generate less heat that must be removed from the system. The selected CPU can also supports enhanced technologies for voltage and frequency scaling.

The system memory may be determined based on the intended application of the tablet PC through the use of commercially available memory modules. The illustrative embodiment of may contain a single channel 400 MHz DDR2 capable SODIMM socket. A default configuration employing one DRAM module of 1 GB size can accommodate a wide variety of applications although larger and smaller DRAM modules are available and can be installed at the time of manufacturing. In applications where the memory is not hard wired to the motherboard and the tablet PC chassis permits opening by the user the user or technician may be provided with the ability to change memory modules to replace defective units or increase memory capacity.

A variety of commercially available system clocks may be employed as well. The present exemplary embodiment employs the CK 410M Clock Synthesizer.

In communication with the processor via the motherboard s front side bus might be the GMCH or North Bridge as it is commonly referred to in the art. The GMCH memory and graphics controller functions can be provided by an Alviso SFF graphics memory controller hub model 915GMS and packaged in an 840 ball 27 mm 27 mm Micro FCBGA package and is usually soldered to the motherboard. It may in some instances be useful to provide the GMCH in a socketed configuration if convenient substitution of the unit is desirable.

Video capability may be provided via a TFT LCD or other flat panel display that can be incorporated into the chassis of the device. In the present embodiment only a single display is required thus the analog TV Out and digital SDVO outputs can be disabled on the graphics controller. Only the LVDS interface to an LCD panel or other is necessary. Other outputs may be enabled and external ports may be provided with adequate safeguards taken to avoid increasing the risk of liquid incursion into the chassis in instances where external video is desirable.

The ICH also referred to as the South Bridge provides I O capabilities. In one embodiment of the present tablet these services are provided by the ICH6 M I O controller hub ICH . This ICH may provide an x2 DMI interface to the North Bridge a PCI Bus which can be routed to one or more MiniPCI card connectors a PCI Express PCIe Bus which may be routed to one or more MiniCard card connectors a PATA interface for providing a data path to a hard disk drive and a SATA interface. The SATA interface may or may not be used depending on the number and types of data storage units required. Other storage device interfaces may be used as well if a different ICH is selected for use in the tablet.

The ICH can also provide USB ports. The ICH6 M ICH provides Eight 8 USB ports for devices such as cameras barcode readers Bluetooth wireless communications controllers docking connectors etc. Other ICHs may provide more or less depending on the needs of the system and the anticipated number of USB peripherals. As well the ICH should provide an audio bus to provide the device with sound capability. The ICH of this illustrative embodiment is configurable for AC 97 or Azalia High Definiton Audio.

The ICH can also provide a LPC Low Pin Count Bus. The LPC bus may connect to the firmware hub i.e. the Flash EPROM storing the BIOS code and support the use of a KSC or embedded controller in this embodiment a Hitachi H 8 Keyboard System Controller . The LPC may also provide a communications path to a Super I O chip with two RS 232C serial ports and a TPM Trusted Platform Module chip that provides security key storage. Variations between available ICHs may permit different hardware to be connected to the system via the southbridge to accommodate varying hardware configurations.

The system may also employ thermal sensors to permit monitoring of thermal conditions within the chassis and for various components on the motherboard. Most modem CPU s such as the one employed in the exemplary embodiment include an on die thermal sensor. Further an external thermal diode positioned very near the CPU package can be connected to a remote thermal sensor. The remote thermal sensor s SMBus may interface with the KSC s SMBus and also with the processor s Critical Thermal pin. When the Critical Thermal pin is driven the processor is designed to perform an emergency shutdown. Typically when such a shutdown occurs the operating system state will not be saved. Prior to that event the current temperature can be read via the KSC and the KSC may also be programmed to provide a warning interrupt when a temperature threshold also called a thermal trip point is crossed. Additional sensors may be employed to increase the level of monitoring or for system design debugging purposes.

System power may be provided by an internal system battery pack or by mounting in a dock which provides an external connection to an AC DC converter brick . The battery pack can be charged through an on board charger using for example a battery charger controller controlled by the KSC. The charger may then be used to charge and control the batteries and provide system regulation of 12.6VDC when external power is provided. When only battery power is available the voltage may typically range from a maximum of about 12.6VDC fully charged down to a minimum of about 9.0VDC at discharge cut off . Different power supply schemes of course may result in variations of the minimum and maximum voltages.

The power from the two paths described above is typically input to most of the on board voltage regulator circuits to provide power to all system components. The input voltage may be converted by various commercially available components to provide a variety of rail voltages. In the present embodiment a 4 in 1 controller e.g. a TPS5130 may be employed to develop the system voltage rails including at least 5.0V 3.3V 2.5V and 1.5V ALWAYS . Other voltage rails may be developed and supplied to peripherals and system hardware by employing appropriate voltage controllers.

Various always power rails may be switched using FETs Field Effect Transistors to provide switched rails when system S states require power to be controlled on or off at various times.

According to the present illustrative embodiment six 6 Lithium prismatic cells such as the Panasonic CGA103450A are bundled into a single battery pack in a 3S2P geometry. A charging controller board may also be included in this package. Each cell typically provides 1950 mAh of storage nominally at 3.7VDC for a total pack capacity of 3900 mAh at 11.1VDC.

At an average and continuous system consumption rate for example about 12 W a battery life of approximately 3 hours on a single charge may be anticipated. When the system is in suspend or hibernate mode battery life will be extended. During times of heavy use complex computation battery life will shorten.

The dock may also contain a charging cavity for a second battery which can preferably be warm swapped exchanged without powering down the system with a discharged battery while the tablet PC is stationed in the dock and receiving A C power.

An A C power brick typically provides electrical service to the dock. The A C power brick may be one such as the Powertron Electronics Corporation model F10653 A. This pack is designed to connect to the wall source power on one end and the docking cradle on the other end. Such a brick may accept input at 110 VAC to 240 VAC from 47 Hz to 63 Hz so should be usable worldwide assuming the correct physical adaptor plug is used. Typically units manufactured for the North American market might be supplied with a 3 prong grounded plug. Other plugs of course can be used to accommodate power outlet configurations used elsewhere in the world.

Illustratively the power brick may provide output at 19 VDC 5 at a maximum of about 3.42 A and have a barrel type plug with positive voltage on tip and ground on ring . Other styles of power bricks to provide for other voltage requirements lower voltage tolerances and higher or lower anticipated current requirements are known in the art.

An embodiment of the tablet PC is illustrated in . As shown the tablet PC may have a thin and light design targeted to the healthcare vertical market segment and tailored to predicted usage models primarily by nurses and secondarily by doctors. Key system design features might include a rugged rounded professional appearance and a sealed chassis resistant to bio fluids and germ growth. The chassis should be constructed in a manner permitting it to withstand cleaning using anti bacterial reagents. It is also desirable to provide an ergonomic layout with carry handle and peripheral positioning.

When used to provide a table style PC for use in hospitals or a clinical environment the chassis may be designed to provide for the integration of technological features such as a stethoscope vital signs monitoring equipment temperature blood pressure etc. or other peripherals desired for medical professionals. In one embodiment these devices communicate wirelessly with the tablet PC via Bluetooth 802.11 wireless protocol or other wireless data transmission protocol.

The chassis may comprise the following components illustrated in a front plate frame an electronic assembly for the LCD or other display screen a digitizer not shown a motherboard labeled as an MB assembly and daughter cards not shown . A back plate may include a handle assembly and a heat spreader sink. It may be desirable to provide a back plate that includes a flat plate comprised of a metal that dissipates heat quickly such as magnesium titanium aluminum copper etc. The heat spreader plate may as well be in physical contact with motherboard components that require heat dissipation such as the CPU although such contact may be made via substances such as thermal grease or intermediate layers of heat conductive metal. This permits the back plate of the tablet PC to act as a heat sink thereby avoiding the need for internal fans or other means for heat removal that may compromise the unit s ability to resist penetration by fluids moisture and other contaminants.

In the illustrative embodiment the battery pack may incorporate a cap that provides a mating seal to the handle assembly. A stethoscope or other peripheral may be formed to insert into a void or recessed cavity in the acrylic surface and rest in a cavity sculpted or otherwise formed in the frame. The construction materials of course are merely presented for purposes of illustration those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of metals and plastics may be substituted for any of the chassis components provided that issues with magnetic and electrical shielding for the components and various antennae are accounted for.

To provide a chassis that is well sealed to be water fluid resistant and resistant to cleaning with industrial chemical solvents or other materials the chassis components may be assembled with interposing rubber o ring gaskets or similar gaskets able to provide fluid resistance for each of the seams where chassis components meet.

All seams in a system designed to be fluid resistant should generally be gasketed to prevent liquid penetration into the system. A main gasket that seals the top and bottom subassemblies would typically be provided. This gasket also integrates the hard buttons e.g. power camera shutter barcode RFID scanner etc. to provide sealed button actuation where buttons or a button pad are employed.

In an embodiment of the invention the battery cap contains a rubber diaphragm that forms a compression seal against the handle area. The fasteners preferably use O rings or silicon for sealed assembly.

In order to achieve a high degree of thermal performance the primary components may be cooled by the integrated chassis heatsink. For example the chassis may be made of injection molded magnesium frame or other suitable highly heat conductive material. The frame may then be coupled directly to the CPU MCH and ICH or indirectly via thermal grease or intermediate layers of heat conductive material.

A thermal shield may be implemented over the top of the chassis heatsink to limit the heat transfer rate from the heatsink to the user. In a preferred embodiment of the invention no fans or system vents are provided which maintains sealability of the system.

According to the structure describe above the system is passively cooled. Heat is transferred out of the system via conduction natural convection and radiation. An insulating shield may be applied to the back of the display screen for example an LCD to maintain its required ambient temperature and provide a more uniform temperature profile across the surface of the display.

As previously mentioned the device will ordinarily include a display such as an LCD TFT or other light weight portable display. The illustrative system uses an AND Displays 10.4 inch color TFT LCD Module model ANDpSi104EA5S HB. This display supports XGA 1024 H 768 V screen resolution and 262K RGB 6 bits data driver or 16.7M RGB 8 bits data driver color depths. The input signals are LVDS interface compatible and it uses a single side firing CCFL backlight.

Power consumption is 3.7 W typical using standard SMPTE test pattern when running at full intensity of 180 nits cd m2 . Power consumption at 60 nits is 2.87 W. The LCD display a digitizer and motherboard may be mated as a single assembly and shock mounted to the chassis. The system may also include a backlight inverter see .

An embodiment of the system includes a DB 15 connector for VGA external display connection but will ordinarily be unused as VGA connectors are not sealable. The connector is typically not stuffed on motherboards that are assembled into a chassis but users requiring external video may desire a tablet PC that offers this feature.

The system may also incorporate a digitizer see . In the illustrative embodiment the digitizer is a Wacom SU 001 A 10.4 diagonal electromagnetic inductive digitizer that underlaps the LCD. This digitizer has a true resolution accuracy of 0.001 mm 2540 dots inch and may report up to 133 points second during stylus motion.

The system may also be equipped with a stylus to permit data entry directly into the device via the digitizer. In the illustrative embodiment the stylus is passive. A suitable stylus device includes the Wacom Penabled Tablet PC Slim Pen model MP200 00 that is 5.5 mm in diameter. The pen can report 256 different levels of pressure when the stylus is pressed against the acrylic LCD protector. The stylus can be sensed at distances between 5 mm and 14 mm away from the digitizer board this includes the thickness of the LCD panel air gap and a protective acrylic cover . The system may accommodate the stylus in a recessed caddy area as shown in .

Tablet PC also refers to a computer such as a personal computer or a mobile computer incorporating various convenient and intuitive aspects of pencil and paper into a user s interaction with the computer. The term computer may include at least one central processing unit or CPU processor connected to a host bus. The CPU may be any of various types including an x86 processor e.g. a Pentium class a PowerPC processor a CPU from the SPARC family of RISC processors as well as others. The computer system may also include various memory mediums typically including RAM and referred to as main memory. The main memory may store one or more programs implementing the present invention. The main memory may also store operating system software as well as other software for operation of the computer system. The term mobile computer as used herein means any computer intended to move location while maintaining functionality. Mobile computers can include for example laptop computers sub notebooks personal digital assistants portable data terminals tablet PCs and even smartphones.

To facilitate data and software storage the system may contain at least one mass storage device such as an integrated hard disk drive HDD . Illustratively the HDD may be a Toshiba 20 Gigabyte 1.8 inch diameter drive model MK2008GAL. This HDD uses PATA as the interface to the baseboard. There is typically provided a PATA connector directly on the on the baseboard that may be used for a ribbon cable connection to the CE style connector on the HDD. This drive is 5.0 mm thick making it suitable for use in a portable device such as a tablet PC.

The illustrative embodiment of the tablet PC may include a wireless LAN subsystem. This may consist of a MiniPCI connector on the motherboard with a Wi Fi card installed. The commercially available Intel PRO Wireless 2915 ABG is suitable for use in the illustrative embodiment. It supports the IEEE industry standards 802.11a b and g.

Certain peripheral devices may be connected to the tablet PC via wireless LAN or Bluetooth technology. The present device may therefore also incorporate a Bluetooth controller such as the Taiyo Yuden EYSFCCSXX module to provide Bluetooth capability for the system. This device incorporates the CSR Cambridge Silicon Radio Bluecore 4 radio chip operating in the 2.4 GHz band. The module implements Bluetooth 2.0 specifications and includes AFH advanced frequency hopping and EDR enhanced data rate functions. The module interfaces to the system using one of the USB ports available via the ICH.

The Taiyo Yuden EYSFCCSXX module also supports WiFi coexistence Phase 2 capability. This reduces the interference between the Bluetooth and the WiFi radios when they are operating simultaneously. The two modules have a communication channel that they use to inform one another about when they are transmitting and what WiFi channel is being used. The Bluetooth module attempts to choose a different channel in the 2.4 GHz band which does not conflict with the WiFi channel in use determined by access point association .

The WMTS subsystem may also include a dual stuffing option connector layout on the motherboard. The motherboard therefore may contain contacts pads for both MiniPCI and MiniCard aka Mini PCI Express socket connectors. These pads are designed to use substantially the same physical volume inside the system.

An OEM employing this feature would determine at manufacturing time which connector to solder to the motherboard since most compact chassis layouts will permit only one can be used at a time. Then the OEM may insert the appropriate form factor WMTS card into the system before sealing the chassis.

In instances where the tablet PC user will benefit from having an RIFD reader incorporated into the device a suitable hardware solution may include the Texas Instruments 7961 RFID reader chip and companion MSP430 microcontroller. This device may be connected via an RS 232 interface at TTL levels i.e. 5VDC and Ground vs. the more conventional 12VDC and 12VDC to the COM2 port of the Super IO. This T.I. chip supports RFID protocols ISO 15693 ISO 14443 and T.I. s Tag It .

The RFID reader is a relatively low power device and has a short reading range on the order of 4 to 5 centimeters. Its antenna should be positioned as far away from any metal as reasonably possible to read effectively. As a result the user should position the RFID tagged object near the antenna location for scanning.

An audio subsystem may be incorporated into the device to provide sound output. One suitable device is based on a Realtek ALC202 codec which is compliant with the AC 97 specifications. The system may also contain an internal power amplifier to more effectively drive the internal speaker. Exemplary of such amplifiers is the LM4960SQ. A single mono speaker a custom designed piezo electric transducer can provide rudimentary audio output. The transducer may be mounted to the back of the display screen protector in the area between the medical peripheral slot stethoscope and the handle cutout. If higher quality audio output is desired a Bluetooth headset may be used to avoid the need to add I O ports to the chassis. For that same reason the illustrative embodiment employs a microphone input via a Bluetooth headset when sound is desired.

In order to avoid increased risk of penetration by liquids and contaminants the tablet PC will generally not include externally accessible audio I O jacks as such jacks would create difficulties in maintaining the sealed nature of the system. If for any reason the end user requires external audio jacking a USB audio device e.g. Creative SoundBlaster Audigy 2 NX may be installed into one of the free USB ports in the dock.

The system integrates a number of buttons and indicators the functions and features of which are illustrated in . Each button is assigned a button number which refers to the button ID assigned by the KSC. This number may be used by the KSC to report button presses to an ACPI to HID mapper driver. This driver may then translates the button press into an HID code for further processing. The system may include soft buttons. A soft button is one managed by the Synaptics Touch Module STM there is no tactile feedback from these capacitive buttons. A hard button is a physical momentary switch that includes tactile feedback. A virtual button does not have a user accessible physical existence it is only a software controllable abstraction of a GPIO signal that can be driven by the KSC.

The STM refers to the Synaptics Mobile Touch Module a commercially available product which may be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiment of the invention. Other button handling solutions will be recognized by those skilled in the art and are contemplated by the present invention. The STM may contain both capacitive buttons and LEDs integrated into a single package. The STM interfaces to the KSC using a MEP protocol defined by the manufacturer.

The illustrative device will generally include a power button that is used to turn the system on and off and also to put a running system into sleep or hibernate modes per Windows Control Panel configuration settings when a Windows O S is used . The KSC monitors the user press of a physical button and sends onward the appropriate signal to the power and voltage regulation circuitry. In addition the KSC monitors the CPU state as represented by status pins on the ICH and may reflect the appropriate status condition on a power LED.

The applet may respond to the HID code by instructing the KSC to power up the camera and RFID readers turn on the white illumination LED and then via USB instruct the camera to grab image frames for barcode analysis and decoding. Simultaneously via an RS 232 interface the RFID reader may be instructed to begin searching for nearby RFID tags. When either one of the barcode decode or RFID scanning functions returns a successful result the applet may instruct the KSC to turn off the illumination LED power down the camera and the RFID reader.

Synaptics Touch Module STM soft buttons may be used for various system management functions. The STM can contain an embedded microcontroller that interfaces to the KSC using a MEP Modular Embedded Protocol interface. When the STM reports a button press to the KSC the KSC sends an SCI interrupt signal to the ACPI framework. This is delivered to the ACPI to HID Mapper driver which translates it into the appropriate HID button code. An applet responds to the HID code by performing the appropriate function and in some cases instructing the KSC to turn on or off specific LEDs by forwarding the command to the STM. In one embodiment of the invention wireless activity status LEDs for either or both WiFi and Bluetooth are driven to the STM directly by the wireless card s rather than via the KSC. A performance advantage may be gained in this manner.

For security a device such as the Infineon SLB9635TT TPM may be used to store credentials securely on the notebook. This device is packaged in a 28 pin TSSOP package and connects to the ICH via the Low Pin Count LPC bus. It is compliant with TPM 1.2 specifications.

The tablet PC user will typically desire a dock for the tablet PC. The device may be inserted into the dock to recharge the batteries and to add additional functionality to the device via additional I O ports external graphics ports etc. An embodiment of the dock is illustrated in . The dock is preferably configured to house the tablet PC in a manner that allows it to stand upright and still have the screen be completely viewable. It might include battery charging contacts for the tablet as well as a charging cavity for a spare battery. LED indicators can be provided to communicate charging status.

The dock may contain a USB hub presently USB 2.0 is the most common solution . USB functionality may be implemented with a device such as the Philips ISP 1520 USB controller chip in an LQFP64 package. The hub chip has 1 upstream port goes to the docking connector and 4 downstream ports. Of the 4 downstream ports 3 of them are exposed as external USB type B sockets. The final downstream port connects to the Ethernet chip. The hub supports USB2.0 data transfer at high speed 480 Mb s and at legacy USB 1.1 full speed 12 Mb s and low speed 1.5 Mb s rates.

The dock may also contain an Ethernet IEEE 802.3 interface. This might be implemented with the Asix AX88772LF chip in a LQFP128 package The Ethernet chip desirably contains both MAC and PHY in a single package and supports USB2.0 and 802.3 operation at 100 Mb s and 10 Mb s. The Ethernet interface may be available on the dock via an external RJ45 socket. An docking connector in the figures shown as a flush mounted injection molded port provides power and USB connectivity between the tablet PC and the dock. The dock will generally also include necessary A C power components and cabling.

An illustrative embodiment of the tablet PC includes at least one peripheral data acquisition device for use by healthcare professionals. Such a device might include a Bluetooth enabled stethoscope as shown in for use by a clinician to examine heart and lung sounds of patients. The stethoscope may include a rechargeable battery or non rechargeable battery and be capable of transmitting audio output directly to a headset worn by the user typically the headset will also be Bluetooth enabled . Alternatively the stethoscope may transmit to the tablet PC and the tablet PC retransmit the audio output to a headset worn by the user or play the sound via the tablet s internal audio system and speaker.

The stethoscope may include numerous buttons and indicators to permit the user to change the audio output device set the type of measurement being taken and perform basic functions such as turn the device on and off . The stethoscope may also transmit information to the tablet PC relating to battery level include audio filters to permit more accurate audio representation of a patient s heartbeat lung function etc. or include other functions desired by the healthcare professional.

There are instances where a computer such as a tablet PC is moved to multiple locations for information retrieval and each location has one or more peripherals from which the tablet PC must retrieve information. One scenario is a tablet PC used in a hospital where there are multiple patient rooms locations and multiple peripheral devices heart rate monitor blood pressure monitor stethoscope blood oxygen level monitor etc. in each room. A user such as a nurse enters must collect information from the peripherals for the patient in each room. In a scenario where the peripherals are wireless communication e.g. connection and pairing with the peripherals associated with each patient can be complex and time consuming. Using an example of Bluetooth enable wireless peripherals and user computer the user would have to send a general inquiry review a list of available Bluetooth enabled device which could include all devices within wireless range of the user computer whether hospital owned or not and then identify and select the appropriate devices needed to collect information from the patient. Further the user will need to know security codes for some or all of the devices.

The present invention enables simplification of this process by storing communication information such as connection and pairing information on a storage device. Communication information is stored for each wireless peripheral within the location from which a user may want to collect information. For example in a hospital room having a Bluetooth enabled heart rate monitor blood pressure monitor stethoscope and blood oxygen level monitor connection and pairing information for each device is stored to a storage device e.g. an RFID tag that is placed in the hospital room. Upon entering the room to collect patient information the nurse need only initiate software on her computer that reads the storage device e.g. via an RFID reader and connects and pairs with all of the devices as available or allows the nurse to easily connect and pair with each device in turn to collect the needed information.

An embodiment of the invention contemplates a user such as a hospital administrator storing the communication information for appropriate wireless peripheral devices for each location such as a hospital room. For Bluetooth enabled devices the administrator could obtain connection information via inquiry or device documentation and would likely obtain pairing information from device documentation. According to an embodiment of the invention where the storage device is location specific and preferably housed in or near the location the stored communication information would only have to be revised if a wireless peripheral was added or changed.

In another embodiment of the invention where the storage device is patient specific such as one that is included in a patient s identification bracelet a user such as a hospital administrator would have to determine the wireless peripherals to be used for that patient for example by determining the patient s room and then store the information on a storage device on a patient by patient basis.

As stated above an embodiment of the present invention uses a storage device such as an RFID tag to store communication information including connection and pairing information for one or more compatible wireless peripherals. Pairing information can include for each peripheral device the address of the device the class of the device the device name and a passkey for the device. Connection information can include for each peripheral device the address of the device the class of the device the device name service classes of any services that the device supports e.g. A2DP Service SerialService and the names of any services that the device supports. Therefore in an embodiment of the invention the information stored in the storage device includes for each peripheral in a location the address of the device the class of the device the device name its passkey service classes of any services that the device supports e.g. A2DP Service SerialService and the names of any services that the device supports.

Peripheral as used herein broadly refers to devices that can be added to a host computer in order to expand its capabilities. Peripheral devices are commonly optional in nature. The present invention contemplates peripherals to include any device that can provide information to a computer or enhance its functionality.

The present invention will hereinafter be discussed with respect to Bluetooth enabled devices. It is to be understood however that any suitable wireless communication protocol can be used and is contemplated by the present invention and may require alternative communication connection and pairing information and or procedures. A Bluetooth device such as a computer playing the role of the master can presently communicate with multiple devices playing the role of the slave . At any given time data can be transferred between the master and 1 slave but the master can switch rapidly from slave to slave in a round robin fashion. The present invention contemplates such sequential transmittion from the master to one or more slaves as well as simultaneous transmission from the master to multiple slaves.

An embodiment of the present invention performs two processes as illustrated in . The first process Process obtains and stores communication information for all wireless devices that can be or are intended to be connected to the computer in a particular location. The term location as used herein to describe the computer and the peripheral that are communicating wirelessly broadly refers to any defined area such as a room or broadcast range for a wireless device. The connection and pairing information is read or otherwise obtained in Step and is then stored on a readable medium or storage device in Step such as an RFID tag located in or near the location.

In Process of a device such as a computer reads the communication information from the storage device for the predetermined wireless devices. The communication information allows the device to communicate with wireless devices. In the embodiment illustrated in the devices are Bluetooth enabled and the readable medium is an RFID tag. The communication information necessary for a Bluetooth enabled device is set forth above. As an alternative to using a storage device such as an RFID tag the communication information can be broadcast by a device located within the area. After reading the communication information the computer can be connected automatically or manually i.e. via user initiation to the wireless devices whose information was stored on the readable medium.

Once a connection has been made the computer determines which services are available for that device. In an alternate embodiment of the invention the storage can be located outside of the area or location of the peripherals for example at a location so that communication information can be retrieved prior to entering the location.

The term services as used herein refers to the profiles that a particular Bluetooth device can support. Bluetooth profiles are developed to describe how implementations of user models are to be accomplished. The user models describe a number of user scenarios where Bluetooth performs the radio transmission. A profile can be described as a vertical slice through the Bluetooth protocol stack. It defines options in each protocol that are mandatory for the profile. It also defines parameter ranges for each protocol. Profiles are used to decrease the risk of interoperability problems between different manufacturers products. Exemplary services available in an embodiment of the present invention would include the A2DP Profile and the Serial Port Profile.

The information needed for wireless connection and pairing for a Bluetooth enabled device can be obtained from each device s Bluetooth stack. A Bluetooth stack is software that allows Bluetooth devices to be recognized and used. A stack can also refer to software that resides on Bluetooth devices and controls Bluetooth communication from the hardware level. Other wireless communication devices may use other stacks or similar software to facilitate connection and pairing.

In an embodiment of the invention where connection and information retrieval is manually initiated by the care giver after a wireless connection has been established a list of available wireless devices can be displayed to the care giver and the care giver may select one or more of the devices from which to retrieve information. For example if the computer has connected to a Bluetooth enabled wireless blood pressure monitor the care giver may select that device and use the computer retrieve information regarding the patient s blood pressure. After retrieving information from the blood pressure monitor the care giver may select one or more additional wireless devices from which to retrieve information such as a pulse monitor or a stethoscope.

After the care giver has retrieved the information that he needs the mobile computer can be disconnected from the wireless devices manually or automatically.

