---

title: Method and network for providing service blending to a subscriber
abstract: A method and communication network for providing a subscriber with a blend of services of the communication network delivered to the subscriber through a telephone and services delivered to the subscriber through a TV delivery system in communication with the network. Upon receipt of a message from a calling party, a service broker function may be configured to execute service package information associated with services of the TV delivery system subscription to include obtaining and delivering caller ID information of the calling party. The service broker function may be configured to alter the message request to generate a modified message request in respect to information affecting alerting of the subscriber's phone. The modified message is sent to the subscriber's phone so that, while information of the calling party is displayed on the TV delivery system, alerting of the phone is modified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07693270&OS=07693270&RS=07693270
owner: Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.
number: 07693270
owner_city: Murray Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060221
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims domestic priority benefits under 35 U.S.C. 120 to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 300 418 to Markus A. Hofmann et al. filed Dec. 15 2005 and entitled Method and Network for Providing Service Blending to a Subscriber . The entire contents of the co pending 418 application are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention in general relate to a communication network and method of providing a subscriber with a blend of services of the communication network delivered to the subscriber through a telephone and services delivered to the subscriber through a TV delivery system in communication with the network and to a method of processing an incoming call to the subscriber.

The Internet Protocol IP Multi Media Subsystem IMS is an IP multimedia and telephony core network defined by the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and 3GPP2 standards and organizations based on Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Internet protocols. A 3GPP IMS network is access independent as it supports IP to IP session over wire line IP 802.11 802.15 CDMA packet data along with GSM EDGE UMTS and other packet data applications.

The 3GPP IMS services architecture is a unified architecture that supports a wide range of services enabled by the flexibility of Session Initiation Protocol SIP . SIP is a signalling protocol for Internet conferencing telephony event notification and instant messaging. SIP was developed within the IETF Multiparty Multimedia Session Control working group. SIP can also invite participants to already existing sessions such as multicast conferences. Media can be added to and removed from an existing session. SIP transparently supports name mapping and redirection services which supports personal mobility users can maintain a single externally visible identifier regardless of their network location.

There is a desire to leverage investment in the IMS service infrastructure and to provide new service offerings by providing blended services to a subscriber of services of different platforms such as a subscriber to a communication network and a TV delivery system. For example service providers may desire to be able to provide blended services e.g. phone multicast television video etc. to a subscriber of a 3GPP IMS network and another platform or service infrastructure such an Internet Protocol Television IPTV . IPTV services typically include the ability to enable a user viewer to display caller ID information instant messages e mail or Short Message Service SMS on the TV.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a method and communication network for providing a subscriber with a blend of services of the communication network delivered to the subscriber through a telephone and services delivered to the subscriber through a TV delivery system in communication with the network. Upon receipt of a message from a calling party a service broker function may be configured to execute service package information associated with services of the TV delivery system subscription to include obtaining and delivering caller ID information of the calling party. The service broker function may be configured to alter the message request to generate a modified message request in respect to information affecting alerting of the subscriber s phone. The modified message is sent to the subscriber s phone so that while information of the calling party is displayed on the TV delivery system alerting of the phone is modified.

Another example embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method of processing an incoming call to a subscriber of one or more services of a communication network for a phone of the subscriber and one or more services of a TV delivery system in communication with the network. In the method a message request is received from a calling party which corresponds to the incoming call to the subscriber s phone. The call may be suspended in the network for a given duration so that ringing of the subscriber s phone due to the incoming call is suppressed. Caller identification information may be displayed on a display of the TV delivery system to enable the subscriber to accept or reject the call.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments service delivery architectures such as an IMS services architecture of a communication network and another platform services architecture such as the content streaming architecture of a TV delivery system such as an IPTV system may be utilized in order to provide blended services to a subscriber. In another example embodiment these service delivery architectures May be configured so as to process an incoming call to a subscriber of both the communication network and TV delivery system.

As shown in the IMS services architecture of a communication network such as a 3GPP IMS core network can support multiple application servers providing traditional telephony services and non telephony services such as instant messaging push to talk video streaming multimedia messaging etc. The services architecture is a collection of logical functions which can be divided into three layers a Transport and Endpoint Layer a Session Control Layer and an Application Server Layer .

The transport and endpoint layer initiates and terminates SIP signaling to set up sessions and provide bearer services such as conversion of voice from analog or digital formats to IP packets using Realtime Transport Protocol RTP . This layer provides the media gateways for converting the Voice of internet Protocol VoIP bearer streams to PSTN TDM format. The media server provides many media related services including conferencing playing announcements collecting in band signaling tones speech recognition speech synthesis etc

The media server resources are shared across all applications. Consequently each application that requires playing announcements or collecting digits for example can use a common server. These applications include voicemail advanced interactive VoiceXML VXML services among others. The media servers can also support non telephony functions such as replicating media for push to talk PTT service. By using a common pool of media servers across multiple services service providers do not have to forecast and engineer media resources for each application.

The session control layer contains the Call Session Control Function CSCF which provides the registration of the endpoints and routing of the SIP signaling messages to the appropriate application server. The CSCF is thus a proxy server which provides session control for subscribers accessing services within the IMS. The CSCF may also be referred to as a SIP Server.

The CSCF interworks with the transport and endpoint layer to guarantee Quality of Service QoS across all services. The session control layer may communicate with a user database such as a Home Subscriber Server HSS database that maintains the unique service profile for each end user. HSS is accessible by the session control layer and also the application server layer dotted line for user profile data and or subscribed to services for example. The end user s service profile stores all of the user service information and preferences in a central location. This includes an end user s current registration information i.e. IP address roaming information telephony services i.e. call forwarding information instant messaging service information i.e. buddies list voice mail box options i.e. greetings etc. By centralizing this information applications can share information to create unified personal directories multi client type presence information and blended services. This centralized arrangement also greatly simplifies the administration of user data and insures consistent views of active subscribers across all services.

The session control layer also includes a Media Gateway Control Function MGCF which interworks the SIP signaling with the signaling used by the media gateway i.e. H.248 . The MGCF manages the distribution of sessions across multiple media gateways. A Media Server Function Control MSFC provides a similar function for the media servers.

The application server layer contains the application servers which provide the end user service logic. The application server layer may also communicate with HSS to access user profile data. Example serves include parlay and SIP application servers. The IMS architecture and SIP signaling is flexible so as to support a variety of telephony and non telephony application servers. For example SIP standards have been developed for telephony services and instant messenger IM services.

Extensions to the IMS architecture to support a rich set of services are desired. Currently there are many VoIP endpoints that do not support SIP signaling. For example IP PBXs typically use H.323. Integrated Access Devices IADs that support VoIP over DSL often use MGCP. Consequently to support these popular endpoints in an IMS network it is desirable to interwork non SIP signaling to SIP. New border signaling gateways have been proposed to provide this interworking.

Customers desire real time communications services to work together in a seamless fashion. This allows service providers to bundle and interwork services to provide new blended capabilities. For example end users in a lengthy IM session may wish to spawn a voice session without the bother of looking up phone numbers and re establishing a separate voice session. When an end user is engaged in a PTT session the incoming voice calls should invoke call waiting services.

Although the standard IMS service architecture can simultaneously support many different real time communication applications additional service interworking or service brokering may be needed to provide these blended services. To allow more expansive feature interaction management the IMS standards define a function in the sub layer of the services layer between call connection control and the services layer proper for feature interaction management. This function is termed Service Coordination and Interaction Manager SCIM . The precise operation and capabilities of the SCIM are not defined in the standards nor are the means by which it would be configured.

As a result and in accordance with the exemplary embodiments the example IMS services architecture may include a service capabilities interaction manager SCIM referred to herein as a service broker or service broker function that can share application state and status information between applications. The service broker resides at the session control layer and has corresponding interfaces into the interworking applications. The service broker thus provides critical functionality such as integrating multiple applications into meaningful service offerings allowing participating applications to be unaware of each other and providing programmability with an application programming interface API for combining services.

For a more detailed description of the internal make up and functionality of the service broker reference may be made to co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 231 166 to Kocan et al. filed Sep. 20 2005 and entitled ENHANCED SYSTEM FOR CONTROLLING SERVICE INTERACTION AND FOR PROVIDING BLENDING OF SERVICES the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

As the IMS architecture is equally suitable for wireless wireline and converged networks the service broker is fully consistent with this aspect of the IMS architecture as it is inherently endpoint access neutral. The service broker manages the integration and coordination of services to control service interaction and or to provide enriched end user experiences. Further service broker accommodates users who can span different endpoints such as analog softphones or wireless phones and can customize service presentation based on the user s endpoint capabilities such as voice only voice data or voice data multimedia. The service broker can save and use variable user data and session context data to achieve multi session awareness and manage simultaneous and sequential context sensitive interactions.

Thus in addition to the service blending capability the service broker can be used to share network services such as media servers across multiple applications by intercepting their commands and adapting them to a selected media server command interface although other components in the IMS architecture could provide such sharing. Further the service broker may in conjunction with other systems in the maintenance infrastructure bring about the consolidation of information for billing and operations support systems and an abstracted view to the other elements in the communication network.

SIP is based on an HTTP like request response transaction model. Each transaction consists of a request that invokes a particular method or function on the server and at least one response. In an example a transaction may begin with Alice s softphone a softphone is a multi media application that works in association with VoIP technology enabling the user to make calls direct from their PC or laptop sending a message request SIP INVITE addressed to Bob s uniform resource identifier URI . An INVITE request message SIP INVITE is an example of a SIP method that specifies the action that the requester Alice wants the server Bob to take.

The SIP INVITE contains a number of header fields which are named attributes that provide additional information about a message. The header fields present in a SIP INVITE may include at least a unique identifier for the call the destination address Alice s address and information about the type of session that Alice wishes to establish with Bob.

Accordingly the message request may be directly received by a service broker function in the communication network. In an example the service broker in the session control layer may receive the message request. In another example a server in the communication network receives the message request from the calling party and directs the message request to a service broker function in the 3GPP IMS network. For example this may be a SIP proxy server such as the CSCF in .

As the subscriber has subscribed to a blended service including the display of caller ID service on the TV delivery system the service broker function in addition to executing service package information based on the message request to provide caller ID information to the TV delivery system alters or modifies information in the message request and sends either directly or via a proxy server the modified message request to a phone of the subscriber so that alerting of the subscriber s phone is modified while caller ID information of the calling party is displayed on the subscriber s TV delivery system. If the message request is embodied as a SIP INVITE the service broker function has the ability to modify an Alert Info header field in the SIP INVITE header so as to change the alerting ringing tones visual indication or otherwise of the subscriber s phone. In an example where the service broker function sets the Alert Info header field to 0 alerting on the subscriber s phone can be suppressed while the caller ID information is being displayed on the subscriber s TV delivery system so as not to interfere with the sound of a program being viewed by the subscriber.

Accordingly the service broker function such as service broker serves as a SCIM in the communications network and provides the capability to blend services utilizing other service delivery architectures such as that of a TV delivery system. As the service broker is a programmable element and has an API two example scenarios described with respect to the corresponding relationships between different service architectures in order to convey the range of capabilities of the service broker and its potential to enrich end user experience.

As discussed above in the session control layer of IMS includes a service broker in communication with server which may be a SIP server CSCF or other proxy server for example. The service broker is configured to execute an IPTV service package based on the services the subscriber has subscribed to as reflected in a subscriber database . The subscriber database may be a Home Subscriber Server HSS which may be several physical databases. This depends on the number of subscribers and the extent of the services which need to be supported. The HSS holds variables and identities for the support establishment and maintenance of calls and sessions made by subscribers. The server and or service broker may have interfaces to endpoints such as the subscriber s handset which may be a WiFi GSM handset registered with the IMS and the subscriber s cell phone .

The content streaming architecture on the IPTV side includes an IPTV server which may process TV stream data for display at IPTV and communicates with a subscriber input device not shown such as a remote control or browser interface to process TV control data. The IPTV system may or may not support an interface between the IPTV server and the service broker for accepting caller ID data for display on IPTV .

Accordingly an overview of the relationships between architectures having been explained two scenarios are described to illustrate the range of capabilities of the service broker and its potential to enrich end user experience. These scenarios involve two subscribers Alice and Bob. Alice has subscribed to an offer that provides caller ID with optional Silent Alerting with her IPTV service. Bob subscribes to VoIP but has an independent IPTV delivery system that uses a Set Top Box that is able to support a window like environment. Bob subscribes to an offer that provides caller ID with optional Silent Alerting and the ability to control call disposition from the TV remote control device.

In this scenario Alice s IPTV delivery system supports an interface to the communication system or network e.g. IMS that accepts caller ID and displays it on the user s Alice s TV. Furthermore the IPTV Set Top Box not shown in supports an application such as a browser capability see browser window whereby the user can click on a link as desired. The IMS includes the service broker which is able to provide originating and terminating service brokering. The service broker provides the caller ID information to an IPTV application at IPTV server when terminating calls to Alice s home phone which supports SIP and may also be referred to as a SIP phone and when terminating calls to Alice s WiFi GSM handset mobile phone i.e. cell phone when it is registered in the IMS . The service broker is able to modify or suppress normal alerting e.g. ringing in these phones by modifying the Alert Info header field in the SIP INVITE that is sent to the terminating devices. The scenario is described in more detail below with reference to . As an alternative to completely suppressing alerting the Alert Info header may be set to result in a ping or other less intrusive alert.

Alice is relaxing and watching TV. Calls come in but Alice is able to see who the calls are from on the TV set since she subscribes to a caller ID service. She is also able to activate a modified alerting feature which in this example may be called Silent Alerting which prevents her phone s from alerting. She can even see those who are trying to reach her on her GSM WiFi cell phone since when she is at home it is registered in the IMS .

Alice turns on her IPTV and selects a program from the IPTV program guide provided via the STB not shown in . A call comes into the IMS for Alice s home phone . Since Alice is subscribed to a blended service the server directs the SIP INVITE message to the service broker .

If not cached the service broker retrieves Alice s terminating service package information from subscriber database such as an HSS and begins to execute the IPTV service package . If the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE message as it could be for a call coming in from the PSTN the service broker may query a calling name web server nor shown to obtain this information.

The service broker sends the SIP INVITE message to Alice s home phone via the server and sends the calling name information caller ID information to the IPTV application at IPTV server on its proscribed interface. Alternatively if no server is present the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly. In an example and assuming the interface allows additional text the service broker may include an invitation to activate Silent Alerting.

The phone rings and Alice simultaneously sees the caller ID on a display of the IPTV along with the invitation to activate Silent Alerting. Since the program is very interesting and the call not urgent Alice allows the phone to ring until it is diverted to voice mail. Since the ringing was distracting she brings up her on screen browser window and clicks the link in her favorites to activate Silent Alerting. It should be noted that the invitation is not required as Silent Alerting could also have been set prior to the beginning of the program or as a default option.

Clicking the link causes an HTTP request to be sent to the service broker which sends a web page where Alice can select a deactivation time or let a default deactivation such as 2 hours be in effect. Alice selects her desired deactivation time. A send click on the window sends the HTTP request with this information to the service broker . The service broker inputs appropriate information into Alice s user data on the subscriber database to be used for future calls.

Another call comes into the IMS for Alice s home phone and the server directs the SIP INVITE message to the service broker . The service broker retrieves Alice s terminating service package information from subscriber database which now indicates that Silent Alerting is active and begins to execute the service package . If the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE message the service broker queries a calling name web server to obtain this information.

Since Silent Alerting is active the service broker sets the Alert Info in the SIP INVITE message to 0 to alter the field. Then the service broker sends the modified SIP INVITE message to Alice s home phone via the server or directly if no server present and sends the caller ID information to the IPTV application at server on its proscribed interface.

Alice sees the caller ID on the IPTV but the phone does not ring since Alice s phone received the modified SIP INVITE and interprets the Alert Info set to 0 as indicating no alerting. The call is urgent so Alice picks up the phone and answers the call.

Another call comes into the IMS for Alice but this time it is for her mobile GSM WiFi phone . The call came to the IMS since Alice is at home with her mobile phone and it had registered with the IMS. The server directs the SIP INVITE message to the service broker . Alternatively if no server is present the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly.

As previously described the service broker retrieves Alice s terminating service package information from the subscriber database which now indicates that Silent Alerting is active and begins to execute the service package . As previously discussed if the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE the service broker may query a calling name web server to obtain this information.

Since Silent Alerting is active the service broker sets the Alert Info in the header field of the SIP INVITE to 0 . Then the service broker sends the modified SIP INVITE to Alice s mobile phone via the server and sends the caller ID information to the IPTV application of server on its proscribed interface. Assuming the interface allows additional text the service broker includes an indication that it is Alice s mobile phone that is being called.

Alice sees the caller ID on the IPTV along with the indication that it is Alice s mobile phone that is being called but the phone does not ring since the phone received the modified SIP INVITE and interprets the Alert Info set to 0 as indicating no alerting. The call is urgent so Alice picks up the mobile phone and answers the call. For some GSM WiFi roaming architectures and in another example the home phone may also receive the modified SIP INVITE message when the mobile is registered in the IMS and present at home.

Scenario 1 thus illustrates a blended service of TV caller ID with modified alerting silent alerting which takes advantage of the SIP Alert info header. In this example scenario the SIP VoIP is designed to support and correctly interpret the Alert Info setting and the service broker alters the Alert Info header based on the information it obtains from the user over its HTTP interface. A further feature of this blended service is to provide caller ID and silent alerting for calls to the mobile phone . This is possible with GSM WiFi Roaming and having the service broker send the indication that the call is for the mobile phone .

As described with regard to both an IMS architecture for communication session services and an IPTV content streaming architecture participated in this blended service. The IP access utilizing DSL is shared by both architectures. The service broker plays the role of the SCIM and serves to meld the two service architectures by sending event data from the IMS to the TV system . The service broker is thus configured to receive a specific activation request from a user and to modify SIP messages based on specific application blending logic including the activation information .

Referring to in this case the TV delivery system does not support an interface to the communication system IMS for caller ID. However a Set Top Box is used that has a window like environment that can run an application client software that is able to set a focus window to receive events from the TV remote control e.g. the events may map to keystroke events . The service broker in the IMS of the network is able to communicate with the client software in the STB and handle incoming SIP INVITE messages depending on TV remote control events. The scenario is described in more detail below with reference to .

Bob is relaxing and watching TV. Calls come in but Bob is able to see who the calls are from on the IPTV set . He is also able to activate a modified alerting feature which in this example may be called Silent Alerting which prevents his phone s from alerting and he is able to either send calls to voice mail or even stop the calls from his TV remote control not shown in .

Bob turns on his IPTV and selects a program from the IP TV program guide provided via the STB . A call comes into the IMS for Bob s home phone . Since Bob is subscribed to a blended service the server directs the SIP INVITE to the service broker . Alternatively the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly. The service broker retrieves Bob s terminating service package information from the subscriber database if not cached and begins to execute the service package . If the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE as it could be for a call coming in from the PSTN the service broker queries a calling name web server to obtain this information.

The service broker sends the SIP INVITE message to Bob s home phone via the server and sends caller ID information to the client software application on Bob s STB . The phone rings and Bob simultaneously sees the caller ID on a display of the IPTV along with clickable via the TV remote control links to reject the call send the call to voice mail and activate Silent Alerting for a given duration.

Since the program is very interesting and the call was not urgent Bob clicks the link to send the call to voice mail. Since the ringing was distracting he also clicks to activate Silent Alerting. Clicking the links caused HTTP requests to be sent to the service broker . The service broker sends the SIP INVITE message to the voice messaging system and then pushes appropriate information into Bob s user data on the subscriber database to be used for future calls.

Another call comes into the IMS for Bob s home phone and the server directs the SIP INVITE message to the service broker . Alternatively the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly. The service broker retrieves Bob s terminating service package information from the subscriber database which now indicates that Silent Alerting is active and begins to execute the service package . If the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE the service broker queries a calling name web server to obtain this information.

Since Silent Alerting is active the service broker sets the Alert Info in the SIP INVITE to 0 . Then the service broker sends the modified SIP INVITE message to Bob s home phone via the server or directly if no server present and sends the caller ID information to the client software application on Bob s STB .

Bob sees the caller ID on the IPTV but the phone does not ring since Bob s phone received the modified SIP INVITE and interprets the Alert Info set to 0 as indicating no alerting. The call is urgent so Bob picks up the phone and answers the call.

In scenario 2 the TV caller ID service allows independence of the IPTV delivery system that is so long as the IPTV client software application can operate in a windows like environment and the STB supports a windows like environment. Added capabilities with this version could be based on the client software picking up the TV remote events and sending HTTP messages to the service broker to affect call treatment. Further more sophisticated capabilities may be possible if the client software on the STB would provide an API so that the software client interacting with the service broker can have more complete information. An example might be indicating what program is being viewed. In such a case a parental alert and control capability such as described for incoming and outgoing calls could be implemented for certain programs.

A third scenario is somewhat similar to scenario 2 but provides the ability for a user subscriber of an network such as an IMS and an IPTV delivery system to actually prevent the initial ringing of an incoming call whether or not the subscriber subscribes to the Silent Alerting feature. In general the user may use his her television remote control to decide what to do with an incoming call. When a call comes in the phone does not immediately ring. This is because the incoming call may be suspended in the network for a given amount of time to allow the user to make a decision. The call suspension would be done automatically as part of a given subscribed to service. For example in IMS the service broker may be configured to suspend the forwarding of the SIP message to the next hop in order to suspend the call.

Instead the user may be first alerted to the incoming call when the caller s name and number is displayed on the user s television screen. In an example a menu may be presented to the user to enable him her to determine or select how to treat the incoming call. In one example the user may choose to ignore the call. In this case the Caller ID information is removed from the display on IPTV and a no answer treatment is applied to the call. Of course the user may desire to answer the call. In this case only then does the phone begin to ring. The Caller ID information may remain on the television display for the duration of the ringing.

Referring again to in this case the TV delivery system does not support an interface to the communication system IMS for caller ID. However the Set Top Box which has a window like environment that can run an application client software to set a focus window to receive events from the TV remote control e.g. the events may map to keystroke events may be used as described in scenario 2. The service broker in the IMS of the network is able to communicate with the client software in the STB and handle incoming SIP INVITE messages depending on TV remote control events. This third scenario is described in more detail below with reference to .

Bob is relaxing and watching TV. Calls come in but Bob is able to see who the calls are from on the IPTV . From his TV remote control not shown in he is able to either send calls to voice mail or choose to answer the incoming call. In this scenario Bob may or may not subscribe to Silent Alerting.

Bob turns on his IPTV and selects a program from the IP TV program guide provided via the STB . A call comes into the IMS for Bob s home phone . Since Bob is subscribed to a blended service the server directs the SIP INVITE message request to the service broker . Alternatively the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly. The service broker retrieves Bob s terminating service package information from the subscriber database if not cached and begins to execute the service package . If the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE as it could be for a call coming in from the PSTN the service broker queries a calling name web server to obtain this information.

The service broker sends the caller ID information to the client software application on Bob s STB . The client software application if designed together with the service package could have an interface to the STB to provide a means for the service package to control the caller ID display on the user s TV screen as well as a means to receive the user s response i.e. to accept or ignore the call . Alternatively the client software application could have a published interface that the service package is designed to accommodate. This may be an interface designed by a party other than the party or vendor who provides service package . For example the IPTV vendor or STB vendor could have designed and developed the software running on the STB .

Bob sees the Caller ID information number address and name displayed on the IPTV along with clickable via the TV remote function buttons to accept the call or send the call to voice mail i.e. ignore the call . Note that at this point Bob s home phone has not yet begun to ring. Rather the call has been suspended in the IMS for a specified duration while Bob makes his decision.

Since the program is very interesting and the call was not urgent Bob clicks a given function button or link to send the call to voice mail. The phone thus never rings. Clicking the function button or link causes an HTTP request to be sent to the service broker . The service broker sends the SIP INVITE message to the voice messaging system and then pushes appropriate information into Bob s user data on the subscriber database to be used for future calls.

Another call comes into the IMS for Bob s home phone and the server directs the SIP INVITE message to the service broker . Alternatively the service broker could be configured to receive this SIP INVITE message directly. The service broker retrieves Bob s terminating service package information from the subscriber database . As before if the calling name is not encapsulated in the SIP INVITE message the service broker queries a calling name web server to obtain this information. The service broker sends the caller ID information to the client software application on Bob s STB .

Bob sees the caller ID on the TV but the phone still has not begun to ring as the call has been suspended for a given duration in the IMS . This time the call is urgent so Bob clicks a function button on his remote control to accept the call. When receiving the HTTP request indicating that Bob wants to accept the call the service broker proxies the SIP INVITE toward Bob s phone via the server . If Bob subscribes to Silent Alerting and Bob has Silent Alerting activated the Service Broker sets the Alert Info in the SIP INVITE to 0 . In other words should Bob elect to accept the call then the silent alerting function as described in and as outlined in scenarios and may be implemented to alter the SIP INVITE message header so as to modify the phone alerting for example.

Once the SIP INVITE message gets to Bob s phone if the Alert Info header is not 0 then at that point the phone will start ringing. The Caller ID information may remain on the television display for the duration of the ringing. Otherwise the phone will not ring. The call is urgent so Bob picks up the phone and answers the call.

Accordingly by suspending the call in the IMS for a given period of time the user who subscribes to a blended service may be able to decide whether or not to receive a call upon only then does the ringing commence or to send the call directly to voice mail. In the latter case the phone never rings. Scenario 3 thus may provide a further option for those who do not subscribe to Silent Alerting. Although scenario 3 has been described with reference to the call suspension with ring suppression described therein could also be applicable to an IPTV delivery system that supports an interface to the communication system or network e.g. IMS which accepts caller ID and displays it on the user s IPTV as shown in . Accordingly scenario 3 is applicable to an IPTV Set Top Box not shown in that supports an application such as a browser capability see browser window whereby the user can click on a link as desired to reject or accept the call. Thus as the interface to the IPTV server may be configured to provide the appropriate call handling options i.e. to accept or ignore the call this feature may also be implemented using the system in .

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as departure from the spirit and scope of the example embodiments of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

