---

title: Electrophotographic image-receiving sheet and image-forming process using the same
abstract: An electrophotographic image-receiving sheet which includes a support, a toner-receiving layer which contains thermoplastic resin. The fixing belt electrophotographic sheet has an optimized separation force at a surface of the electrophotographic image-receiving sheet from the toner-receiving layer. Having a highly improved long-run properties, the fixing belt electrophotographic sheet realizes a stable paper feed without offset, and provides a good quality image with rich photographic features.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07574166&OS=07574166&RS=07574166
owner: FUJIFILM Corporation
number: 07574166
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060206
---
The present invention relates to an electrophotographic image receiving sheet and an image forming process especially to an electrophotographic image receiving sheet with substantially improved long run properties suitable for use in fixing belt electrophotography and to an image forming process which employs the electrophotographic image receiving sheet.

In dry treatment the electrophotography method has quick printing speed and is the printing method currently used for copiers or the output device of a personal computer. This electrophotography method transfers a toner image to an image receiving sheet passes this through a fixing part which is heated and or pressurized for example a fixing roller or a fixing belt and fixes the toner image onto an image receiving sheet. To improve gloss and to approach the appearance of a photograph it has been proposed that this image receiving sheet in addition to a general purpose paper regular paper paper of fine quality or the like may be an image receiving material for electrophotography which has a toner image receiving layer containing a thermoplastic resin on a support Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A Nos. 04 212168 08 211645 or the like . In order to prevent offset when the image receiving material peels away from the aforesaid fixing part in such a toner image receiving layer to prevent cracks in the toner image receiving layer and to improve the quality of the image it has been proposed to add a wax which has a given release effect Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A Nos. 11 52604 11 52605 11 52606 and 11 212292 or the like .

However the amount of releasing agent in the related art is optimized for the fixing roller electrophotography method and the amount required by the image receiving sheet used by the fixing belt electrophotography method does not necessarily correspond. That is in the fixing roller electrophotography method the image receiving sheet separates from the fixing roller immediately after being heated by the fixing roller. Therefore in order to improve the releasing characteristic of the fixing roller from image receiving sheet a large amount of releasing agent was added to the layer comprising the surface of the image receiving sheet which comes in contact with the fixing roller as described in JP A No. 11 212292.

Moreover in the aforementioned fixing belt electrophotography method a surface of the image receiving sheet and the surface of the fixing belt must be in intimate contact while the image receiving sheet is transported on the fixing part. Thus if the releasing characteristic between the fixing belt as a fixing part and the image receiving sheet is high problems arise. This is because in the fixing belt electrophotography method a glossy image is not obtained if the fixing belt and the image receiving sheet are not in contact while being transported in the fixing part. Therefore it is necessary to adjust the releasing characteristic of the fixing belt and image receiving sheet to an extent which brings them into suitable contact while being transported the fixing part and allows them to separate without causing an offset when the image receiving sheet is released from the fixing belt. It is also necessary to optimize the amount of the releasing agent added to the layer forming the surface of the image receiving sheet which comes in contact with the fixing belt in the fixing belt electrophotography method.

The present invention is aimed to solve various problems in the related art and to achieve the following objects. Namely it is a first object of the present invention to provide an electrophotographic image receiving sheet which comprises a toner image receiving layer containing a thermoplastic resin on a support. By using an image receiving sheet with optimized releasing force between the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet on the toner image receiving layer side of the above mentioned support stable paper provision without offset is obtained and an image receiving sheet for fixing belt electrophotography with good brilliance which is rich in photographic feature and provides a good image is achieved.

It is a second object of the present invention to provide a glossy image receiving sheet for fixing belt electrophotography wherein the amount of the releasing agent added to the layer forming the surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet is optimized so that there is no offset to the fixing roller and fixing belt and long run properties are largely improved.

It is a third object of the present invention to provide an image forming process which provides a stable paper feed without offset to the fixing roller and fixing belt and which forms a good image having better brilliance than ever and rich in photographic features even if an oil less apparatus without fixing oil is used.

An electrophotographic image receiving sheet according to the present invention comprises a support and a toner receiving layer which contains a polymer on the support.

The electrophotographic image receiving sheet is utilized for an apparatus for elecrophotography having a fixing belt and a separation force at a surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet from the toner receiving layer is 1 N m to 20 N m when a temperature at a surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet is one of 50 C. and 90 C.

Accordingly long run properties largely is improved a stable paper feed without offset is achieved and a good image with high brilliance and rich photographic features can be obtained.

An image forming process according to the present invention include the step of forming a toner image on an electrophotographic image receiving sheet the step of heating and pressuring a surface of the electrophotgrahic image receiving sheet on which the toner image is formed with a fixing bet and a roller and the step of cooling the surface so as to separate the surface from the fixing belt.

The image forming process of the present invention employs the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention.

Accordingly the separation of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet and toner is prevented and offset of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet and toner component can be prevented even if an oil less apparatus without fixing oil is used. Moreover a stable paper feed can be achieved and a good image with high brilliance and rich photographic features can be obtained.

The electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention requires that the separation force between the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet on a side of the toner image receiving layer seen the support lies within a certain limits. This is because in the process for electrophotography using the fixing belt it is required not only to improve the separation force of surface of the image receiving sheet from a surface of the fixing belt but also to ensure that the surfaces of the fixing belt and electrophotographic image receiving sheet are in intimate contact while the image receiving sheet is transported in the fixing part.

Hereinafter the relation will be described in detail taking the image forming process using the electrophotographic image receiving sheet shown in as an example. However the image forming process of the present invention is not limited to the process shown in .

First in the electrophotographic image receiving sheet with adhering toner toner is melted heated and pressurized by a heating pressurizing part A in which pressurizing is provided and brought in intimate contact with the fixing belt . Thereafter it is cooled in a cooling part B and the image receiving sheet separates from the fixing belt in a separating part C . The surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet are held in intimate contact while the image receiving sheet is transported on the fixing parts A to C .

As the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet are held in intimate contact while the image receiving sheet is transported in the fixing parts A to C the toner adhering to the toner image receiving layer is precisely fixed when the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of image receiving sheet move through the fixing parts A to C without spreading on the image receiving sheet. Also as the toner is pressurized by the fixing belt and cooled and solidified in a state where it is completely embedded in the toner image receiving layer there is no image unevenness. Therefore a glossy flat and smooth toner image can be obtained.

Further in the separating part C the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet become separated away from each other with at least a certain level of separation force. Accordingly offset derived from the adhesion of a portion of the image or a portion of the materials which consist of the image receiving sheet and trouble of paper jam derived from the adhesion of the image receiving sheet itself to the fixing belt are more likely to be prevented.

To satisfy these two points in the electrophotographic image receiving sheet provided with a toner image receiving layer containing a thermoplastic resin on the support of the present invention the separation force at the surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet from the toner receiving layer is 1 N m to 20 N m and preferably 2 N m to 20 N m when a temperature at the surface of the image receiving sheet is 50 C.

The separation force at the electrophotographic image receiving sheet from the toner receiving layer is 1 N m to 20 N m more preferably 1 N m to 18 N m and still more preferably 1 N m to 15 N m when a temperature at the surface of the image receiving sheet is 90 C.

If the separation force is 20 N m or less at 50 C. the image retains good brilliance even when it separates from the fixing belt. As long as the separation force is 1 N m or higher at 90 C. the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet remain in intimate contact without separating away from each other while the image receiving sheet is transported in the fixing part.

First samples are prepared by cutting some of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet and fixing belt to suitable sizes. In the actual fixing belt electrophotography process the surface where the fixing belt contacts the image receiving sheet namely a surface of the fixing belt is brought in contact with the surface of the image receiving sheet which contacts the fixing belt namely the image receiving surface on the toner image receiving layer side of the support. Next the image receiving sheet is heated for 10 seconds to 1 minute so that the fixing belt having each of the temperatures and the image receiving sheet surface becomes 30 C. to 150 C. Then one end the left hand end in of the fixing belt is held and is separated away at a certain velocity of 20 mm to 60 mm per second so that the angle between the fixing belt and the separating direction X is maintained at 90 . The force applied in the separating direction X is the separation force.

In order to adjust the separation force between the surface of the fixing belt and the surface of the image receiving sheet it is also important to select the material of the surface of the fixing belt and the material of the surface of the image receiving sheet.

Hereinafter the materials of the fixing belt and the surface of the fixing belt and the materials of the image receiving sheet and the surface of the image receiving sheet in order to obtain the separation force of the present invention will be described.

Herein it is convenient if the fixing belt used in the image forming apparatus is an endless belt formed from a material such as polyimide electroplated nickel aluminum or the like.

The material for a surface of the fixing belt may be silicone materials or fluorine materials. Specific examples of the materials for the surface of the fixing belt include one or more materials selected from silicone rubber fluorinated rubber silicone resin fluorinated resin and the like. The materials are suitable because the materials are less likely to become adhered to a polymer contained in a surface of the image receiving sheet and are more likely to become separated from the polymer. The materials are hence suitable to have a separation force in a desired range.

Examples of the materials for a surface of the fixing belt include silicone cross linking fluorinated polyether such as silicon rubber polytetrafluoroethyleneperfluoroalkylvinylether copolymer PFA SIEFL a registered trade mark manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. or the like poyltetrafluoroethylene PTFE tetrafluoroethylenehexafluoroethylene propylene copolymer FEP perfluoroalkoxyalkane silicone modified acryl polymer and the like. Of these it is preferred to provide a layer of fluorocarbon siloxane rubber having a uniform thickness on the surface of the fixing belt or provide a layer of silicone rubber having uniform thickness on the surface of the fixing belt and then provide a layer of fluorocarbon siloxane rubber on the surface of the layer of silicone rubber.

It is preferred that the fluorocarbon siloxane rubber has a perfluoroalkyl ether group and or a perfluoroalkyl group in the main chain.

Examples of the fluorocarbon siloxane rubber include A a fluorocarbon polymer having a fluorocarbon siloxane of the following Formula 1 as its main component and containing aliphatic unsaturated groups B an organopolysiloxane and or fluorocarbon siloxane containing two or more SiH groups in one molecule and 1 to 4 times more the molar amount of SiH groups than the amount of aliphatic unsaturated groups in the aforesaid fluorocarbon siloxane rubber C a filler and D an effective amount of catalyst.

The fluorocarbon polymer having A as a component comprises a fluorocarbon siloxane containing a repeating unit represented by the following Formula 1 as its main component and contains aliphatic unsaturated groups.

Herein in the aforesaid Formula 1 Ris a non substituted or substituted monofunctional hydrocarbon group preferably containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms preferably an alkyl group containing 1 to 8 carbon atoms or an alkenyl group containing 2 to 3 carbon atoms and particularly preferably a methyl group. a and e are respectively 0 or 1 b and d are respectively an integer of 1 to 4 and c is an integer of 0 to 8. x is an integer of 1 or more and preferably 10 to 30.

In Component B one example of the organopolysiloxane comprising SiH groups is an organohydrogenpolysiloxane having at least two hydrogen atoms bonded to silicon atoms in the molecule.

In the fluorocarbon siloxane rubber composition used in the present invention when the organocarbon polymer of Component A comprises an aliphatic unsaturated group the aforesaid organohydrogenpolysiloxane may be used as a curing agent. Namely in this case the cured product is formed by an addition reaction between aliphatic unsaturated groups in the fluorocarbon siloxane and hydrogen atoms bonded to silicon atoms in the organohydrogenpolysiloxane.

Examples of these organohydrogenpolysiloxanes are the various organohydrogenpolysiloxanes used in an addition curing silicone rubber composition.

It is generally preferred that the organohydrogenpolysiloxane is blended in such a proportion that the number of SiH groups therein is at least one and particularly 1 to 5 relative to one aliphatic unsaturated hydrocarbon group in the fluorocarbon siloxane of Component A .

It is preferred that in the fluorocarbon containing SiH groups one unit of the Formula 1 or Rin the Formula 1 is a dialkylhydrogensiloxane group the terminal group is a SiH group such as a dialkylhydrogensiloxane group a silyl group or the like. An example of the fluorocarbon includes those represented by the following Formula 3.

The filler which is Component C may be various fillers used in ordinary silicone rubber compositions. Examples are reinforcing fillers such as mist silica precipitated silica carbon powder titanium dioxide aluminum oxide quartz powder talc sericite bentonite or the like fiber fillers such as asbestos glass fiber organic fibers or the like.

Examples of the catalyst which is Component D include those any known as an addition reaction catalyst in the art. Specific examples of the catalyst include chloroplatinic acid alcohol modified chloroplatinic acid complexes of chloroplatinic acid and olefins platinum black or palladium supported on a support such as alumina silica carbon or the like and Group VIII elements of the Periodic Table or compounds thereof such as complexes of rhodium and olefins chlorotris triphenylphosphine rhodium an Wilkinson catalyst rhodium III acetyl acetonate or the like. It is preferred to dissolve these complexes in an alcohol solvent an ether solvent a hydrocarbon solvent or the like.

Various blending agents may be added to the fluorocarbon siloxane rubber composition used in the present invention to the extent that the blending agents do not interfere with the purpose of the present invention which is to improve solvent resistance. For example dispersing agents such as diphenylsilane diol low polymer chain end hydroxyl group blocked dimethylpolysiloxane hexamethyl disilazane heat resistance improvers such as ferrous oxide ferric oxide cerium oxide octyl acid iron or the like and colorants such as pigments or the like may be added as a compounding agent if necessary.

The fixing belt according to the present invention is obtained by covering the surface of a heat resistant resin or metal belt with the aforesaid fluorocarbon siloxane rubber composition and heat and cure it. The composition may be diluted to form a coating solution with a solvent such as m xylene hexafluoride benzotrifluoride or the like. The coating solution is then applied by an ordinary coating method such as spin coating dip coating knife coating or the like. The heat curing temperature and time can be conveniently selected. The heat curing temperature and time can be suitably selected within the ranges of 100 C. to 500 C. and 5 seconds to 5 hours according to a type of the belt a process for manufacturing the belt or the like.

The materials of a surface of the fixing belt are preferably formed on the base material with a thickness of 10 m to 100 m and more preferably 20 m to 50 m. Separation of toners and an electrophotographic image receiving sheet and offsetting of an image receiving sheet and toner components can be prevented by applying the materials onto the base material.

The aforesaid electrophotographic image receiving sheet may for example comprise a toner image receiving layer above a support a back layer if desired as shown in . Other layers suitably chosen as necessary for example a surface protective layer interlayer undercoat cushion layer charge regulation prevention layer reflective layer color adjustment layer storage improvement layer anti adhesion layer anticurl layer smoothing layer and the like. These layers may be single layer structures or may be laminated structures.

To give the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention a photographic feature the support is a support having a low light transmittance of preferably 30 or less more preferably 20 or less and still more preferably 15 or less.

The light transmittance can be measured by a direct reading haze meter Suga Test Instruments HGM 2DP .

The support preferably has a surface center line average roughness of 0.01 m to 5 m and more preferably 0.05 m to 3 m.

By adjusting the center line average roughness within the above range an electrophotographic image receiving sheet with outstanding characteristics such as paper transport properties can be provided.

There is no particular limitation on the aforesaid support which can be suitably selected according to the purpose. Examples of the support include raw paper synthetic paper synthetic resin sheet coated paper laminated paper and the like. These supports may have a single layer structure or a laminated layer structure in which two or more layers are disposed.

The materials of the raw paper including synthetic paper may be those types of raw paper used as supports in the art which can be selected from various kinds of materials without any particular limitation. Examples of the materials of the raw paper include natural pulp selected from needle leaf trees and broadleaf trees synthetic pulp made from plastics materials such as polyethylene polypropylene or the like a mixture of the natural pulp and the synthetic pulp and the like.

Regarding pulps used as materials for raw paper from the viewpoint of good balance between surface flatness and smoothness of the raw paper rigidity and dimensional stability curl broadleaf tree bleached kraft pulp LBKP is preferred. Needle leaf bleached kraft pulp NBKP broadleaf tree sulfite pulp LBSP and the like can also be used.

A beater or a refiner or the like can be used for beating the pulp. Various additives for example fillers dry paper reinforcers sizing agents wet paper reinforcers fixing agents pH regulators or other agents or the like may be added if necessary to the pulp slurry hereafter may be referred to as pulp paper material which is obtained after beating the pulp.

Examples of fillers include calcium carbonate clay kaolin white clay talc titanium oxide diatomaceous earth barium sulfate aluminum hydroxide magnesium hydroxide and the like.

Examples of dry paper reinforcers include cationic starch cationic polyacrylamide anionic polyacrylamide amphoteric polyacrylamide carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol and the like.

Examples of sizing agents include a compound and the like which contains rosin derivatives such as aliphatic acid salts rosin maleic rosin or the like paraffin wax and the like higher aliphatic acids such as alkyl ketene dimer alkenyl succinic anhydride ASA epoxy aliphatic acid amides or the like.

Examples of wet paper reinforcers include polyamine polyamide epichlorohydrin melamine resin urea resin epoxy polyamide resin and the like.

Examples of fixing agents include polyfunctional metal salts such as aluminum sulfate aluminum chloride or the like cationic polymers such as cationic starch or the like.

Examples of pH regulators include caustic soda sodium carbonate and the like. Examples of other agents include defoaming agents dyes slime control agents optical whitening agents and the like.

Moreover softeners can also be added if necessary. An example of the softeners is indicated on pp. 554 555 of Shiyaku Time Co. 1980 .

Treatment liquids used for sizing a surface include water soluble polymers sizing agents waterproof materials pigments pH regulators dyes optical whitening agents and the like. Examples of water soluble polymers include cationic starch polyvinyl alcohol carboxy modified polyvinyl alcohol carboxymethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose cellulose sulfite gelatin casein sodium polyacrylate styrene maleic anhydride copolymer sodium salt sodium polystyrene sulfonate and the like.

Examples of the waterproof materials include styrene butadiene copolymer ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer polyethylene latex emulsions of vinylidene chloride copolymer or the like polyamide polyamine epichlorohydrin and the like.

Examples of the pigments include calcium carbonate clay kaolin talc barium sulfate titanium oxide and the like.

Examples of the raw paper materials include the aforesaid natural pulps synthetic pulp paper mixtures of the natural pulp and the synthetic pulp various types of composite papers and the like.

As for the above raw paper to improve the rigidity and dimensional stability curl of electrophotographic image receiving paper it is preferred that the ratio Ea Eb of the longitudinal Young s modulus Ea and the lateral Young s modulus Eb is within the range of 1.5 to 2.0. If the Ea Eb value is less than 1.5 or more than 2.0 the rigidity and curl of the electrophotographic image receiving paper tend to deteriorate and may interfere with paper when transferred.

In the present invention the Wang research smoothness of a surface of the toner image receiving layer of the raw paper is 210 seconds or more and preferably 250 seconds or more. If the Wang research smoothness is less than 210 seconds the quality of the toner image is poor. There is no particular limitation on the upper limit. However in practice about 600 seconds and preferably about 500 seconds are suitable.

The present invention solves various problems by adopting a Wang research smoothness of 210 seconds or more which is far larger than the Wang research smoothness adopted in the related art.

Here the Wang research smoothness refers to the smoothness specified by the JAPAN TAPPI No. 5 B method.

It has been found that in general the tone of the paper differs based on differences in the way the paper is beaten and the elasticity modulus of paper from paper making after beating can be used as an important indication of the tone of the paper.

The elastic modulus of the paper can be calculated from the following equation by using the relation of the density and the dynamic modulus which shows the physical properties of a viscoelastic object and by measuring the velocity of sound propagation in the paper using an ultrasonic oscillator. 1 E dynamic modulus density c velocity of sound in paper n Poisson s ratio 

As n 0.2 or so in a case of ordinary paper there is not much difference in the calculation even if the calculation is performed by the following equation E c

Namely if the density of the paper and acoustic velocity can be measured the elastic modulus can easily be calculated. In the above equation when measuring acoustic velocity various instruments known in the art may be used such as a Sonic Tester SST 110 Nomura Shoji Co. Ltd. or the like.

It is preferred that the thickness of the raw paper is 30 m to 500 m more preferred that it is 50 m to 300 m and still more preferred that it is 100 m to 250 m. The weighting of the raw paper is for example preferably 50 g mto 250 g m and more preferably 100 g mto 200 g m.

Specifically the raw paper may be a fine quality paper for example the paper described in CORONA PUBLISHING CO. LTD. 1979 pp. 223 240 edited by the Institute of Photography of Japan.

In the aforesaid raw paper it is preferred to use pulp fibers having a fiber length distribution as disclosed for example in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A No. 58 68037 e.g. the sum of 24 mesh screen residue and 42 mesh screen residue is 20 by mass to 45 by mass and 24 mesh screen residue is 5 by mass or less in order to give the desired center line average roughness to the surface. Moreover the center line average roughness can be adjusted by heating and giving a pressure to a surface of the raw paper with a machine calendar super calendar or the like.

The synthetic resin sheet may be a synthetic resin formed in the shape of a sheet film . The synthetic resins sheet may for example be obtained by extruding polyolefin resin such as polypropylene resin or the like or polyester resins such as polyethylene terephthalate resin or the like into a shape of a sheet.

The aforesaid coated paper is a paper or sheet on one side or both sides of which rubber latex polymer materials or the like is coated. The amount to be coated differs according to the use. Examples of the coated papers include art paper cast coated paper Yankee paper and the like.

If a resin is used to coat the surface of raw paper for example it is appropriate to use a thermoplastic resin. Examples of the thermoplastic resins include the thermoplastic resins of the following a to h .

 a Polyolefin resins such as polyethylene resin polypropylene resin or the like copolymer resins of an olefin such as ethylene or propylene with other vinyl monomers acrylic resins and the like.

 b Thermoplastic resins containing at least an ester bond. For example polyester resins obtained by condensation of dicarboxylic acid components these dicarboxylic acid components may be substituted by a sulfonic acid group a carboxyl group and the like. and alcoholic components these alcoholic components may be substituted by the hydroxyl group and the like polyacrylic acid ester resins or polymethacrylic acid ester resins such as polymethylmethacrylate polybutylmethacrylate polymethylacrylate polybutylacrylate and the like polycarbonate resin polyvinyl acetate resin styrene acrylate resin styrene methacrylic acid ester copolymer resin vinyltoluene acrylate resin and the like.

Specifically the resins described in JP A Nos. 59 101395 63 7971 63 7972 63 7973 60 294862 or the like may be mentioned.

Examples of commercial products include Bailon 290 Bailon 200 Bailon 280 Bailon 300 Bailon 103 Bailon GK 140 and Bailon GK 130 from Toyobo Co. Ltd Tufton NE 382 Tufton U 5 ATR 2009 and ATR 2010 from Kao Corporation Eritel UE3500 UE3210 XA 8153 KZA 7049 and KZA 1449 from Unitika Ltd. polyester TP 220 and R 188 from The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. and thermoplastic resins in the high loss series from SEIKO CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES CO. LTD. and the like.

 f Polyvinyl chloride resin polyvinylidence chloride resin vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer resin vinyl chloride vinyl propionate copolymer resin and the like.

 g Polyol resins such as polyvinyl butyral and cellulose resins such as ethyl cellulose resin and cellulose acetate resin.

 h Polycaprolactone resin styrene maleic anhydride resin polyacrylonitrile resin polyether resins epoxy resins phenol resins and the like.

A thickness of the thermoplastic resin layer is preferably 5 m to 100 m and more preferably 15 m to 50 m. A thermoplastic resin layer provided on a surface of paper and a thermoplastic resin layer provide on a back surface of the paper may have either the same or different components physical properties thickness and structure.

The aforesaid laminated paper comprises various kinds of sheets or films of resins rubber polymer or the like on a sheet such as raw paper or the like. Examples of laminating materials include polyolefin polyvinyl chloride polyethylene terephthalate polystyrene polymethacrylate polycarbonate polyimide triacetyl cellulose and the like. These resins may be used either alone or in combination of two or more.

The aforesaid polyolefin is generally formed using a low density polyethylene. In order to improve the heat resisting properties of the support it is preferred to use polypropylene a blend of polypropylene and polyethylene high density polyethylene a blend of high density polyethylene and low density polyethylene or the like. From the viewpoints of cost and suitability for lamination it is most preferred to use the blend of high density polyethylene and low density polyethylene.

The aforesaid blend of high density polyethylene and low density polyethylene is used in a blending ratio mass ratio of for example 1 9 to 9 1. This blending ratio is preferably 2 8 to 8 2 and more preferably 3 7 to 7 3. When forming a thermoplastic resin layer on both sides of this support it is preferred to use high density polyethylene or the blend of high density polyethylene and low density polyethylene on the undersurface of the support. There is no particular limitation on the molecular weight of polyethylene. However it is preferred that the melt index is within 1.0 g 10 minutes to 40 g 10 minutes for both high density polyethylene and low density polyethylene and is preferred that it has extrusion suitability.

In addition a treatment may be performed to confer white reflective properties on these sheets or films. An example of such a treatment method is to blend a pigment such as titanium oxide or the like into these sheets or films.

The resin used for coating or laminating is not limited to a thermoplastic resin. Examples of the resins for coating or laminating further include resin in which monomer or thermoplastic resin is reacted with light hardeners cross linking agents or the like thermocuring resin and the like.

At least one layer of the aforesaid coating or laminated resin layers may be a monomer containing a photopolymerization initiator or may be a resin composition cured by UV irradiation. The resin composition may in this case contain an electron beam hardening organic compound as a main component. There is no particular limitation on the type of this electron beam hardening organic compound which may be a monomer or an oligomer. These may be used either alone or in combination of two or more.

The aforesaid electron beam hardening unsaturated compound may for example be selected from the following compounds.

 1 Acrylate compounds of aliphatic alicyclic or aromatic aliphatic monovalent to sixvalent alcohols and polyalkylene glycols

 2 Acrylate compounds obtained by adding alkylene oxides to aliphatic alicyclic or aromatic aliphatic monovalent to sixvalent alcohols

Examples of these compounds or specifically examples of the electron beam hardening unsaturated organic compound include polyoxyethylene epichlorohydrin modified bisphenol A diacrylate dicyclohexyl acrylate epichlorohydrin modified polyethylene glycol diacrylate 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate hydroxybivaric acid ester neopentyl glycol diacrylate nonyl phenoxypolyethylene glycol acrylate ethylene oxide modified phenoxyic phosphoric acid acrylate ethylene oxide modified phthalic acid acrylate polybutadiene acrylate caprolactam modified tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate tris acryloxyethyl isocyanate trimethylol propane triacrylate pentaerythritol triacrylate pentaerythritol tetraacrylate pentaerythritol penta acrylate dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate polyethylene glycol diacrylate 1 4 butadiene diol diacrylate neopentyl glycol diacrylate neo pentyl glycol modified trimethylol propane diacrylate and the like.

According to the present invention these organic compounds may be used either alone or in combination of two or more.

Regarding the aforesaid coating or laminated resin layer there is no particular limitation on the type of UV radiation hardening organic compound which becomes cured by UV irradiation. This UV radiation hardening resin composition may be prepared by adding a suitable amount of the aforesaid photopolymerization initiator to the aforesaid electron beam hardening resin. According to the present invention the resin composition used for electron beam hardening may or may not contain a photopolymerization initiator and it is preferable to use it to the extent that it does not generate an odor.

The photopolymerization initiator may be any of those known in the art. Example of the photopolymerization initiator include ethyl anthraquinone methyl benzoyl formate 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenylketone antophenone acetophenones such as diethoxyacetophenone and trichloroacetophenone o benzoyl methylbenzoate benzophenone Michler s ketone benzyl benzoin benzoin alkyl ether benzyl dimethylketal tetramethyl thiuram monosulfide xanthone thioxanthones benzophenones azo compounds and the like. These photopolymerization initiators may be used either alone or combination of two or more.

The amount to add the aforesaid photopolymerization initiator is preferably 0.1 by mass to 10 by mass relative to the mass of UV radiation hardening resin. The concurrent use of photopolymerization promoters known in the art such as N methyldiethanolamine bis diethyl aminobenzophenone or the like together with the aforesaid photopolymerization initiator is preferred to improve the curing rate. There is no particular limitation on the amount to add the aforesaid photopolymerization promoter as long as it has an effect. However it is generally preferred to be 0.5 times to 2 times more than the mass of photopolymerization initiator.

There is no particular limitation on the electron beam accelerator used for the aforesaid electron beam irradiation. Example of the electron beam accelerator include the electron beam irradiation device such as a Van der Graaf scanning type a double scanning type a curtain beam type or the like.

There is no particular limitation on the ultraviolet irradiation device used for the aforesaid UV irradiation. Examples of the ultraviolet irradiation device include a low pressure mercury lamp medium pressure mercury lamp high pressure mercury lamp metal halide lamp and the like.

The aforesaid support may have a desired laminated constitution of the various kinds of support mentioned above.

Methods for coating resin or like on the raw paper or the like include coating impregnating or spraying a resin solution or suspension onto the raw paper.

To improve adhesion of the resin to be coated on the raw paper it is preferred to give one or both surfaces of the raw paper an activation treatment such as corona discharge treatment flame treatment glow discharge treatment or the like or plasma treatment prior to coating or laminating the resin.

A surface treatment such as corona discharge treatment may be given to the raw paper the synthetic paper or synthetic resin sheet or after providing a coating layer or laminated layer thereon or an undercoat may be applied to the surface to improve the adhesion of the upper layer for example the toner image receiving layer.

In addition the surface of the thermoplastic resin layer used for the coated paper may if necessary be given a gloss finish or a fine finish matt finish or grainy finish as described in JP A No. 55 26507 or a non gloss finish may if necessary be given to the surface of the thermoplastic resin layer on the opposite side undersurface to the side on which the electroconducting layer is provided. Further activation such as corona discharge treatment or flame treatment can be applied to these surfaces after giving them a finish. These treatments may be carried out either alone or in a desirable combination of two ore more treatments. The desirable combination includes subjecting the surface of the layer to activation after shaping or the like providing under coating after the activation and the like.

Suitable additives may be added to the thermal plastic resin layer or the like as long as it does not affect the objects of the present invention.

The thickness of the aforesaid support is preferably 25 m to 300 m more preferably 50 m to 260 m and still more preferably 75 m to 220 m. Supports having various rigidity may be used according to the purpose. It is preferred that the support used for electrophotographic image receiving sheets of photographic image quality is close to the support used for color film photos.

From the viewpoint of fixing performance it is preferred that the thermal conductivity of the support under the condition of 65 of relative humidity at 20 C. is for example 0.50 kcal m h C. or more. Here thermal conductivity can be measured on a humidified transfer supported on JIS P 8111 by the process disclosed in JP A No. 53 66279. It is also preferred from the above viewpoint that the density of this support is 0.7 g cmor more.

Various kinds of additives suitably selected as long as it does not adversely affect the objects of the present invention can be blended into the support. Examples of the additives include whiteners conductive agents fillers titanium oxide ultramarine blue pigments such as carbon black or the like.

Hydrophilic binders alumina sol semiconducting metal oxides such as tin oxide and carbon black or other antistatic agents may be blended with the support or coated on its surface or undersurface or both. Specifically the support disclosed in JP A No. 63 220246 may be used. It is preferred that this support can withstand the fixing temperature and can satisfy requirements regarding whiteness degree slipping properties frictional properties antistatic properties depression after fixing and the like.

The surface of the image receiving sheet on the toner image receiving layer side of the support refers to the surface of the image receiving sheet in contact with the fixing belt. Specific examples of the surface of the image receiving sheet include the toner image receiving layer and surface protection layer on the support both of which are layers on the surface of the image receiving sheet. For example this may be the toner image receiving layer in .

If there is a toner image receiving layer on the surface of the image receiving sheet the layer which forms the surface of the image receiving sheet is the toner image receiving layer. The toner image receiving layer comprises a polymer and preferably comprises a thermoplastic resin as its main component. The amount of the polymer contained in the toner image receiving layer is 10 by mass or more and preferably 30 by mass or more relative to the mass of the toner image receiving layer. The amount of the polymer is still more preferably 90 by mass to 99.5 by mass and further still more preferably 93 by mass to 99 by mass relative to the mass of the toner image receiving layer.

The toner image receiving layer is provided on or above at least one side of the support and has functions to receive toner which forms an image from a developing drum or intermediate transfer body due to static electricity or pressure or the like. in a transfer step and be fixed by heat or pressure or the like in a belt fixing step.

To give the toner image receiving layer of the present invention a photographic texture it has a low light transmittance of preferably 78 or less more preferably 73 or less and still more preferably 72 or less.

The light transmittance can be measured by separately forming a coating film having the same thickness on a polyethylene terephthalate film 100 m using a direct reading haze meter Suga Test Instruments HGM 2DP on the coating film.

The material of the above mentioned toner image receiving layer includes at least a thermoplastic resin and a releasing agent. Other materials may be also contained if needed.

There is no particular limitation on the above mentioned thermoplastic resin which may be selected according to the purpose as long as it can change its shape at the fixing temperature and can receive toner. It is preferable if the thermoplastic resin is similar to the binder resin of the toner. Many of the toners contain polyester resin styrene or a copolymer resin such as styrene butylacrylate. In this case it is preferable to use a polyester resin styrene or a copolymer resin such as styrene butylacrylate as the thermoplastic resin used for the electrophotographic image receiving sheet. It is more preferable to use 20 by mass or more of the polyester resin styrene or copolymer resin such as styrene butylacrylate. Styrene styrene butylacrylate copolymer styrene acrylic acid ester copolymer and styrene methacrylic acid ester copolymer are also preferred.

Specific examples of the thermoplastic resin include a resins containing ester bonds b polyurethane resins c polyamide resins d polysulfone resins e polyvinyl chloride resins f polyvinyl butyral g polycaprolactone resins h polyolefin resins and the like.

Examples of a resins containing ester bonds include polyester resins obtained by condensation of a dicarboxylic acid component such as terephthalic acid isophthalic acid maleic acid fumaric acid phthalic acid adipic acid sebacic acid azelaic acid abietic acid succinic acid trimellitic acid pyromellitic acid or the like in these dicarboxylic acid components the sulfonic acid group carboxyl group or the like may be substituted with an alcohol component such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol propylene glycol bisphenol A diether derivative of bisphenol A for example ethyleneoxide biaddition product of bisphenol A propylene oxide biaddition product of bisphenol A or the like bisphenol S 2 ethyl cyclohexyl dimethanol neopentyl glycol cyclohexyldimethanol glycerol or the like in these alcohol components the hydroxyl group may be substituted polyacrylic ester resins or polymethacrylic acid ester resins such as polymethylmethacrylate polbutylmethacrylate polymethyl acrylate and polybutylacrylate polycarbonate resins polyvinyl acetate resins styrene acrylate resins styrene methacrylic acid ester copolymer resin vinyltoluene acrylate resin and the like.

Specific examples are given in Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A Nos. 59 101395 63 7971 63 7972 63 7973 and 60 294862 or the like.

Commercially available products of the above mentioned polyester resins are Bylon 290 Bylon 200 Bylon 280 Bylon 300 Bylon 103 Bylon GK 140 and Bylon GK 130 from Toyobo Co. Ltd Tufton NE 382 Tufton U 5 ATR 2009 and ATR 2010 from Kao Corporation Eritel UE3500 UE3210 and XA 8153 from Unitika Ltd Polyester TP 220 R 188 from The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co. Ltd or the like.

Commercially available products of the above mentioned acrylic resins are SE 5437 SE 5102 SE 5377 SE 5649 SE 5466 SE 5482 HR 169 124 HR 1127 HR 116 HR 113 HR 148 HR 131 HR 470 HR 634 HR 606 HR 607 LR 1065 574 143 396 637 162 469 216 BR 50 BR 52 BR 60 BR 64 BR 73 BR 75 BR 77 BR 79 BR 80 BR 83 BR 85 BR 87 BR 88 BR 90 BR 93 BR 95 BR 100 BR 101 BR 102 BR 105 BR 106 BR 107 BR 108 BR 112 BR 113 BR 115 BR 116 BR 117 from Mitsubishi Rayon Ltd. Esrec P SE 0020 SE 0040 SE 0070 SE 0100 SE 1010 SE 1035 from Sekisui Chemical Co. Ltd. Himer ST95 and ST120 from Sanyo Chemical Industries Ltd. FM601 from Mitsui Chemicals Inc or the like.

The polyvinyl chloride resin e mentioned above may for example be a polyvinylidene chloride resin vinyl chloride vinyl acetate copolymer resin vinyl chloride propionic acid vinyl copolymer resin or the like.

The polyvinyl butyral f mentioned above may be a cellulose resin such as a polyol resin ethyl cellulose resin cellulose acetate resin or the like. Commercially available products thereof are manufactured by Denki Kagaku Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha and Sekisui Chemicals Ltd. The aforesaid polyvinyl butyral preferably contains 70 by mass or more of polyvinyl butyral and preferably has an average polymerization degree of 500 or more and more preferably an average polymerization degree of 1000 or more. Commercially available products thereof are Denka Butyral 3000 1 4000 2 5000A and 6000C from Denki Kagaku Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha and Esrec BL 1 BL 2 BL 3 BL S BX L BM 1 BM 2 BM 5 BM S BH 3 BX 1 BX 7 from Sekisui Chemicals Ltd or the like.

Further examples of the polycaprolactone resin g include styrene maleic anhydride resin polyacrylonitrile resin polyether resins epoxy resins phenol resins and the like.

Examples of the polyolefin resin h include polyethylene resin and polypropylene resin copolymer resins of olefins such as ethylene propylene or the like with other vinyl monomers acrylic resins and the like.

These thermoplastic resins can be used either alone or in combination of two or more. Additionally mixtures thereof and copolymers thereof can also be used.

It is preferred that the thermoplastic resin satisfies the physical properties of the toner image receiving layer when the toner image receiving sheet is formed. It is more preferred that it satisfies the physical properties of the toner image receiving layer when the resin is used alone. It is also preferred that two or more resins giving different physical properties to the toner image receiving layer are used in combination.

It is preferred that the thermoplastic resin has a larger molecular weight than that of the thermoplastic resin used for the toner. However this molecular weight relation may not always be desirable depending on the thermodynamic properties of the thermoplastic resin used for the toner and the resin used for the toner image receiving layer. For example if the softening temperature of the resin used for the toner image receiving layer is higher than that of the thermoplastic resin used for the toner it is preferred that the molecular weights are identical or that the molecular weight of the resin used for the toner image receiving layer is smaller.

It is preferred that the thermoplastic resin used is a mixture of resins with identical compositions having different average molecular weights. The relation of molecular weights of thermoplastic resins used as toners is disclosed in JP A No. 08 334915.

The molecular weight distribution of the thermoplastic resin is preferably wider than the molecular weight distribution of the thermoplastic resin used in the toner.

It is preferred that the thermoplastic resin satisfies the physical properties disclosed in Japanese Patent Application Publication JP B No. 05 127413 JP A Nos. 08 194394 08 334915 08 334916 09 171265 10 221877 and the like.

Due to the reasons i to ii below it is particularly preferred that the thermoplastic resin used in the toner image receiving layer is an aqueous resin such as a water soluble resin or water dispersible resin.

 i there is no discharge of organic solvent in the coating and drying steps which is excellent for the environment and provides easy working.

 ii many releasing agents such as wax are difficult to soluble in solvents at room temperature so the releasing agents are often dispersed in a solvent water organic solvent in advance. If they are dispersed in water they are stable and highly suited to manufacturing steps. Further if they are applied in an aqueous form the wax easily bleeds on the surface in the coating and drying steps and it is easy to obtain a releasing agent effect offset resistance adhesion resistance and the like .

As long as it is a water soluble resin or water degradable resin the aqueous resin may have any composition bond structure molecular structure molecular weight molecular weight distribution or formation.

Examples of polymer groups which confer aqueous affinity include a sulfonyl group a hydroxyl group a carboxyl group an amino group an amide group an ether group and the like.

Examples of the aforesaid water soluble resins are given on page 26 of No. 17 643 page 651 of No. 18 716 pp 873 874 of Nos. 307 105 and pp 71 75 of JP A No. 64 13546.

Specific examples include a vinyl pyrrolidone vinyl acetate copolymer styrene vinyl pyrrolidone copolymer styrene maleic anhydride copolymer water soluble polyester water soluble acryl water soluble polyurethane water soluble nylon a water soluble epoxy resin and the like. Moreover various types of gelatins may be selected according to the purpose from liming gelatin acid treated gelatin and deliming gelatin wherein the content of calcium or the like is reduced and it is also preferable to use these in combination. Examples of water soluble polyesters are various plus coats from GaO Chemical Industries and the FineTex ES series from Dainippon Ink and Chemicals Incorporated. Examples of water soluble acryls are the Julimer AT series from NIHON JUNYAKU CO. LTD. FineTex 6161 and K 96 from Dainippon Ink and Chemicals Incorporated and High Loss NL 1189 and BH 997L from SEIKO CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES CO. LTD.

Examples of water dispersible resins are water dispersible type resins such as water dispersible acrylate resin water dispersible polyester resin water dispersible polystyrene resin water dispersible urethane resin or the like and emulsions such as acrylic resin emulsion polyvinyl acetate emulsion SBR styrene butadiene emulsion or the like. The resin can be conveniently selected from an aqueous dispersion of the aforesaid thermoplastic resins a to h their emulsions or their copolymers mixtures and cation modified or the like. Two or more of these sorts can be combined.

Examples of the aforesaid water dispersible resins in the polyester class are the Byronal Series from Toyobo Co. Ltd the Pethregin A Series from TAKAMATSU OIL FAT CO. LTD the Tufton UE Series from Kao Corporation the Japan Synthetic Polyester WR Series the Aeriel Series from Unitika Ltd. and the like. Examples in the acrylic class include the High Loss XE KE and PE series from SEIKO CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES CO. LTD. the Julimer ET series from NIHON JUNYAKU CO. LTD. and the like.

It is preferred that the film forming temperature MFT of the polymer is above room temperature for storage before printing and is 100 C. or lower for fixing of toner particles.

In the present invention it is preferable to use a self dispersing aqueous polyester resin emulsion which satisfies the following characteristics 1 to 4 as the above mentioned thermoplastic resin. As the thermoplastic resin is a self dispersing type which does not use a surfactant its hygroscopic properties are low even in a high humidity environment its softening point is not much lowered by moisture and offset produced during fixing or sticking of sheets in storage can be prevented. Moreover since it is aqueous it is excellent in terms of environment and of workability. As it uses a polyester resin which assumes a molecular structure with high cohesion energy it has sufficient hardness in a storage environment assumes a melting state of low elasticity low viscosity in the electrophotographic fixing step and toner is embedded in the image receiving layer so as to attain image quality.

 1 The number average molecular weight Mn is preferably 5000 to 10000 and more preferably 5000 to 7000.

 2 The molecular weight distribution weight average molecular weight number average molecular weight is preferably 4 and Mw Mn is more preferably 3.

 3 The glass transition temperature Tg is preferably 40 C. to 100 C. and more preferably 50 C. to 80 C.

 4 The volume average particle diameter is preferably 20 nm to 200 nm and more preferably 40 nm to 150 nm .

The releasing agent of the present invention is blended into the toner image receiving layer in order to prevent offset of the toner image receiving layer. There is no particular limitation on the type of releasing agent of the present invention as long as it dissolves deposits onto the surface of the toner image receiving layer and is unevenly disposed on the surface of the toner image receiving layer when heated to the fixing temperature and forms a layer of releasing agent in the surface of the toner image receiving layer when cooled and solidified.

The releasing agent having such effects is one or more type of releasing agents selected from a silicone compound a fluorine compound wax and a matting agent. Preferably the releasing agent is one or more types selected from silicone oil polyethylene wax carnauva wax silicone particles and polyethylene wax particles.

The releasing agent used in the present invention may for example be a compound mentioned in Properties and Applications of Waxes Revised published by Saiwai Shobo or in The Silicone Handbook published by THE NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN. Also the silicone compounds fluorine compounds and wax used in the toners mentioned in Japanese Patent Application Publication JP B No. 59 38581 Japanese Patent Application Publication JP B No. 04 32380 Japanese Patent JP B No. 2838498 No. 2949558 Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A No. 50 117433 52 52640 57 148755 61 62056 61 62057 61 118760 and Japanese Patent Application Laid Open JP A No. 02 42451 03 41465 04 212175 04 214570 04 263267 05 34966 05 119514 06 59502 06 161150 06 175396 06 219040 06 230600 06 295093 07 36210 07 43940 07 56387 07 56390 07 64335 07 199681 07 223362 07 287413 08 184992 08 227180 08 248671 08 248799 08 248801 08 278663 09 152739 09 160278 09 185181 09 319139 09 319143 10 20549 10 48889 10 198069 10 207116 11 2917 11 44969 11 65156 11 73049 and 11 194542 may be used. These compounds can be used also in combination of two or more.

Examples of silicone compounds include non modified silicone oils specifically dimethyl siloxane oil methyl hydrogen silicone oil phenyl methyl silicone oil or commercial products such as KF 96 KF 96L KF 96H KF 99 KF 50 KF 54 KF 56 KF 965 KF 968 KF 994 KF 995 and HIVAC F 4 F 5 from Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. SH200 SH203 SH490 SH510 SH550 SH710 SH704 SH705 SH7028A SH7036 SM7060 SM7001 SM7706 SH7036 SH8710 SH1107 and SH8627 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. and TSF400 TSF401 TSF404 TSF405 TSF431 TSF433 TSF434 TSF437 TSF450 Series TSF451 series TSF456 TSF458 Series TSF483 TSF484 TSF4045 TSF4300 TSF4600 YF33 Series YF 3057 YF 3800 YF 3802 YF 3804 YF 3807 YF 3897 XF 3905 XS69 A1753 TEX100 TEX101 TEX102 TEX103 TEX104 TSW831 and the like from GE Toshiba Silicones amino modified silicone oils for example KF 857 KF 858 KF 859 KF 861 KF 864 and KF 880 from Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. SF8417 and SM8709 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. and TSF4700 TSF4701 TSF4702 TSF4703 TSF4704 TSF4705 TSF4706 TEX150 TEX151 and TEX154 from GE Toshiba Silicones carboxy modified silicone oils for example BY16 880 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. TSF4770 and XF42 A9248 from GE Toshiba Silicones carbinol modified silicone oils for example XF42 B0970 from GE Toshiba Silicones vinyl modified silicone oils for example XF40 A1987 from GE Toshiba Silicones epoxy modified silicone oils for example SF8411 and SF8413 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. TSF3965 TSF4730 TSF4732 XF42 A4439 XF42 A4438 XF42 A5041 XC96 A4462 XC96 A4463 XC96 A4464 and TEX170 from GE Toshiba Silicones polyether modified silicone oils for example KF 351 A KF 352 A KF 353 A KF 354 A KF 355 A KF 615 A KF 618 and KF 945 A from Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. SH3746 SH3771 SF8421 SF8419 SH8400 and SF8410 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. TSF4440 TSF4441 TSF4445 TSF4446 TSF4450 TSF4452 TSF4453 and TSF4460 from GE Toshiba Silicones silanol modified silicone oils methacryl modified silicone oils mercapto modified silicone oils alcohol modified silicone oils for example SF8427 and SF8428 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. TSF4750 TSF4751 and XF42 B0970 from GE Toshiba Silicones alkyl modified silicone oils for example SF8416 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. TSF410 TSF411 TSF4420 TSF4421 TSF4422 TSF4450 XF42 334 XF42 A3160 and XF42 A3161 from GE Toshiba Silicones fluorine modified silicone oils for example FS1265 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. and FQF501 from GE Toshiba Silicones silicone rubbers and silicone fine particles for example SH851 SH745U SH55UA SE4705U SH502 UA B SRX539U SE6770 U P DY 38 038 DY38 047 Trefil F 201 F 202 F 250 R 900 R 902A E 500 E 600 E 601 E 506 BY29 119 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. Tospal 105 120 130 145 240 and 3120 from GE Toshiba Silicones silicone modified resins specifically olefin resins or polyester resins vinyl resins polyamide resins cellulosic resins phenoxy resins vinyl chloride vinyl acetate resins urethane resins acrylic resins styrene acrylic resins compounds in which copolymerization resins thereof are modified by silicone for example Diaroma SP203V SP712 SP2105 and SP3023 from Dainichiseika Color Chemicals Mfg. Co. Ltd. Modepa FS700 FS710 FS720 FS730 and FS770 from NOF CORPORATION Simac US 270 US 350 US 352 US 380 US 413 US 450 Reseda GP 705 GS 30 GF 150 and GF 300 from TOAGOSEI CO. LTD. SH997 SR2114 SH2104 SR2115 SR2202 DCI 2577 SR2317 SE4001U SRX625B SRX643 SRX439U SRX488U SH804 SH840 SR2107 and SR2115 from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. YR3370 TSR1122 TSR102 TSR108 TSR116 TSR117 TSR125A TSR127B TSR144 TSR180 TSR187 YR47 YR3187 YR3224 YR3232 YR3270 YR3286 YR3340 YR3365 TEX152 TEX153 TEX171 and TEX172 from GE Toshiba Silicones and reactive silicone compounds specifically addition reaction type peroxide curing type and ultraviolet radiation curing type examples include TSR1500 TSR1510 TSR1511 TSR1515 TSR1520 YR3286 YR3340 PSA6574 TPR6500 TPR6501 TPR6600 TPR6702 TPR6604 TPR6700 TPR6701 TPR6705 TPR6707 TPR6708 TPR6710 TPR6712 TPR6721 TPR6722 UV9300 UV9315 UV9425 UV9430 XS56 A2775 XS56 A2982 XS56 A3075 XS56 A3969 XS56 A5730 XS56 A8012 XS56 B1794 SL6100 SM3000 SM3030 SM3200 and YSR3022 from GE Toshiba Silicones and the like.

Examples of fluorine compounds include fluorine oils for example Daifluoryl 1 3 10 20 50 100 Unidyne TG 440 TG 452 TG 490 TG 560 TG 561 TG 590 TG 652 TG 670U TG 991 TG 999 TG 3010 T Ltd. MF 100 MF 110 MF 120 MF 130 MF 160 and MF 160E from Tohkem Products S 111 S 112 S 113 S 121 S 131 S 132 S 141 and S 145 from Asahi Glass Co. Ltd. and FC 430 and FC 431 from DU PONT MITSUI FLUOROCHEMICALS COMPANY LTD fluoro rubbers for example LS63U from Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. fluorine modified resins for example Modepa F200 F220 F600 F2020 F600 F2020 F3035 from Nippon Oils and Fats Diaroma FF203 and FF204 from Dai Nichi Pure Chemicals Saflon S 381 S 383 S 393 SC 101 SC 105 KH 40 and SA 100 from Asahi Glass Co. Ltd. EF 351 EF 352 EF 801 EF 802 EF 601 TFE TFEA TFEMA and PDFOH from Tohkem Products and THV 200P from Sumitomo 3M fluorine sulfonic acid compound for example EF 101 EF 102 EF 103 EF 104 EF 105 EF 112 EF 121 EF 122A EF 122B EF 122C EF 123A EF 123B EF 125M EF 132 EF 135M EF 305 FBSA KFBS and LFBS from Tohkem Products fluorosulfonic acid and fluorine acid compounds or salts specifically anhydrous fluoric acid dilute fluoric acid fluoroboric acid zinc fluoroborate nickel fluoroborate tin fluoroborate lead fluoroborate copper fluoroborate fluorosilicic acid fluorinated potassium titanate perfluorocaprylic acid ammonium perfluorooctanoate and the like inorganic fluorides specifically aluminum fluoride potassium fluoride fluorinated potassium zirconate fluorinated zinc tetrahydrate calcium fluoride lithium fluoride barium fluoride tin fluoride potassium fluoride acid potassium fluoride magnesium fluoride fluorinated titanic acid fluorinated zirconic acid ammonium hexafluorinated phosphoric acid potassium hexafluorinated phosphoric acid and the like .

Examples of the wax include synthetic hydrocarbon modified wax hydrogenated wax natural wax and the like.

Examples of the synthetic hydrocarbon include polyethylene wax for example polyron A 393 and H 481 from Chukyo Yushi Co. Ltd. Sunwax E 310 E 330 E 250P LEL 250 LEL 800 LEL 400P from SANYO KASEI Co. Ltd. polypropyrene wax for example biscoal 330 P 550 P 660 P from SANYO KASEI Co. Ltd. Fischer toropush wax for example FT100 and FT 0070 from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. an acid amide compound or an acid imide compound specifically stearic acid amide anhydrous phthalic acid imide or the like for example Cellusol 920 B 495 hymicron G 270 G 110 hydrine D 757 from Chukyo Yushi Co. Ltd. and the like.

Examples of the modified wax include amine modified polypropyrene for example QN 7700 from SANYO KASEI Co. Ltd. acryl modified wax fluorine modified wax olefin modified wax urethan wax for example NPS 6010 and HAD 5090 from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. alcohol wax for example NPS 9210 NPS 9215 OX 1949 XO 020T from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. and the like.

Examples of hydrogenated waxes include cured castor oil for example castor wax from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. castor oil derivatives for example dehydrated castor oil DCO DCO Z 1 DCO Z 3 castor oil aliphatic acid CO FA ricinoleic acid dehydrated castor oil aliphatic acid DCO FA dehydrated castor oil aliphatic acid epoxy ester D 4 ester castor oil urethane acrylate CA 10 CA 20 CA 30 castor oil derivative MINERASOL S 74 S 80 S 203 S 42 S 321 special castor oil condensation aliphatic acid MINERASOL RC 2 RC 17 RC 55 RC 335 special castor oil condensation aliphatic acid ester MINERASOL LB 601 LB 603 LB 604 LB 702 LB 703 11 and L 164 from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. stearic acid for example 12 hydroxystearic acid from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. lauric acid myristic acid palmitic acid behenic acid sebacic acid for example sebacic acid from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. undecylenic acid for example undecylenic acid from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. heptyl acids heptyl acids from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. maleic acid high grade maleic oils for example HIMALEIN DC 15 LN 10 00 15 DF 20 and SF 20 from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. blown oils e.g. selbonol 10 30 60 R 40 and S 7 from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. and synthetic waxes such as cyclopentadieneic oil CP oil and CP oil S from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. .

The natural wax is preferably selected at least from vegetable wax mineral wax and petroleum wax. Of these vegetable wax is more preferable. A preferable example of the mineral wax includes water dispersed wax from a viewpoint of compatibility with solution when a hydrogetic thermal curing resin is used as the thermal curing resin in an image receiving layer of the toner.

Examples of the vegetable wax include carnuba waxes for example EMUSTAR AR 0413 from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. and Cellusol 524 from Chukyo Yushi Co. Ltd. castor oil purified castor oil from Itoh Oil Chemicals Co. Ltd. rapeseed oil soybean oil Japan tallow cotton wax rice wax sugarcane wax candellila wax Japan wax jojoba oil and the like.

Examples of animal waxes are bees wax lanolin spermaceti whale oil wool wax and the like. Of those carnuba wax having a melting point of 70 C. to 95 C. is particularly preferable from viewpoints of providing a fixing belt type electrophotographic image receiving sheet which is excellent in offset resistance adhesive resistance transfer properties brilliance is less likely to cause cracking and splitting and is capable of forming a high quality image.

Examples of the mineral wax include natural waxes such as montan wax montan ester wax ozokerite ceresin and the like aliphatic acid esters Sansosizer DOA AN 800 DINA DIDA DOZ DOS TOTM TITM E PS NE PS E PO E 4030 E 6000 E 2000H E 9000H TCP C 1100 and the like from New Japan Chemical Co. Ltd. and the like. Of these montan wax having a melting point of 70 C. to 95 C. is particularly preferable from viewpoints of providing a fixing belt type electrophotographic image receiving sheet which is excellent in offset resistance adhesive resistance transfer properties brilliance is less likely to cause cracking and splitting and is capable of forming a high quality image.

Examples of the petroleum wax include a paraffin wax for example Paraffin wax 155 150 140 135 130 125 120 115 HNP 3 HNP 5 HNP 9 HNP 10 HNP 11 HNP 12 HNP 14G SP 0160 SP 0145 SP 1040 SP 1035 SP 3040 SP 3035 NPS 8070 NPS L 70 OX 2151 OX 2251 EMUSTAR 0384 and EMUSTAR 0136 from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. Cellosol 686 428 651 A A H 803 B 460 E 172 866 K 133 hydrin D 337 and E 139 from Chukyo Yushi Co. Ltd. 125 paraffin 125 FD 130 paraffin 135 paraffin 135 H 140 paraffin 140 N 145 paraffin and paraffin wax M from Nippon Oil Corporation or a microcrystalline wax for example Hi Mic 2095 Hi Mic 3090 Hi Mic 1080 Hi Mic 1070 Hi Mic 2065 Hi Mic 1045 Hi Mic 2045 EMUSTAR 0001 and EMUSTAR 042 from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. Cellosol 967 M from Chukyo Yushi Co. Ltd. 155 Microwax and 180 Microwax from Nippon Oil Corporation and petrolatum for example OX 1749 OX 0450 OX 0650B OX 0153 OX 261BN OX 0851 OX 0550 OX 0750B JP 1500 JP 056R and JP 011P from Nippon Seiro Co. Ltd. and the like.

A content of the natural wax in the toner receiving layer a surface is preferably 0.1 g mto 4 g m and more preferably 0.2 g mto 2 g m. If the content is less than 0.1 g m the offset resistance and the adhesive resistance deteriorate. If the content is more than 4 g m the quality of an image may deteriorate because of the excessive amount of wax.

The melting point of the natural wax is preferably 70 C. to 95 C. and more preferably 75 C. to 90 C. from a viewpoint of offset resistance and paper transfer properties.

The matting agent can be selected from any known matting agent. Solid particles used as matting agents can be classified into inorganic particles and organic particles. Specifically the inorganic matting agents may be oxides for example silicon dioxide titanium oxide magnesium oxide aluminum oxide alkaline earth metal salts for example barium sulfate calcium carbonate and magnesium sulfate silver halides for example silver chloride and silver bromide glass and the like.

Examples of inorganic matting agents can be found for example in West German Patent No. 2529321 UK Patents Nos. 760775 1260772 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 1 201 905 2 192 241 3 053 662 3 062 649 3 257 206 3 322 555 3 353 958 3 370 951 3 411 907 3 437 484 3 523 022 3 615 554 3 635 714 3 769 020 4 021 245 and 4 029 504.

Materials of the aforesaid organic matting agent include starch cellulose ester for example cellulose acetate propionate cellulose ether for example ethyl cellulose and a synthetic resin. It is preferred that the synthetic resin is insoluble or had to become solved. Examples of insoluble or hard to become solved in synthetic resins include poly meta acrylic acid esters for example polyalkyl meta acrylate polyalkoxyalkyl meta acrylate polyglycidyl meta acrylate poly meta acrylamide polyvinyl ester for example polyvinyl acetate polyacrylonitrile polyolefins for example polyethylene polystyrene benzoguanamine resin formaldehyde condensation polymer epoxy resin polyamide polycarbonate phenolic resin polyvinyl carbazole and polyvinylidene chloride.

In the case of the aforesaid copolymers a small amount of hydrophilic repeating units may be included. Examples of monomers which form a hydrophilic repeated unit include acrylic acid methacrylic acid unsaturated dicarboxylic acid hydroxyalkyl meta acrylate sulfoalkyl meta acrylate and styrene sulfonic acid.

Examples of organic matting agents can be found for example in UK Patent No. 1055713 U.S. Pat. Nos. 1 939 213 2 221 873 2 268 662 2 322 037 2 376 005 2 391 181 2 701 245 2 992 101 3 079 257 3 262 782 3 443 946 3 516 832 3 539 344 3 591 379 3 754 924 and 3 767 448 and JP A Nos. 49 106821 and 57 14835.

Also two or more types of solid particles may be used in combination. The average particle size of the solid particles may conveniently be for example 1 m to 100 m and is more preferably 4 m to 30 m. The usage amount of the solid particles may conveniently be 0.01 g mto 0.5 g m and is more preferably 0.02 g mto 0.3 g m.

The releasing agent added to the toner image receiving layer of the present invention may also comprise different derivatives thereof oxides refined products and mixtures. These may also have reactive substituents.

The melting point C. of this releasing agent is preferably 70 C. to 95 C. and more preferably 75 C. to 90 C. from the viewpoints of offset resistance and paper transport properties.

The releasing agent is also preferably a water dispersible releasing agent from the viewpoint of compatibility when a water dispersible thermoplastic resin is used as the thermoplastic resin of the toner image receiving layer.

The content of the releasing agent in the toner image receiving layer is preferably 0.1 by mass to 20 by mass more preferably 0.3 by mass to 10.0 by mass and still more preferably 0.5 by mass to 8.0 by mass.

Examples of other components are various additives which may be added to improve the thermodynamic properties of the toner image receiving layer. Examples of the other components include colorants plasticizers fillers crosslinking agents charge control agents emulsifiers dispersants and the like. It is preferred that the other components contained in the toner image receiving layer have hollow particles and particularly preferred that the pigment has hollow particles as the toner image receiving layer then has excellent heat conductivity low heat conductivity during image fixing.

Examples of colorants include optical whitening agents white pigments colored pigments dyes and the like.

The aforesaid optical whitening agent has absorption in the near ultraviolet region and is a compound which emits fluorescence at 400 nm to 500 nm. The various optical whitening agents known in the art may be used without any particular limitation. Examples of the optical whitening agent include the compounds described in Volume V Chapter 8 edited by KVeenRataraman. Specific examples include stilbene compounds coumarin compounds biphenyl compounds benzo oxazoline compounds naphthalimide compounds pyrazoline compounds carbostyryl compounds and the like. Examples of these include white furfar PSN PHR HCS PCS and B from Sumitomo Chemicals UVITEX OB from Ciba Geigy and the like.

Examples of white pigments are the inorganic pigments described in the fillers for example titanium oxide calcium carbonate and the like . Examples of organic pigments include various pigments and azo pigments described in JP A No. 63 44653 for example azo lakes such as carmine 6B and red 2B insoluble azo compounds such as monoazo yellow disazo yellow pyrazolo orange Balkan orange and condensed azo compounds such as chromophthal yellow and chromophthal red polycyclic pigments for example phthalocyanines such as copper phthalocyanine blue and copper phthalocyanine green thioxadines such as thioxadine violet isoindolinones such as isoindolinone yellow surenes such as perylene perinon hulavanthoron and thioindigo lake pigments e.g. malachite green rhodamine B rhodamine G and Victoria blue B and inorganic pigments for example oxides titanium dioxide and red ocher sulfates such as precipitated barium sulfate carbonates such as precipitated calcium carbonates silicates such as water containing silicates and anhydrous silicates metal powders such as aluminum powder bronze powder and zinc dust carbon black chrome yellow and Berlin blue and the like.

These may be used either alone or in combination of two or. Of these titanium oxide is particularly preferred as the pigment.

There is no particular limitation on the form of the pigment. However hollow particles are preferred from the viewpoint that they have excellent heat conductivity low heat conductivity during image fixing.

Examples of water insoluble dyes include vat dyes such as C.I.Vat violet 1 C.I.Vat violet 2 C.I.Vat violet 9 C.I.Vat violet 13 C.I.Vat violet 21 C.I.Vat blue 1 C.I.Vat blue 3 C.I.Vat blue 4 C.I.Vat blue 6 C.I.Vat blue 14 C.I.Vat blue 20 and C.I.Vat blue 35 or the like disperse dyes such as C.I. disperse violet 1 C.I. disperse violet 4 C.I. disperse violet 10 C.I. disperse blue 3 C.I. disperse blue 7 C.I. disperse blue 58 or the like and oil soluble dyes such as C.I. solvent violet 13 C.I. solvent violet 14 C.I. solvent violet 21 C.I. solvent violet 27 C.I. solvent blue 11 C.I. solvent blue 12 C.I. solvent blue 25 C.I. solvent blue 55 or the like.

A content g m of the colorant in the aforesaid toner image receiving layer surface is preferably 0.1 g mto 8 g m and more preferably 0.5 g mto 5 g m.

If the content of colorant is less than 0.1 g m the light transmittance in the toner image receiving layer becomes high. If the content of the aforesaid colorant exceeds 8 g m handling becomes more difficult due to cracking and adhesive resistance.

The plasticizers known in the art may be used without any particular limitation. These plasticizers have the effect of adjusting the fluidity or softening of the toner image receiving layer due to heat and or pressure.

The plasticizer may be selected by referring to Chemical Handbook Chemical Institute of Japan Maruzen Plasticizers their Theory and Application ed. Kohichi Murai Saiwai Shobo The Study of Plasticizers Part 1 and The Study of Plasticizers Part 2 Polymer Chemistry Association or Handbook of Rubber and Plastics Blending Agents ed. Rubber Digest Co. or the like.

Some of the plasticizers are listed as high boiling organic solvents heat solvents or the like. Examples of the plasticizers include esters for example phthalic esters phosphate esters aliphatic acid esters abiethyne acid ester abietic acid ester sebacic acid esters azelinic ester benzoates butylates epoxy aliphatic acid esters glycolic acid esters propionic acid esters trimellitic acid esters citrates sulfonates carboxylates succinic acid esters maleates fumaric acid esters phthalic esters stearic acid esters and the like amides for example aliphatic acid amides and sulfoamides ethers alcohols lactones polyethyleneoxy compounds disclosed in JP A Nos. 59 83154 59 178451 59 178453 59 178454 59 178455 59 178457 62 174754 62 245253 61 209444 61 200538 62 8145 62 9348 62 30247 62 136646 62 174754 62 245253 61 209444 61 200538 62 8145 62 9348 62 30247 62 136646 and 02 235694 or the like.

The plasticizers may be polymers having relatively low molecular weight. In this case it is preferred that the molecular weight of the plasticizer is lower than the molecular weight of the binder resin to be plasticized. Preferably plasticizers have a molecular weight of 15000 or less or more preferably 5000 or less. Further oligomers may also be used as plasticizers. Apart from the compounds mentioned above there are products such as for example Adecasizer PN 170 and PN 1430 from Asahi Denka Co. Ltd. PARAPLEX G 25 G 30 and G 40 from C.P.Hall and rosin ester 8 L JA ester R 95 pentalin 4851 FK 115 4820 830 Ruizol 28 JA Picolastic A75 Picotex LC and Cristalex 3085 from Rika Hercules Inc and the like.

The aforesaid plasticizer can be used as desired to relax stress and distortion physical distortions of elasticity and viscosity and distortions of mass balance in molecules binder main chains or pendant portions which are produced when toner particles are embedded in the toner image receiving layer.

The plasticizer may be dispersed as microparticles in the toner image receiving layer may be phase separated on the micro level as islands or may be completely mixed and dissolved in other components such as the binder.

The content of plasticizer in the toner image receiving layer is preferably 0.001 by mass to 90 by mass more preferably 0.1 by mass to 60 by mass and still more preferably 1 by mass to 40 by mass.

The plasticizer may be used for the purposes of adjusting slip properties improved transportability due to decrease in friction improving offset at a fixing part separation of toner or layers onto the fixing part adjusting curl balance or adjusting charge forming a toner electrostatic image .

The filler may be an organic or inorganic filler. Reinforcers for binder resins bulking agents and reinforcements known in the art may be used. This filler may be selected by referring to Handbook of Rubber and Plastics Additives ed. Rubber Digest Co. Plastics Blending Agents Basics and Applications New Edition Taisei Co. The Filler Handbook Taisei Co. or the like.

As the filler various inorganic fillers or pigments can be used. Examples of inorganic pigments include silica alumina titanium dioxide zinc oxide zirconium oxide micaceous iron oxide white lead lead oxide cobalt oxide strontium chromate molybdenum pigments smectite magnesium oxide calcium oxide calcium carbonate mullite and the like. Silica and alumina are particularly preferred. These fillers may be used either alone or in combination of two or more. It is preferred that the filler has a small particle diameter. If the particle diameter is large the surface of the toner image receiving layer tends to become rough.

Silica includes spherical silica and amorphous silica. The silica may be synthesized by the dry method wet method or aerogel method. The surface of the hydrophobic silica particles may also be treated by trimethylsilyl groups or silicone. Colloidal silica is preferred. The average particle diameter of the silica is preferably 4 nm to 120 nm and more preferably 4 nm to 90 nm.

The silica is preferably porous. The average pore volume per mass of porous silica is preferably 0.5 ml g to 3 ml g for example.

The alumina includes anhydrous alumina and hydrated alumina. Examples of crystallized anhydrous aluminas which may be used are or . Hydrated alumina is preferred to anhydrous alumina. The hydrated alumina may be a monohydrate or trihydrate. Monohydrates include pseudo boehmite boehmite and diaspore. Trihydrates include gibbsite and bayerite. The average particle diameter of alumina is preferably 4 nm to 300 nm and more preferably 4 nm to 200 nm. Porous alumina is preferred. The average pore size of porous alumina is preferably 50 nm to 500 nm. The average pore volume per mass of porous alumina is around 0.3 ml g to 3 ml g.

The alumina hydrate can be synthesized by the sol gel method in which ammonia is added to an aluminum salt solution to precipitate alumina or by hydrolysis of an alkali aluminate. Anhydrous alumina can be obtained by dehydrating alumina hydrate by the action of heat.

It is preferred that the filler is 5 by mass to 2000 by mass relative to the dry mass of the binder in the layer where the filler is to be added.

A crosslinking agent can be added in order to adjust the storage stability or thermoplastic properties of the toner image receiving layer. Examples of the crosslinking agent include compounds containing two or more reactive groups in the molecule such as an epoxy group an isocyanate group an aldehyde group an active halogen group an active methylene group an acetylene group and other reactive groups known in the art.

The crosslinking agent may also be a compound having two or more groups capable of forming bonds such as hydrogen bonds ionic bonds stereochemical bonds or the like.

The crosslinking agent may be a compound known in the art such as a coupling agent for resin curing agent polymerizing agent polymerization promoter coagulant film forming agent film forming assistant or the like. Examples of the coupling agents include chlorosilanes vinylsilanes epoxisilanes aminosilanes alkoxyaluminum chelates titanate coupling agents and the like. The examples further include other agents known in the art such as those mentioned in Handbook of Rubber and Plastics Additives ed. Rubber Digest Co. .

It is preferred that the toner image receiving layer of the present invention contains a charge control agent to adjust toner transfer and adhesion and to prevent charge adhesion. The charge adjusting agent may be any charge adjusting agent known in the art. Examples of the charge control agent include surfactants such as a cationic surfactant an anionic surfactant an amphoteric surfactant a nonionic surfactant or the like polymer electrolytes electroconducting metal oxides and the like. Examples include cationic charge inhibitors such as quaternary ammonium salts polyamine derivatives cation modified polymethylmethacrylate cation modified polystyrene or the like anionic charge inhibitors such as alkyl phosphates anionic polymers or the like and nonionic charge inhibitors such as polyethylene oxide or the like. The examples are not limited thereto however.

When the toner has a negative charge it is preferred that the charge adjusting agent blended with the toner image receiving layer is for example cationic or nonionic.

Examples of electroconducting metal oxides include ZnO TiO SnO AlO InO SiO MgO BaO MoO and the like. These electroconducting metal oxides may be used alone or may be used in the form of a complex oxide. Moreover the metal oxide may contain other elements. For example ZnO may contain Al In or the like TiOmay contain Nb Ta or the like and SnOmay contain or dope Sb Nb halogen elements or the like.

The materials used to obtain the toner image receiving layer of the present invention may also contain various additives to improve image stability when output or to improve stability of the toner image receiving layer itself. Examples of the additives used for these purposes include antioxidants age resistors degradation inhibitors anti ozone degradation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers metal complexes light stabilizers preservatives fungicides and the like.

Examples of the antioxidants include chroman compounds coumarane compounds phenol compounds for example hindered phenols hydroquinone derivatives hindered amine derivatives spiroindan compounds and the like. The antioxidants can be found for example in JP A No. 61 159644.

Examples of the age resistors can be found in Handbook of Rubber and Plastics Additives Second Edition 1993 Rubber Digest Co. pp 76 121.

Examples of the ultraviolet light absorbers include benzotriazo compounds described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 533 794 4 thiazolidone compounds described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 352 681 benzophenone compounds described in JP A No. 46 2784 ultraviolet light absorbing polymers described in JP A No. 62 260152 .

Examples of the metal complexes can be found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 241 155 4 245 018 4 254 195 and JP A Nos. 61 88256 62 174741 63 199248 01 75568 01 74272.

The ultraviolet light absorbers and the light stabilizers can be found in Handbook of Rubber and Plastics Additives Second Edition 1993 Rubber Digest Co. pp 122 137 may also be used.

Photographic additives known in the art may also be added to the material used to obtain the toner image receiving layer of the present invention as described above. Examples of the photographic additives can be found in the Journal of Research Disclosure hereafter referred to as RD No. 17643 December 1978 No. 18716 November 1979 and No. 307105 November 1989 . The relevant sections are shown below.

The toner image receiving layer of the present invention is formed by applying a coating solution which contains the polymer used for the toner image receiving layer with a wire coater or the like to the support and drying the coating solution. The coating solution is prepared by dissolving or uniformly dispersing an additive such as a thermoplastic polymer a plasticizer or the like into an organic solvent such as alcohol ketone or the like. The organic solvent used here may for example be methanol isopropyl alcohol methyl ethyl ketone or the like. If the polymer used for the toner image receiving layer is water soluble the toner image receiving layer can be prepared by applying an aqueous solution of the polymer to the support. Polymers which are not water soluble may be applied to the support in an aqueous dispersion.

The film forming temperature of the polymer used in the present invention is preferably room temperature or higher from the viewpoint of pre print storage and preferably 100 C. or lower from the viewpoint of fixing toner particles.

The toner image receiving layer of the present invention is coated so that the amount of coating in mass after drying is preferably 1 g mto 20 g m and more preferably 4 g mto 15 g m.

There is no particular limitation on the thickness of the toner image receiving layer. However it is preferably 1 m to 30 m and more preferably 2 m to 20 m.

It is preferred that the toner image receiving layer has a high degree of whiteness. This whiteness is measured by the method specified in JIS P 8123 and is preferably 85 or more. It is preferred that the spectral reflectance is 85 or more in the wavelength of 440 nm to 640 nm and that the difference between the maximum spectral reflectance and minimum spectral reflectance in this wavelength is within 5 . Further it is preferred that the spectral reflectance is 85 or more in the wavelength of 400 nm to 700 nm and that the difference between the maximum spectral reflectance and the minimum spectral reflectance in the wavelength is within 5 .

Specifically for the whiteness the value of L is preferably 80 or higher more preferably 85 or higher and still more preferably 90 or higher in a CIE 1976 L a b color space. The color tint of the white color is preferably as neutral as possible. Regarding the color tint of the whiteness the value of a b is preferably 50 or less more preferably 18 or less and still more preferably 5 or less in a L a b space.

It is preferred that the toner image receiving layer has a high surface gloss. The 45 gloss luster is preferably 60 or higher more preferably 75 or higher and still more preferably 90 or higher over the whole range from white where there is no toner to black where toner is densed at maximum.

However the gloss luster is preferably 110 or less. If it exceeds 110 the image has a metallic appearance which is undesirable.

It is preferred that the toner image receiving layer has a high smoothness. The arithmetic mean roughness Ra is preferably 3 m or less more preferably 1 m or less and still more preferably 0.5 m or less over the whole range from white where there is no toner to black where toner is densed at maximum.

It is preferred that the toner image receiving layer has one of the following physical properties more preferred that it has several of the following physical properties and most preferred that it has all of the following physical properties.

 1 Tg glass transition temperature of the toner image receiving layer is 30 C. or higher and Tg of the toner 20 C. or less.

 2 T1 2 a softening point measured by method of the toner image receiving layer is 60 C. to 200 C. and preferably 80 C. to 170 C. Herein the softening point measured by the method is measured using a special apparatus. The softening point is taken to be the temperature which is of the difference in piston strokes when flow starts and flow ends at various temperatures when the temperature is increased at a predetermined uniform rate after a residual heat time of for example 300 seconds at the initial set temperature e.g. 50 C. while applying a predetermined extrusion load under specific conditions.

 3 Tfb flow initiating temperature of the toner image receiving layer is 40 C. to 200 C. and Tfb of the toner image receiving layer is preferably Tfb of the toner 50 C. or less.

 4 The temperature at which the viscosity of the toner image receiving layer is 1 10cp is 40 C. or higher and lower than the corresponding temperature for the toner.

 5 At a fixing temperature of the toner image receiving layer the storage elasticity modulus G is 1 10Pa to 1 10Pa and the loss elasticity modulus G is 1 10Pa to 1 10Pa.

 6 The loss tangent G G which is the ratio of the loss elasticity modulus G and the storage elasticity modulus G at a fixing temperature of the toner image receiving layer is 0.01 to 10.

 7 The storage modulus G at a fixed temperature of the toner image receiving layer is 50 to 2500 relative to the storage elasticity modulus G at a fixing temperature of the toner.

 8 The inclination angle on the toner image receiving layer of the molten toner is 50 or less and particularly preferably 40 or less. The toner image receiving layer preferably satisfies the physical properties described in Japanese Patent No. 2788358 and JP A Nos. 07 248637 08 305067 and 10 239889.

Physical property 1 may be measured by a differential scanning calorimeter DSC . Physical properties 2 and 3 may be measured for example by Flow Tester CFT 500 or 500D manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation. Physical properties 5 to 7 may be measured using a rotating rheometer for example Dynamic Analyser RADII manufactured by Rheometric Scientific F.E.Ltd . Physical property 8 may be measured by the process disclosed in JP A No. 8 334916 using a Contact Angle Measurement Apparatus Kyowa Interface Science Co. LTD.

It is preferred that the surface electrical resistance of the toner image receiving layer is within the range of 1 10 cmto 1 10 cm under conditions of 25 C. 65 RH .

If the surface electrical resistance is less than 1 10 cm the toner amount transferred to the toner image receiving layer is insufficient and the density of the toner image obtained may be too low. On the other hand if the surface electrical resistance exceeds 1 10 cm more charge than necessary is produced during transfer. Therefore toner is transferred insufficiently image density is low and static electricity develops causing dust to adhere during handling of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet or misfeed overfeed discharge marks or toner transfer dropout may occur.

The surface electrical resistance of the surface on the opposite side of the support to the toner image receiving layer is preferably 5 10 cmto 3.2 10 cm and more preferably 1 10 cmto 1 10 cm.

In the present invention the aforesaid surface electrical resistances were measured based on JIS K 6911. The sample was left with air conditioning for 8 hours or more at a temperature of 20 C. and the humidity of 65 . Measurements were made using an R8340 manufactured by Advantest Ltd. under the same environmental conditions after giving an electric current for 1 minute at an applied voltage of 100V.

Other layers may include for example a surface protective layer backing layer contact improving layer intermediate layer underlayer cushion layer charge control inhibiting layer reflecting layer tint adjusting layer storage ability improving layer anti adhering layer anti curl layer smoothing layer and the like. These layers may be used either alone or in combination of two or more.

A surface protective layer is provided on the surface of the toner image receiving layer to protect the surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention to improve storage properties to improve ease of handling to facilitate writing to improve transferring within an equipment to confer anti offset properties or the like. The surface protective layer may comprise one layer or two or more layers. In the surface protective layer various thermoplastic resins or thermocuring resins may be used as binders and are preferably the same types of resins as those of the toner image receiving layer. However the thermodynamic properties and electrostatic properties are not necessarily identical to those of the toner image receiving layer and may be individually optimized.

The surface protective layer may comprise the various additives described above which can be used for the toner image receiving layer. In particular in addition to the releasing agents used in the present invention the surface protective layer may include other additives for example matting agents or the like. The matting agents may be any of those used in the related art.

From the viewpoint of fixing properties it is preferred that the outermost surface layer of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention which refers to for example the surface protective layer if formed has good compatibility with the toner. Specifically it is preferred that the contact angle with molten toner is for 0 to 40 .

It is preferred that in the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention a backing layer is provided on the opposite side of the support to the toner image receiving layer in order to confer undersurface output compatibility and to improve undersurface output image quality curl balance and transferring properties within equipment.

There is no particular limitation on the color of the backing layer. However if the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the invention is a double sided output image receiving sheet where an image is formed also on the undersurface it is preferred that the backing layer is also white. It is preferred that the whiteness and spectral reflectance are 85 or more as in the case of the upper surface.

To improve two sided output compatibility the backing layer may have an identical structure to that of the toner image receiving layer. The backing layer may comprise the various additives described hereintofore. Of these additives matting agents and charge control agents are particularly suitable. The backing layer may be a single layer or may have a laminated structure comprising two or more layers.

Further if releasing oil is used for the fixing roller or the like to prevent offset during fixing the backing layer may have oil absorbing properties.

In the electrostatic image receiving sheet of the present invention it is preferred to form a contact improving layer in order to improve the contact between the support and the toner image receiving layer. The contact improving layer may contain the various additives described above. Of those crosslinking agents are particularly preferred to be blended in the contact improving layer. Furthermore to improve accepting properties to toner it is preferred that the electrostatic image receiving sheet of the present invention further comprises a cushion layer between the contact improving layer and the toner image receiving layer.

An intermediate layer may be formed for example between the support and the contact improving layer the contact improving layer and the cushion layer the cushion layer and the toner image receiving layer or the toner image receiving layer and the storage improving layer. In an electrostatic image receiving sheet comprising a support a toner image receiving layer and an intermediate layer the intermediate layer may be provided for example between the support and toner image receiving layer.

If the tension of the polymer contained in the toner image receiving layer of the above electrophotographic image receiving sheet is higher than the tension of the toner and the difference is bigger than a certain amount transfer of toner to the image receiving sheet is satisfactory and the adhesion of the toner to the toner image receiving layer improves which is desirable. The surface tension of the polymer and the surface tension of the toner are measured at the toner fixing temperature. Under the measurement conditions the polymer and toner are in a molten state and the surface tension is measured by the pendant drop method the bubble pressure method or the like. For example in the case of the pendant drop method the polymer and toner are melted to become liquid at the toner fixing temperature and the polymer and toner are extruded from a needle to form liquid drops which are then analyzed and measured. In this case the tension of the polymer mN m and the tension of toner mN m satisfy the following relation 8 

Herein the polymer is one or more types of polymer contained in the toner image receiving layer. The polymer does not contain an additive of the additives of the toner image receiving layer.

Herein if the contact angle on the fixing belt surface is larger than the contact angle on the toner image receiving layer surface in the image receiving sheet and the difference is a certain value or more the image receiving sheet and fixing belt separate well toner offset and image receiving layer offset can be prevented and brilliance improves which is desirable. The contact angle may be measured for example with the static drop method using toner which is melted at the fixing temperature. A piece of toner hardened into a cube of about 2 mm square is placed on the image receiving layer surface which is heated to the toner fixing temperature and the contact angle when the toner is melted is measured. In this case the contact angle towards toner image receiving layer surface and the contact angle towards the fixing belt surface satisfy the following relation 10 and preferably satisfy the relation of 13.

If the surface free energy of the toner image receiving layer surface in an image receiving sheet is higher than the surface free energy in the fixing belt surface and the difference is more than a certain value separation of the toner image receiving layer and fixing belt is satisfactory offset of the non image part to which toner has not adhered does not occur and brilliance also improves which is desirable. Regarding surface free energy the contact angles and of the toner image receiving layer surface and the fixing belt surface are measured relative to two kinds of liquids i and j and a dispersibility component g a polar component g and a solid surface free energy G are calculated from the following expanded Fowks equation 

In the equation and are each the surface tensions of liquids i and j and are the dispersion force components of the surface tensions of liquids i and j. and are each the polar force components of liquids i and j which are eigenvalues of the liquids i and j respectively. and are each the contact angles of the liquids i and j. 

At this time the surface free energy G mN m of the surface of the toner image receiving layer and the surface free energy G mN m of the surface of the fixing belt satisfy the following equation III 10 III and preferably satisfy the relation of G G 15.

Further the value g mN m of the polar component of the surface free energy of the surface of the toner image receiving layer and the value g mN m of the polar component of the surface free energy of the surface of the fixing belt satisfy the following equation 0.3 and preferably satisfy the relation of g g 2.

Herein the surface of the toner image receiving layer means the surface of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention which is provided above the toner image receiving layer side.

There is no particular limitation on the thickness of the electrostatic image receiving sheet of the present invention. The thickness may be suitably selected according to the purpose. The thickness is preferably 50 m to 350 m and more preferably 100 m to 280 m.

In the electrostatic image receiving sheet of the present invention the toner image receiving layer receives toner during printing or copying.

The toner contains at least a binder resin and a colorant but may contain releasing agents and other components if necessary.

Examples of the binder resin include vinyl monopolyer of styrenes such as styrene parachlorostyrene or the like vinyl esters such as vinyl naphthalene vinyl chloride vinyl bromide vinyl fluoride vinyl acetate vinyl propioniate vinyl benzoate vinyl butyrate or the like methylene aliphatic carboxylates such as methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate n butyl acrylate isobutyl acrylate dodecyl acrylate n octyl acrylate 2 chloroethyl acrylate phenyl acrylate methyl chloroacrylate methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate butyl acrylate or the like vinyl nitriles such as acryloniotrile methacrylonitrile acrylamide or the like vinyl ethers such as vinyl methyl ether vinyl ethyl ether vinyl isobutyl ether or the like N vinyl compounds such as N vinyl pyrrole N vinylcarbazole N vinyl indole N vinyl pyrrolidone or the like and vinyl carboxylic acids such as methacrylic acid acrylic acid cinnamic acid or the like. These vinyl monomers may be used either alone or their copolymers may be used. In addition various polyesters may be used and various waxes may be used in combination.

Of these resins it is preferable to use a resin of the same type as the resin used for the toner image receiving television layer of the present invention.

The colorants generally used in the art can be used without limitation. Examples of the colorants include carbon black chrome yellow Hansa yellow benzidine yellow thuren yellow quinoline yellow permanent orange GTR pyrazolone orange Balkan orange watch young red permanent red brilliant carmin 3B brilliant carmin 6B dippon oil red pyrazolone red lithol red rhodamine B lake lake red C rose bengal aniline blue ultramarine blue chalco oil blue methylene blue chloride phthalocyanine blue phthalocyanine green malachite green oxalate or the like. Various dyes may also be added such as acridine xanthene azo benzoquinone azine anthraquinone thioindigo dioxadine thiadine azomethine indigo thioindigo phthalocyanine aniline black polymethine triphenylmethane diphenylmethane thiazine thiazole xanthene or the like. These colorants may be used either alone or in combination of a plurality of colorants.

It is preferred that the content of the colorant is 2 by mass to 8 by mass. If the content of colorant is more than 2 by mass the coloration does not become weaker. If it is 8 by mass or less transparency does not deteriorate.

The releasing agent may be in principle any of the waxes known in the art. Polar waxes containing nitrogen such as highly crystalline polyethylene wax having relatively low molecular weight Fischertropsch wax amide wax urethane wax and the like are particularly effective. For polyethylene wax it is particularly effective if the molecular weight is 1000 or less and is more preferably if the molecular weight is 300 to 1000.

Compounds containing urethane bonds have a solid state due to the strength of the cohesive force of the polar groups even if the molecular weight is low and as the melting point can be set high in view of the molecular weight they are suitable. The preferred molecular weight is 300 to 1000. The initial materials may be selected from various combinations such as a diisocyane acid compound with a mono alcohol a monoisocyanic acid with a mono alcohol dialcohol with mono isocyanic acid tri alcohol with a monoisocyanic acid and a triisocyanic acid compound with a mono alcohol. To prevent the increase of molecular weight it is preferred to use a combination of compounds with polyfunctional groups and monofunctional groups and it is important to use equivalent amounts of functional groups.

Among the initial materials examples of the monoisocyanic acid compounds are dodecyl isocyanate phenyl isocyanate and derivatives thereof naphthyl isocyanate hexyl isocyanate benzyl isocyanate butyl isocyanate allyl isocyanate and the like.

Examples of the diisocyanic acid compounds include tolylene diisocyanate 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate toluene diisocyanate 1 3 phenylene diisocyanate hexamethylene diisocyanate 4 methyl m phenylene diisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate and the like.

Examples of the mono alcohols include ordinary alcohols such as methanol ethanol propanol butanol pentanol hexanol heptanol and the like.

Among the initial materials examples of the di alcohols include numerous glycols such as ethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol trimethylene glycol or the like and examples of the tri alcohols include trimethylol propane triethylol propane trimethanolethane and the like. The present invention is not necessarily limited these examples however.

These urethane compounds may be mixed with the resin or the colorant during kneading as an ordinary releasing agent and used also as a kneaded crushed toner. Further in a case of using an emulsion polymerization cohesion scarification toner the urethane compounds may be dispersed in water together with an ionic surfactant polymer acid or polymer electrolyte such as a polymer base heated above the melting point and converted to fine particles by applying an intense shear in a homogenizer or pressure discharge dispersion machine to manufacture a releasing agent particle dispersion of 1 m or less which can be used together with a resin particle dispersion colorant dispersion or the like.

The toner of the present invention may also contain other components such as internal additives charge control agents inorganic particles or the like. Examples of the internal additives include metals such as ferrite magnetite reduced iron cobalt nickel manganesite or the like alloys or magnetic bodies such as compounds containing these metals.

Examples of the charge control agents include dyes such as quaternary ammonium salt nigrosine compounds dyes made from complexes of aluminum iron and chromium or triphenylmethane pigments. The charge control agent can be selected from the ordinary charge control agent. Materials which are hard to become solved in water are preferred from the viewpoint of controlling ionic strength which affects cohesion and stability during melting and the viewpoint of less waste water pollution.

The inorganic fine particles may be any of the external additives for toner surfaces generally used such as silica alumina titania calcium carbonate magnesium carbonate tricalcium phosphate or the like. It is preferred to disperse these with an ionic surfactant polymer acid or polymer base.

Surfactants can also be used for emulsion polymerization seed polymerization pigment dispersion resin particle dispersion releasing agent dispersion cohesion or stabilization thereof. Examples of the surfactants include anionic surfactants such as sulfuric acid ester salts sulfonic acid salts phosphoric acid esters soaps or the like cationic surfactants such as amine salts quaternary ammonium salts or the like. It is also effective to use non ionic surfactants such as polyethylene glycols alkylphenol ethylene oxide adducts polybasic alcohols or the like. These may generally be dispersed by a rotary shear homogenizer or a ball mill sand mill dyno mill or the like all of which contain the media.

The toner may also contain an external additive if necessary. Examples of the additive include inorganic powder organic particles and the like. Examples of the inorganic particles include SiO TiO AlO CuO ZnO SnO FeO MgO BaO CaO KO NaO ZrO CaO.SiO KO. TiO AlO.2SiO CaCO MgCO BaSO MgSO and the like. Examples of the organic particles include aliphatic acids derivatives thereof and the like powdered metal salts thereof and resin powders such as fluorine resin polyethylene resin acrylic resin or the like. The average particle diameter of the powder may be for example 0.01 m to 5 m and is more preferably 0.1 m to 2 m.

There is no particular limitation on the process of manufacturing the toner but it is preferably manufactured by a process comprising the steps of i forming cohesive particles in a dispersion of resin particles to manufacture a cohesive particle dispersion ii adding a fine particle dispersion to the aforesaid cohesive particle dispersion so that the fine particles adhere to the cohesive particles thus forming adhesion particles and iii heating the aforesaid adhesion particles which melt to form toner particles.

It is preferred that the volume average particle diameter of the toner of the present invention is from 0.5 m to 10 m.

If the volume average particle diameter of the toner is too small it may have an adverse effect on handling of the toner supplementation cleaning properties fluidability or the like and particle productivity may decline. On the other hand if the volume average particle damage is too large it may have an adverse effect on image quality and resolution due to granulariness and transfer properties.

It is preferred that the toner of the present invention satisfies the aforesaid toner volume average particle diameter range and that the volume average particle distribution index GSDv is 1.3 or less.

It is preferred that the ratio GSDv GSDn of the volume average polymer distribution index GSDv and the number average particle distribution index GSDn is at least 0.95.

It is preferred that the toner of the present invention satisfies the aforesaid volume average particle diameter range and that the average value of the formation coefficient expressed by the following equation is 1.00 to 1.50. Formation coefficient 4 

 where L is the maximum length of the toner particles and S is the projection surface area of a toner particle .

If the toner satisfies the above conditions it has a desirable effect on image quality and in particular granulariness and resolution. Also there is less risk of dropout and blur accompanying transfer and less risk of adverse effect on handling properties even if the average particle diameter is small.

The storage elasticity modulus G measured at an angular frequency of 10 rad sec of the toner itself at 150 C. is 10 Pa to 200 Pa which is suitable for improving image quality and preventing offset in a fixing step.

An image forming process according to the present invention comprises in a first aspect the step of forming a toner image on the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention the step of heating and pressuring a surface of the electrophotgrahic image receiving sheet on which the toner image is formed with a fixing bet and a roller and the step of cooling the surface so as to separate the surface from the fixing belt.

An image forming process comprises in a second aspect the step of forming a toner image on the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention the step of fixing the toner image with a heat roller the step of heating and pressuring a surface of the electrophotgrahic image receiving sheet on which the toner image is formed with a fixing bet and a roller and the step of cooling the surface so as to separate the surface from the fixing belt.

The process for transferring of the present invention employs ordinary processes employed in a process for electrophogography. Specifically one of the ordinary processes may be directly transferring a toner image formed on a development roller onto an electrophotographic image receiving sheet. The process may be the intermediate transfer belt type process where a toner image is first transferred onto an intermediate transfer belt and is then transferred onto an electrophotographic image receiving sheet. From the viewpoints of environment stability and higher quality image the intermediate transfer belt type process is more preferable.

Regarding the electrophotographic image receiving material of the present invention the toner transferred to the image receiving material is fixed on the image receiving material using an electrophotographic apparatus comprising a fixing belt. The belt fixing method may for example be the oilless type as described in JP A No. 11 352819 or the method where a second transfer and fixing are realized simultaneously as described in JP A Nos. 11 231671 and 05 341666. An electrophotographic apparatus comprising a fixing belt according to the present invention may be an electrophotographic apparatus comprising for example at least a heating and pressurizing part which can melt and pressurize the toner a fixing belt which can transfer the image receiving material with toner adhering while in contact with the toner image receiving layer and a cooling part which can cool the heated image receiving material while it is still adhering to the fixing belt. By using the electrophotographic image receiving material comprising the toner image receiving layer in the electrophotographic apparatus comprising the fixing belt toner adhering to the toner image receiving layer is fixed in fine detail without spreading into the image receiving material and the molten toner is cooled solidified while adhering closely to the fixing belt. The toner is received while it is completely embedded in the toner image receiving layer. Therefore there are no image discrepancies and a brilliant and smooth toner image is obtained.

The electrophotographic image receiving sheet formed in the present invention is particularly suitable for forming an image by the oilless belt fixing method and it permits a large improvement of offset. However other methods for forming an image may also likewise be used.

For example by using the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention a full color image can easily be formed while improving image quality and preventing crackings. A full color image can be formed using an electrophotographic apparatus capable of forming full color images. An ordinary electrophotographic apparatus comprises an image receiving paper transport part latent image forming part and developing part disposed in the vicinity of the latent image forming part. Depending on the type it may also comprise a latent image forming part in the center of the apparatus and a toner image intermediate transfer part in the vicinity of the image receiving paper transport part.

To improve image quality adhesive transfer or heat assistance transfer may be used instead of the electrostatic transfer or bias roller transfer or in conjunction therewith. Specific details of these methods are given for example in JP A Nos. 63 113576 and 05 341666. It is particularly preferred to use an intermediate transfer belt in the heat assistance transfer method. Also it is preferred to provide a cooling apparatus for the intermediate belt after toner transfer or in the latter half of transfer to the electrophotographic image receiving sheet. Due to this cooling apparatus the toner toner image is cooled to the softening temperature of the binder resin or the glass transition temperature of the toner 10 C. or less hence the image is transferred to the electrophotographic image receiving sheet efficiently and can be peeled away from the intermediate belt.

Fixing is an important step which influences the gloss and smoothness of the final image. The fixing method may be fixing by a heat and pressure roller or belt fixing using a belt but from the viewpoint of image quality such as gloss and smoothness belt fixing is preferred. Belt fixing methods known in the art include for example an oil less type of belt fixing described in JP A No. 11 352819 and the method where second transfer and fixing are realized simultaneously described in JP A Nos. 11 231671 and 05 341666. Further a first fixing may also be performed by a heat roller before the pressurizing and heating by the fixing belt and fixing roller.

The surface of the fixing belt may receive a surface treatment of a silicone compound fluorine compound or a combination thereof to prevent peeling of the toner and prevent offset of toner components. Also it is preferred to provide a belt cooling device in the latter half of fixing which ameliorates the peeling of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet. The cooling temperature is preferably the softening point or lower or the glass transition temperature 10 C. or lower of the toner binder resin and or the polymer in the toner image receiving layer of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet. On the other hand in the first stage of fixing the temperature of the toner image receiving layer or toner of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet must be raised to the temperature at which they become sufficiently softened. Specifically it is preferred in practice that the cooling temperature is 70 C. or less and 30 C. or more and that it is 180 C. or more and 100 C. or less in the initial stage of fixing.

Hereafter an example of the image forming apparatus having a typical fixing belt will be described referring into . It should however be understood that the present invention is not limited to the aspect shown in .

First a toner is transferred onto an electrophotographic image receiving sheet by an apparatus for forming an image which is not shown in . The image receiving sheet to which the toner adheres is transferred to a point A by a transferring mechanism which is not shown in and is transported between a heat roller and pressure roller and is thereby heated and pressurized to a temperature fixing temperature and pressure at which a toner image receiving layer of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet or the toner are sufficiently softened.

Herein the fixing temperature means the temperature of the toner image receiving layer surface measured at the position of the heat roller pressure roller and nip part at the point A and is for example 80 C. to 190 C. and more preferably 100 C. to 170 C. The pressure means the pressure of the toner image receiving layer surface measured at the heat roller pressure roller and nip part and is for example 1 kg cmto 10 kg cm and more preferably 2 kg cmto 7 kg cm. While the electrophotographic image receiving sheet is thus heated and pressurized and is transported to the cooling apparatus by a fixing belt a releasing agent not shown in which was present dispersed in the toner image receiving layer is sufficiently heated so as to become melted and is transferred onto a surface of the toner image receiving layer. The transferred releasing agent forms a layer film of releasing agent on the surface of the toner image receiving layer. Thereafter the electrophotographic image receiving sheet is transported to the cooling apparatus with the fixing belt and is cooled for example to the softening point of the binder resin or lower or the glass transition temperature 10 C. or lower of the binder resin used in the polymer and or toner of the toner image receiving layer which is preferably 20 C. to 80 C. and more preferably room temperature 25 C. . In this way the layer film of releasing agent formed on the surface of the toner image receiving layer is cooled and solidified and a releasing agent layer is formed due to change in the releasing agent inside the toner image receiving layer.

The cooled electrophotographic image receiving sheet is then transported to the point B by the fixing belt and the fixing belt is spanned around and is rotated by a tension roller . Therefore at the point B the electrophotographic image receiving sheet and fixing belt become separated. It is preferred to have a smaller diameter of the tension roller so that the electrophotographic image receiving sheet separates from the belt with its own rigidity strength .

The image forming process to form an image on the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention is not limited to the process shown in as long as it is an electrophotographic process using a fixing belt. Hence any of the ordinary electrophotographic methods may be used.

For example a color image may suitably be formed on the electrophotographic image receiving sheet of the present invention. A color image can be formed using an electrophotographic apparatus which permits forming a full color image. An ordinary electrophotographic apparatus comprises an image receiving sheet transport part latent image forming part and developing part disposed in the vicinity of the latent image forming part. Depending on the type it may also comprise in the center of the apparatus a toner image intermediate transfer part in the vicinity of a latent image forming part and an image receiving sheet transport part.

To improve image quality adhesive transfer or heat assistance transfer methods may be used instead of electrostatic transfer bias roller transfer or in combination of the heat assistance transfer methods the electrostatic transfer and or bias roller transfer. The detailed structures are described for example in JP A Nos. 63 113576 and 05 341666. The intermediate transfer belt in the heat assistance transfer method is particularly preferred when small particle diameter toner is used.

According to the image forming process of the present invention peeling of the image receiving sheet and toner or offset of the image receiving sheet and toner components can be prevented even if an oilless machine providing no fixing oil is used. A stable paper provision can be realized and a good image with more gloss than ever and a plenty of photographic features can be obtained.

The present invention will now be described referring to the detailed examples but it should be understood that the present invention is not be limited to the following Examples.

In the following examples and comparative examples and parts each refer to by mass and part s by mass. 

Image receiving sheets for electrophotography of the Examples 1 to 14 and Comparative Examples 1 to 3 were prepared as the following manner.

A support A was manufactured as follows Water dispersible anatase titanium dioxide was internally added to have a content of 1.1 g m and a high quality paper manufactured so that the center line average roughness was 1.2 m basic weight of pulp tissue 160 g m . Using the high quality paper as a raw paper high density polyethylene MI 10 g 10 minutes density 0.950 g cm containing 1.1 g mof rutile titanium dioxide was extruded onto the back surface by a coating method 310 C. so as to form a back polyethylene layer having a thickness of 15 m.

A 1 1 mass ratio blend containing 3.0 g manatase titanium dioxide of high density polyethylene MI 8 g 10 minutes density 0.950 g cm and low density polyethylene MI 7 g 10 minutes density 0.923 g cm was extruded by the coating method on the top surface of the high quality paper so as to form a layer which has polyethylene on its surface having a thickness of 13 m.

Corona charge treatment was given to the polyethylene layers on the top and back surfaces of supports A and B shown in Table 2. The undercoat composition below was prepared and applied to the top surface by a wire coater so as to give a thickness after drying of 0.1 m. The back layer composition below was prepared and applied to the back surface by a wire coater so that the amount of coating after drying was 4.5 g m.

Examples 1 to 14 and Comparative Examples 1 to 3 were manufactured by coating the following toner image receiving compositions A and B on the top surface undercoat by a wire coater so as to give the amount of coating after drying of 5.5 g m using the releasing agents in Table 2. Therefore in the Examples and the Comparative Examples the layer forming the electrophotographic image receiving sheet surface is a toner image receiving layer containing a predetermined releasing agent.

The fixing belt was an endless belt comprising a polyimide film as a base material. The polyimide film was coated by the following materials so as to have a thickness of 35 m.

Endless belt coated by HTV silicone rubber with a hardness of 40 JIS A so as to have a thickness of 35 m.

Silicone crosslinked fluorinated polyether SIFEL registered trademark manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. 

First an electrophotographic image receiving sheet was cut so as to have a width of 10 cm and a length of 20 cm. A fixing belt was cut so as to have a width of 10 cm and a length of 20 cm. The fixing belt surface and electrophotographic image receiving sheet surface on the toner image receiving layer side of the support of the electrophotographic image receiving sheet were brought in contact to obtain a sample. Next this sample was transported between two pairs of rollers both of which surfaces were coated with perfluoroalkyl vinyl ether copolymer had diameter of 40 mm and a length of 30 cm at a nip pressure of 100 kg and a velocity of 30 mm second so that the fixing belt surface and the electrophotographic image receiving sheet surface on the toner image receiving layer side of the support become stuck together. Thereafter the stuck sample was fixed on a hot plate 90 C. or 50 C. with the electrophotographic image receiving sheet underneath and heated for 30 minutes.

After confirming that the surface of the central part of the sample had reached 90 C. or 50 C. one end of the fixing belt was chucked and was separated at a velocity of 30 mm second so that the angle of the fixing belt and the separating direction X became 90 . At this time the force applied in the separating direction X was measured using a FORCE GAGE manufactured by NIDEC SIMPO Corporation FCG 2 .

An image was formed using an electrophotographic image receiving sheet manufactured according to the above Examples and Comparative Examples and the fixing belt electrophotography apparatus shown in . Glossiness offset resistance transport properties and deterioration of brilliance in the long run were measured.

The images for printing included a white solid image a gray image R G B 50 of image a black image black 100 and an image of a female portrait. The color laser printer DocuPrint C 620 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Corporation was used as the apparatus for electrophotography except that an apparatus having one of the fixing belts A to C was used.

In this fixing belt a transport velocity of the fixing belt was 30 mm second a nip pressure between the heat roller and the pressure roller was 0.2 Mpa 2 kgf cm . A temperature of the heat roller was set at 155 C. which was the fixing temperature. The electrophotographic image receiving sheet was cooled down to 60 C. or lower when separated from the fixing belt .

The electrophotographic image receiving sheet was cut to A4 size. The electrophotographic image receiving sheet was set in a color laser printer DocuPrint C 620 manufactured by Fuji Xerox Corporation and an image from a computer was printed. Four types of images including a white image a gray R G B 50 of image image a black image and a female portrait were printed.

The above mentioned electrophotographic image receiving sheet was transported in the apparatus in an environment at 80 RH at 30 C. When the sheet was transported normally on the fixing part the presence or absence of shell like unevenness on the surface of the image was evaluated according to the following criteria. The results are shown in Table 3. In the present invention or better is the level permitted in practice.

100 of the electrophotographic image receiving sheets were continuously supplied using the above printer and the sum of sheets with defects of supplying jamming and poor lamination was counted. The results are shown in Table 3. In the present invention 2 or less is the level permitted in practice.

Brilliance was evaluated by observing the surface state of the toner image receiving layer before and after printing. expresses a good brilliance surface expresses slight unevenness which is not very noticeable after printing and x expresses unevenness which remains even after printing. The results are shown in Table 3.

10 000 sheets were continuously supplied and the decrease in brilliance evaluated according to the following criteria. The results are shown in Table 3.

The surface tension of the polymer used for the toner image receiving layer in the Examples and Comparative Examples listed for the above toner image receiving layer composition and the surface tension of the toner were measured by the pendant drop method using a PD Z manufactured by Kyowa Interface Science Co. LTD. with thermostat . Specifically this was done by melting the polymer and toner at the toner fixing temperatures of 130 C. 150 C. and 180 C. to liquefy it extruding from a needle and analyzing the form of the liquid drops. The density of the polymer and toner was taken as 1. The results are shown in Table 6. Cyan toner an aggregated and melted toner having an average particle diameter of 6.5 m was employed as the toner. In Table 6 the difference in the surface tension mN m is the value of surface tension of the polymer used surface tension of toner at each toner fixing temperature.

The contact angles of the surface of the toner image receiving layer in the image receiving sheet and the contact angle of the surface of the fixing belt in the Examples and Comparative Examples were measured using a contact angle meter CA A manufactured by Kyowa Interface Science Co. LTD. The contact angle was measured after placing the toner on the surface of the toner image receiving layer or the surface of the fixing belt and melting at the toner fixing temperature of 130 C. and 180 C. The result are shown in Table 5. In Table 5 the difference in the contact angle is the value of contact angle of the surface of the fixing belt contact angle of the surface of the toner image receiving layer at each toner fixing temperature.

Cyan toner an aggregated and melted toner having an average particle diameter of 6.51 m was employed as the toner.

The surface free energy of the surface of the toner image receiving layer in the image receiving sheet and the surface free energy of the surface of the fixing belt in the Examples and Comparative Examples were measured using a contact angle meter CA A manufactured by Kyowa Interface Science Co. LTD. First water and methylene iodide were used as probe solution. These solutions were placed on the above mentioned surface of the toner image receiving layer or on the surface of the fixing belt. The contact angle was measured in the atmosphere of 25 C. 55 RH. The value of the contact angle obtained was substituted in the expanded Fowks equation and the dispersibility component g and polar component g were calculated. Herein the dispersibility component and the polar component of surface tension of each solutions are values specific to each solutions. For example the values given in the Journal of the Institute of Fibers of Japan 38 4 and T 147 1982 were employed. According to thus obtained dispersibility component g and polar component g the solid surface free energy G was calculated by the expanded Fowks equation. The results are shown in Table 6.

In the table the difference in the surface free energy mN m is the value of surface free energy of the surface of the toner image receiving layer surface free energy of the surface of the fixing belt .

From the results shown in Table 3 the surface of the image receiving sheet shown in the examples of the present invention did not have roughness or image defects and its brittleness was also good.

All of the samples could be transported in the apparatus when printed by commercial color laser printers such as full color laser printers DC 2220 DCC 400CP 320CP DCC 500CP manufactured by Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. color copiers DocuColor 5750 manufactured by Xerox Corporation LP 8000C by Seiko Epson Coration COLOR PAGEPRESTO N4 ST by Casio Denshi Kogyo. Co. Ltd. COLOR LASER SHOT LBP 2030 by Canon Inc. Japan magicolor 2 by Minolta QMS K. K. Color LaserBitKL 2010 by Konica Corporation JX 8200 by SHARP Corporation BEAMSTAR RW by Hitachi Ltd. or Color Page Pro PS by Minolta Co. Ltd. Identical results to those of Table 3 were obtained.

According to the present invention by combining a specific materials for belt with the wax material of the toner image receiving layer a electrophotographic image receiving sheet is obtained which gives less soiling of the belt during transfer much improved long run properties ability to be transported in an oil less machine without fixing oil and excellent brilliance as well as a photographic features.

