---

title: Wet mop with multi-layer substrate
abstract: A wet mop head assembly for use with a mop handle is disclosed. The mop head includes a laminate mop substrate having a first layer of scrubbing material, a second layer of scrubbing material and an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between the scrubbing material layers. At least one bond is present to join the scrubbing and absorbent foam layers together.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07624468&OS=07624468&RS=07624468
owner: Kimberly-Clark Worldwide, Inc.
number: 07624468
owner_city: Neenah
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060718
---
Various versions of wet mops are available to work on surfaces such as floors. Such mops are used to absorb liquids put or spilled on such floors sanitize or disinfect surfaces apply protective coatings and to clean such surfaces. One common function of such mops is to absorb liquid that is present on a surface such as a floor. Cotton string mops are commonly available and work very well at such purposes. Sponges and other synthetic materials have also been used to absorb liquids.

Another common purpose for such mops is to release a liquid substance to a surface. Sponge mops and polymeric foam mops are commonly used for such purposes as such materials are excellent at absorbing liquid into their structures and then releasing the same liquid substance when pressure is applied to the material. For example a floor polish or wax is often applied to a floor by a sponge mop.

Scrubbing of a surface is yet another common purpose for mops. Dirt debris and stains on a floor are often cleaned up with a mop usually in working cooperation with water cleansers degreasers soaps and the like. Cottons string mops work very well at scrubbing a surface and picking of dirt and debris from a floor. However when such mops are wrung out the cotton string mop retains some dirt within its structure and appears dirty even after its first rinsing dunk in the rinse bucket.

Sponges and polymeric foams do not work as well for scrubbing purposes as they have very little scrub resistance upon scrubbing pieces of the sponge are often torn from or otherwise break apart from the sponge. Similarly polymeric foam mops have excellent absorbency and liquid release but have the same issues of low abrasion resistance as typical sponge mops. Such poor abrasion resistance results in replacement of such mop substrates on a regular basis and may require additional cleaning of mop pieces that have broken off of the substrate. Some have tried to address this problem by coating such sponges with latex texturing to improve the scrub resistance.

Another issue with cotton strip mops or other such mops is with release of active components from cleansers disinfectants and sanitizers. One common active ingredient in many disinfectants are quaternary ammonium chlorides which are commonly referred to as quats . The problem is that a substrate may deplete 10 60 of the active quat from the disinfectant depending on the materials making up the construction of the substrate. The active quats are adsorbed on to the surface of the substrate. For example a cotton substrate can deplete 60 from active quat from a quat based disinfectant solution introduced to such a substrate. This reduction of active quats in a disinfectant solution decreases the effectiveness of the solution to kill harmful micro organisms.

Many sponge and polymeric foam mops do a better job of releasing such active ingredients back to the surface being cleaned rather than adsorbing the active ingredients upon the surface of the substrate. However as already mentioned sponge and polymeric foam mops have lower abrasion resistance than most cotton string or other fibrous mops.

As used herein the term fasteners means devices that fasten join connect secure hold or clamp components together. Fasteners include but are not limited to screws nuts and bolts rivets snap fits tacks nails loop fasteners and interlocking male female connectors such as fishhook connectors a fish hook connector includes a male portion with a protrusion on its circumference. Inserting the male portion into the female portion substantially permanently locks the two portions together.

As used herein the term couple includes but is not limited to joining connecting fastening linking or associating two things integrally or interstitially together.

As used herein the term configure s configured or configuration s means to design arrange set up or shape with a view to specific applications or uses. For example a military vehicle that was configured for rough terrain configured the computer by setting the system s parameters.

As used here the term operable or operably means being in a configuration such that use or operation is possible. Similarly operably connect s or operably connected refers to the relation of elements being so configured that a use or an operation is possible through their cooperation. For example the machine is operable the wheel is operably connected to the axle.

As used herein the term hinge refers to a jointed or flexible device that connects and permits pivoting or turning of a part to a stationary component. Hinges include but are not limited to metal pivotable connectors such as those used to fasten a door to frame and living hinges. Living hinges may be constructed from plastic and formed integrally between two members. A living hinge permits pivotable movement of one member in relation to another connected member.

As used herein the term substantially refers to something which is done to a great extent or degree for example substantially covered means that a thing is at least 95 covered.

As used herein the term alignment refers to the spatial property possessed by an arrangement or position of things in a straight line or in parallel lines.

As user herein the terms orientation or position used interchangeably herein refer to the spatial property of a place where or way in which something is situated for example the position of the hands on the clock. 

As used herein the term cell refers to a cavity contained in foam. A cell is closed when the cell membrane surrounding the cavity or enclosed opening is not perforated and has all membranes intact. Cell connectivity occurs when at least one wall of the cell membrane surrounding the cavity has orifices or pores that connect to adjacent cells such that an exchange of fluid is possible between adjacent cells.

As used herein the term compression refers to the process or result of pressing by applying force on an object thereby increasing the density of the object.

As used herein the term elastomer refers to material having elastomeric or rubbery properties. Elastomeric materials such as thermoplastic elastomers are generally capable of recovering their shape after deformation when the deforming force is removed. Specifically as used herein elastomeric is meant to be that property of any material which upon application of an elongating force permits that material to be stretchable to a stretched length which is at least about 25 percent greater than its relaxed length and that will cause the material to recover at least 40 percent of its elongation upon release of the stretching elongating force. A hypothetical example which would satisfy this definition of an elastomeric material in the X Y planar dimensions would be a one 1 inch 2.54 cm sample of a material which is elongatable to at least 1.25 inches 3.18 cm and which upon being elongated to 1.25 inches 3.18 cm and released will recover to a length of not more than 1.15 inches 2.92 cm . Many elastomeric materials may be stretched by much more than 25 percent of their relaxed length and many of these will recover to substantially their original relaxed length upon release of the stretching elongating force. In addition to a material being elastomeric in the described X Y planar dimensions of a structure including a web or sheet the material can be elastomeric in the Z planar dimension. Specifically when a structure is applied compression it displays elastomeric properties and will essentially recover to its original position upon relaxation. Compression set is sometimes used to describe such elastic recovery.

As used herein the term open cell refers to any cell that has at least one broken or missing membrane or a hole in a membrane.

As used herein the term plasticizing agent refers to a chemical agent that can be added to a rigid polymer to add flexibility to rigid polymers. Plasticizing agents typically lower the glass transition temperature.

As used herein the term polymer generally includes but is not limited to homopolymers copolymers including block graft random and alternating copolymers terpolymers etc. and blends and modifications thereof. Furthermore unless otherwise specifically limited the term polymer shall include all possible molecular geometrical configurations of the material. These configurations include but are not limited to isotactic syndiotactic and atactic symmetries.

As used herein the term surfactant is a compound such as detergents and wetting agents that affects the surface tension of fluids.

As used herein the term thermoplastic is meant to describe a material that softens and or flows when exposed to heat and which substantially returns to its original hardened condition when cooled to room temperature.

As used herein the terms nonwoven fabric nonwoven material or nonwoven web means a web having a structure of individual fibers or threads which are interlaid but not in an identifiable manner as in a knitted fabric. Nonwoven fabrics or webs have been formed from many processes such as for example meltblowing processes spunbonding processes and bonded carded web processes. The basis weight of nonwoven fabrics is usually expressed in ounces of material per square yard osy or grams per square meter g mor gsm and the fiber diameters useful are usually expressed in microns. Note that to convert from osy to gsm multiply osy by 33.91 .

As used herein the term microfibers means small diameter fibers having an average diameter not greater than about 75 microns for example having an average diameter of from about 0.5 microns to about 50 microns or more particularly microfibers may have an average diameter of from about 2 microns to about 25 microns. Another frequently used expression of fiber diameter is denier which is defined as grams per 9000 meters of a fiber and may be calculated as fiber diameter in microns squared multiplied by the density in grams cc multiplied by 0.00707. A lower denier indicates a finer fiber and a higher denier indicates a thicker or heavier fiber. For example the diameter of a polypropylene fiber given as 15 microns may be converted to denier by squaring multiplying the result by 0.89 g cc and multiplying by 0.00707. Thus a 15 micron polypropylene fiber has a denier of about 1.42 152 0.89 0.00707 1.415 . Outside the United States the unit of measurement is more commonly the tex which is defined as the grams per kilometer of fiber. Tex may be calculated as denier 9.

As used herein the term spunbond spunbonded and spunbonded filaments refers to small diameter continuous filaments which are formed by extruding a molten thermoplastic material as filaments from a plurality of fine usually circular capillaries of a spinnerette with the diameter of the extruded filaments then being rapidly reduced as by for example eductive drawing and or other well known spun bonding mechanisms. The production of spunbonded nonwoven webs is illustrated in patents such as for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 340 563 to Appel et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 3 692 618 to Dorschner et al. The disclosures of these patents are hereby incorporated by reference.

As used herein the term meltblown means fibers formed by extruding a molten thermoplastic material through a plurality of fine usually circular die capillaries as molten threads or filaments into converging high velocity gas e.g. air streams which attenuate the filaments of molten thermoplastic material to reduce their diameter which may be to microfiber diameter. Thereafter the meltblown fibers are carried by the high velocity gas stream and are deposited on a collecting surface to form a web of randomly dispersed meltblown fibers. Such a process is disclosed in various patents and publications including NRL Report 4364 Manufacture of Super Fine Organic Fibers by B. A. Wendt E. L. Boone and D. D. Fluharty NRL Report 5265 An Improved Device For The Formation of Super Fine Thermoplastic Fibers by K. D. Lawrence R. T. Lukas J. A. Young and U.S. Pat. No. 3 849 241 issued Nov. 19 1974 to Butin et al.

As used herein the term bonded carded webs refers to webs that are made from staple fibers which are usually purchased in bales. The bales are placed in a fiberizing unit picker which separates the fibers. Next the fibers are sent through a combining or carding unit which further breaks apart and aligns the staple fibers in the machine direction so as to form a machine direction oriented fibrous non woven web. Once the web has been formed it is then bonded by one or more of several bonding methods. One bonding method is powder bonding wherein a powdered adhesive is distributed throughout the web and then activated usually by heating the web and adhesive with hot air. Another bonding method is pattern bonding wherein heated calender rolls or ultrasonic bonding equipment is used to bond the fibers together usually in a localized bond pattern through the web and or alternatively the web may be bonded across its entire surface if so desired. When using bi component staple fibers through air bonding equipment is for many applications especially advantageous.

As used herein multilayer laminate means a laminate wherein one or more of the layers may be spunbond and or meltblown such as a spunbond meltblown spunbond SMS laminate and others as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 041 203 to Brock et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 169 706 to Collier et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 145 727 to Potts et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 178 931 to Perkins et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 188 885 to Timmons et al. Such a laminate may be made by sequentially depositing onto a moving forming belt first a spunbond fabric layer then a meltblown fabric layer and last another spunbond layer and then bonding the laminate in a manner described below. Alternatively the fabric layers may be made individually collected in rolls and combined in a separate bonding step. Such fabrics usually have a basis weight of from about 0.1 to 12 osy 6 to 400 gsm or more particularly from about 0.40 to about 3 osy. Multilayer laminates for many applications also have one or more film layers which may take many different configurations and may include other materials like foams tissues woven or knitted webs and the like.

As used herein the term continuous filaments refers to strands of continuously formed polymeric filaments having a length to diameter ratio of at least about a thousand and usually much higher. Such filaments will typically be formed by extruding molten material through a die head having a certain type and arrangement of capillary holes therein.

As used herein the term staple fiber refers to a fiber that has been formed or cut to a staple lengths of generally 20 centimeters or less.

The term pulp as used herein refers to fibers from natural sources such as woody and non woody plants. Woody plants include for example deciduous and coniferous trees. Non woody plants include for example cotton flax esparto grass milkweed straw jute hemp and bagasse.

In light of the problems and issues discussed above it is desired to have a wet mop substrate that has excellent absorptive and scrub resistant characteristics.

The present invention is directed to a wet mop head assembly than may be used with a mop handle. The mop head includes a laminate mop substrate coupled to a head mount where the head mount may be used to couple to a mop handle. The laminate mop substrate includes a first layer of scrubbing material a second layer of scrubbing material and an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between the scrubbing material layers. At least one bond is present to join the scrubbing and absorbent foam layers together.

In some embodiments the laminate mop substrate includes a sheet having a pair of opposed end edges a pair of opposed side edges a mounting section extending transversely across the sheet between opposed side edges and positioned centrally between the opposed end edges and a plurality of substrate strips positioned on both sides of the mounting section and extending from the mounting section. Each of such substrate strips have a pair of opposed strip side edges and a strip free end edge. The plurality of substrate strips are positioned next to each other and aligned side by side along the substrate side edges. The first layer of scrubbing material the absorbent foam layer and the second layer of scrubbing material of each of the plurality of substrate strips are joined together by at least one bond on each of the plurality of substrate strips. Finally the head mount of the mop head is coupled to the mounting section of the sheet.

In other embodiments the laminate mop substrate includes a plurality of individual substrate strips. Each of the strips includes a pair of opposed strip side edges a pair of opposed strip end edges and a mounting aperture positioned centrally between the opposed strip edges. The first and second layers of scrubbing material and the absorbent foam layer sandwiched therebetween are joined together by at least one bond on each of the plurality of substrate strips. Finally the head mount of the mop head is coupled to the mounting aperture of each of the plurality of substrate strips.

In various embodiments the bond s joining the first and second layer of scrubbing material and the absorbent foam layer may be positioned along the center of the substrate strips between the strip side edges. In other embodiments the bond s joining such layers may be positioned along the strip side edges of the substrate strips. In further embodiments the mop head may include substrate strips having bond s joining the layers along the center of the substrate strip and other substrate strips having bond s joining the layers along the strip side edges.

In various embodiments the first layer of scrubbing material may include a nonwoven material. The scrubbing material of the first layer may include a high pulp content hydraulically entangled nonwoven composite fabric having from about 1 to about 25 percent by weight of a continuous filament nonwoven fibrous web and more than about 70 percent by weight of a fibrous material consisting of pulp fibers.

In various embodiments the absorbent foam layer may include an open cell absorbent thermoplastic foam. In other embodiments the absorbent foam layer may include an absorbent thermoset foam.

In various embodiments at least one of the layers of the mop substrate may additionally include a functional substance that may be transferred to the surface upon which the mop substrate is to be used. Such a functional substrate may be a surfactant a cleanser a soap a degreaser a disinfectant a sanitizer a surface protective wax a glass cleaner a surface polish an insecticide or other such substances that may be usefully incorporated into the mop substrate.

In some embodiments the assembly may include a mop handle releaseably engaged with a socket mount on the mop head assembly. The mop handle may be a quick release handle including a proximal end proximate to the mop head and a distal end distal to the mop head a quick release coupling assembly positioned on the proximate end of the handle the quick release coupling assembly configured to releaseably couple the handle to the head mount and a button actuator positioned on the distal end of the handle the button actuator operably connected to the quick release coupling assembly. Additionally in various embodiments the handle may additionally include a coupler shroud that cooperatively couples with the head mount the button actuator may be recessed within the end of the shaft and the handle may include an ergonomic freely rotating knob.

The present invention is also directed to a multi layer laminate substrate that may be used with a cleaning article. The substrate includes a strip having a pair of opposed strip side edges and a pair of opposed strip end edges. The strip has a first side including a first layer of scrubbing material and has a first face that may come into contact with a surface the upon which the cleaning article it to be used. The strip also has a second side including a second layer of scrubbing material and has a second face that may come into contact with a surface the upon which the cleaning article it to be used. Finally the strip has an absorbent foam layer positioned between the first side and the second side such that the first face and the second face of the strip are outwardly facing. The first side the absorbent foam layer and the second side are joined together by at least one or more bonds extending between the opposing strip side edges such that portions of the absorbent foam layer a exposed at the strip side edges.

In some embodiments the plurality of such strips are coupled with a head mount which may coupled to a handle. Additionally the plurality of strips may include a mounting surface positioned centrally between the opposed strip end edges and the head mount may be coupled to the mounting surface of each of the plurality of strips. In some embodiments the plurality of such strips may be arranged such that the mounting surfaces are superimposed. In other embodiments the plurality of strips are positioned next to each other and aligned side by side along strip side edges in such a way that the mounting surfaces of the plurality of strips are aligned.

Reference will now be made in detail to one or more embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each example and embodiment is provided by way of explanation of the invention and is not meant as a limitation of the invention. For example features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used with another embodiment to yield still a further embodiment. It is intended that the invention include these and other modifications and variations as coming within the scope and spirit of the invention.

Referring to in general the wet mop assembly of the present invention uses a multi layer laminate mop substrate coupled with a head mount which may be coupled to a handle when in use. The mop substrate is designed to provide the mop with a high degree of absorbency and substance release along with good abrasion resistance.

The mop substrate is a multi layer laminate that includes at least two layers of scrubbing material and an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between the scrubbing material layers . The absorbent foam layer is made of an absorbent foam material that has excellent absorbency and liquid release characteristics. However such absorbent foams have poor abrasion resistance. The scrubbing material layers have good abrasion resistance and are positioned on either side of the absorbent foam layer and provide some degree of protection to the absorbent foam layer when the mop substrate is in use.

One example of a mop head assembly using such a mop substrate is illustrated in . The mop substrate may be a sheet including a pair of opposed side edges and a pair of opposed end edges . The sheet is shown as generally rectangular in shape but may be any shape symmetrical or asymmetrical the meets the cleaning needs of the user. The sheet has a first side and an opposite second side . As illustrated in the first side of the sheet corresponds to a face of one of the layers of scrubbing material similarly the second side of the sheet corresponds to a face of the other layer of scrubbing material .

A mounting section is centrally located between the opposing end edges and transversely spans the sheet from one sheet edge to the opposing sheet edge . The mounting section is configured to couple the mop substrate to the head mount . Mounting apertures may be included in the mounting section to mate with mounting attachments on the head mount . Such mounting attachments may be any fastener capable of coupling the mop substrate to the head mount and holding the mop substrate securely to the mop head during use. Non limiting examples of such mounting attachment may include screws rivets buttons clips adhesives hook and loop fasteners or other similar fasteners as are well known.

The sheet is cut to produce a plurality of substrate strips positioned on either side of the mounting section and extending from the mounting section . The sheet is cut along the cut lines to produce the substrate strips . Thus each substrate strip will be made up of a pair of scrubbing material layers with an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between the scrubbing material layers . Further each substrate strip will have a pair of opposed strip side edges created along the cut lines and a strip free end edge .

The substrate strips may be cut along the cut lines by any of such methods as are well known. By way of non limiting example the substrate strips may be cut along the cut lines by a die cut shears water jet cutting ultrasonics rotary blade or other similar method as are known.

As shown in when the head mount is coupled to such a cut sheet the substrate strips will hang down from the mounting section much like how the cotton strings hang down on a traditional cotton string mop. In use when the mop head is picked up see the first side of the sheet will be presented as the outermost surface of the mop head and the second side of the sheet will face itself on the interior of the mop head . During use the mop head may be used in the folded configuration shown in or may also be used in a flat configuration such as shown in .

The mounting section is shown in as centrally located on the substrate sheet . In such a position between the opposing sheet end edges the substrate strips extending for such a mounting section will generally be equal in length and the mop head will be substantially symmetrical about a center line extending between the opposed sheet side edges half way between the opposed sheet end edges . This is one example of a possible sheet substrate other configurations may be possible. By way of non limiting examples of alternate configurations the sheet may be cut such that substrate strips have different lengths the mounting section may be positioned closer to one sheet end edge that the other to produce an asymmetric sheet or some other particular configuration that meets the specific cleaning needs of the user.

Additionally bands may be coupled to the sheet proximate to the sheet end edges . Such bands often referred to as janitor wish bands are well known and readily available to help prevent the individual substrate strips from becoming tangled during use of the mop head . Such a band may be coupled to the sheet by stitching ultrasonic bonds adhesives or other such fastening means as are well known.

The sheet may be any size as desired by the user and that meets the particular cleaning needs. Typically the sheet will have a width the distance between the sheet side edges between about 6 inches 152 mm and about 24 inches 610 mm and will have a length the distance between the sheet end edges between about 12 inches 305 mm and about 48 inches 1.22 m although other sizes are possible.

The substrate strips may be cut within the sheet to have a width the distance between the strip side edges of between about 0.5 inches 12.7 mm and about 4 inches 102 mm although other strip widths are possible. The substrate strips are shown in as generally uniform in their width. However the substrate strips may have different individual widths across the width of the sheet .

The length of the substrate strips is dependent on the length of the sheet the size of the mounting section and the length of the cut lines . For example if the sheet is 36 inches 914 mm in length and the mounting section utilizes 2 inches 50.8 mm of the length of the sheet to accommodate the head mount the resultant substrate strips extending on either side of the mounting section would be about 17 inches 432 mm in length. However other substrate strip dimensions are possible.

An example of preferred mop substrate dimensions is a sheet measuring 36 inches 914 mm in length and 12 inches 305 mm in width. The mounting section of the example substrate spans the width of the sheet and has a length of 2 inches 50.8 mm and is positioned 17 inches 432 mm from either of the opposed sheet end edges . Cut lines are made every 1 inch 25.4 mm across the width of the sheet the cut lines extending 17 inches 432 mm from the sheet end edges to the mounting section . Thus in use the mop substrate will include twenty four individual substrate strips twelve on either side of the mounting section each 17 inches 432 mm long and 1 inch wide 25.4 mm and hanging down from the mounting section .

Additionally the mop head illustrated in shows a single mop substrate coupled to the head mount . However one or more additional mop sheet substrates may be layered and attached to the head mount such that the second side of the mop sheet substrate shown in would be in contact with the first side of the subsequent mob sheet substrate. Alternatively one or more additional mop sheet substrates may each be folded and attached to the same head mount in such manner as shown in such that first side of each sheet substrate would be next to the first side of the subsequent sheet substrate.

Another example of a mop head assembly that may be possible using the mop substrate is illustrated in . The mop substrate may be an substrate strip arrangement including a plurality of substrate strips that are configured in a superimposed orientation relative to one another.

As illustrated in individual substrate strips each having an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between two scrubbing material layers may be configured into a strip arrangement and coupled to a head mount . Each substrate strip having a pair of opposed strip side edges and a pair of opposed strip end edges . A mount aperture may be present on each substrate strip to couple the substrate strip to the head mount .

Each of the substrate strips may be individually formed or they may be cut from a sheet such as shown in . The individual substrate strips are oriented in the superimposed configuration with each substrate strip laying on top of the subsequent substrate strip as shown in . In the superimposed configuration illustrated in the mount aperture of each of the substrate strips is positioned centrally between the strip side edges and the strip end edges . The mount apertures of each the substrate strips are aligned such that a single fastener may be used to couple all of the substrate strips to the head mount .

The multiple layers of the composite substrate of the present invention are joined together by at least one bond . Such bond s may be any method or means appropriate to join together the scrubbing material layers and the absorbent foam layer disposed between the scrubbing material layers . Non limiting examples of such bond s may include adhesives stitching ultrasonic bonds thermal bonds impulse heat fasteners any other of the numerous means or method for bonding materials as are well known or combinations thereof. The bond s may be continuous lines of bonding or may be discontinuous bonds.

The placement of such bond s may influence the performance and integrity of the substrate . For example as shown in two lines of bonds are positioned to define the mounting section of the sheet . Such lines of bonds would assist in maintaining the integrity of the substrate in mounting section of the sheet . The mounting section bonds also define the attached end of the substrate strips on such sheets .

Bond s may also be present on the individual substrate strips of substrates . The placement of such bonds influences the performance of the substrate strips and thus the overall performance of the mop substrate . One possible bond configuration is shown in . The bonds are intermittently placed along the periphery of the substrate strip the bonds are along the strip side edges and strip end edge . With such a bond configuration the scrubbing material layers substantially covers the absorbent foam layer leaving only the edge surfaces of the absorbent foam layer exposed. Such an absorbent foam layer will only be able to absorb liquids or release a liquid through the edges where the substrate strip is unbonded. If the absorbent foam is hydraulically needled or otherwise post treated to provide open cells to the face of the foam layer as discussed below the foam layer may additionally be able to absorb liquids or release liquids passing through the scrubbing material layers to the absorbent foam layer .

The peripheral bonding configuration illustrated in may limit the amount or the rate that a liquid is absorbed into or released from the absorbent foam layer . However such a configuration also provides the most protection for the absorbent foam layer during use. As discussed an absorbent foam has low abrasion resistance and can degrade and break apart under continued scrubbing. By encasing the absorbent foam layer in the scrubbing layers the absorbent foam is protected from degradation from scrubbing.

An alternate bond pattern for the substrate strips is illustrated in . As shown the bonds are positioned centrally between the substrate strip side edges at the midway point between the side edges . Compared to the peripheral bond configuration of the central bond configuration of provides less protection to the absorbent foam layer . While the scrubbing substrate layers generally will protectively cover the absorbent foam layer during use the scrubbing layer may at times fold over and expose the absorbent foam layer to scrubbing. Thus while the scrubbing layer of such a central bond configuration of will provide the absorbent foam layer with more protection that if the absorbent foam layer was used on its own it will provide less protection than the peripheral bond configuration of .

However this lesser degree of protection is offset by the benefits of better absorbency and liquid release that the central bond configuration of presents compared to the peripheral bond configuration of . As can be seen in with the bonds positioned down the center of the substrate strip a greater portion of the absorbent foam layer is exposed at the strip side edges . Additionally where the absorbent foam has been post treated to increase the absorbency through the face of the layer the central bond configuration also exposes more of the face of the absorbent foam layer to liquid where the liquid does not have to first pass through the scrubbing material layer . As such the bond configuration of will have a greater amount and rate of absorbency compared to the bond configuration illustrated in .

One skilled in the art could see how the orientation and amount of bonds could be designed for a particular combination of scrubbing materials and absorbent foam to control the level and rate of absorbency and or fluid release of such a laminate substrate . Additionally the substrate strips of a mop substrate may include a combination of substrate strips with different bonding patterns to balance the trade off of protecting the absorbent foam and the absorbency of the foam within a particular mop head . For example the mop head shown in includes a substrate strip having a central bond configurations as in and another substrate strip having a peripheral bond configuration as in .

Additional functionality may be added to the head mount by including a disposal feature. One such disposal feature may be a sheath not shown attached to the head mount that may be pulled down over a used mop substrate to completely contain the mop substrate for easy and cleanly disposal. Such a disposal sheath would be waterproof and compatible with any substances that the mop may be used with. Ties cinches or an adhesive closure may be included with the disposal shroud to secure the sheath closed during disposal.

All of the examples discussed have been related to the multi layered substrate as a part of a mop head . However a substrate having an absorbent foam layer sandwiched between two layers of scrubbing material may be used with other cleaning articles. For example the substrate may be coupled to a wand a knob or a simple grip to be used to dust surfaces to apply furniture polish clean a bathtub clean windows or the like. Similarly the substrate may be in the form of a wiper a mit or other such simple form to be used in a similar fashion.

The mop head of the present invention may be included as part of a mop system that also includes a handle configured to be coupled to the head mount . Such a handle may be a traditional mop stick as are well known having a conventional threaded tip that screws into the head mount or some other similar common coupling mechanism.

However it is preferred that the handle of the mop system be a quick release handle that allows the user to disengage the handle from the mop head without having to bend over reposition the mop or otherwise come in close contact with the potentially dirty mop head .

Referring to in general the quick release handle that may be used with the mop head invention includes an elongated shaft having two opposite ends a proximal end and a distal end . The proximal end is proximate to the mop head to which the handle is to be attached. The distal end is distal to the proximal end and proximate to the user. The proximal end includes the quick release coupling assembly that will cooperate with and couple the handle to a mop head . The proximal end is also considered as the attachment end of the handle and the terms proximal end and attachment end may be used interchangeably.

Generally the distal end will have a grip by which the user may grasp the handle . The distal end is also considered the grip end of the handle and the terms distal end and grip end may be used interchangeably. Additionally the distal end accommodates the button actuator which the user depresses to release the coupling assembly from any mop head that may be coupled with the proximal end of the handle . Thus the user can release a mop head from the handle by manipulating the distal end rather than repositioning the handle bending over or going anywhere near the potentially dirty proximal end of the tool.

The elongated shaft is shown in as generally cylindrical in shape having a circular cross section as is common for most commonly available long tool handles. As such the elongated shaft has a single peripheral surface . However other cross sectional shapes are contemplated and are considered within the scope of the present invention. By way of non limiting examples the cross sectional shape of the elongated shaft may be elliptical polygonal or any other symmetrical or asymmetrical shape. Any such alternative cross sectional shape may provide the elongated shaft with additional peripheral surfaces .

Generally it is desired that the elongated shaft have a length of about 36 inches 0.9 m to about 72 inches 1.8 m . For a quick release handle for use with the mop head the elongated shaft will preferably be about 5 feet 1.5 m in length similar to the length of commonly available tool handles. The elongated shaft should have an outside diameter suitable for the intended tool mop head and that is comfortable for use by range of user hand sizes. Typically the outside diameter will be in the range of about 0.5 inches 12.7 mm to about 1.5 inches 38.1 mm . Preferably the outside diameter of the shaft will be similar to that of commonly available handles 0.75 inches 19.1 mm . Also the shaft illustrated in is generally uniform in its diameter from the proximal end to the distal end . However the shaft may alternatively have a non uniform diameter along its length and may have sections of uniform and non uniform diameter along its length.

The elongated shaft is hollow to accommodate the push rod and the other associated elements of the button actuator and quick release coupling assembly . The hollowed nature of the shaft also decreases the weight of the handle and the amount of material used in making the handle . The thickness of the hollow elongated shaft is a function of the materials used to make the shaft the inside diameter required to accommodate the elements to be accommodated within the shaft and the strength and weight desired. One skilled in the art would see how such variables could be balanced to produce the desired shaft .

The elongated shaft may be made from any material that meets the needs of the various mop heads with which such a handle is expected to be used. For example a stronger shaft may be desired for commercial applications while a lighter shaft may be desired for home applications. Other considerations may include but are not limited to weight durability compatibility with chemicals and substances the handle may come in contact appearance ease of cleaning colors available disposability and the like. Typically the shaft may be made of a metal plastic or wood. More particularly the shaft may be made of aluminum stainless steel ABS plastic or the like. Again one skilled in the art would see how such variables could be balanced to produce the desired shaft .

Additionally designs in which the shaft is telescoping collapsible and or foldable are also considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

As discussed above the quick release coupling assembly is positioned on the proximal end of the handle and is configured to be coupled with a mop head . The coupling assembly may utilize any releasable coupling mechanism as are well known to releaseably couple with a mop head . By way of non limiting examples such a releasable coupling mechanism may utilize a detent ball assembly as illustrated in A and B a collet a chuck a clamping spring a bayonet mount a barbed fastener a ribbed shank clip fastener or other such mechanisms or any combination thereof.

The mechanism of the coupling assembly is actuated by the user pressing and releasing the button actuator on the distal end of the shaft . The button actuator is operably connected with the coupling assembly by the push rod which extends along the length of the shaft from the button actuator to the coupling assembly . As can be seen in the example illustrated in A B A B and the button actuator is the terminus of the push rod on the distal end of the handle . At the proximal end of the push rod a stop collar is fitted around and attached to push rod by a pin . A spring around the push rod and compressed between the stop collar and the end wall of the stepped tip of the coupling assembly keeps the push rod biased toward the distal end .

As shown in A and B the coupling assembly at the proximal end of the shaft includes a stepped tip having a first end inserted into the proximal end of the shaft and a second end that extends from the end of the shaft and into the socket mount of a head mount of a working head to which the handle is to be coupled. The stepped tip has an internal longitudinal channel that extends the length of the stepped tip from the first end to the second end . The first section of the stepped tip near the first end has a diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the shaft such that the stepped tip may be snuggly fit into the proximal end of the shaft . A lip section of the stepped tip seats the stepped tip in the proximal end of the shaft and prevents the stepped tip from being pushed further into the shaft .

As illustrated in once the stepped tip is installed in the shaft the push rod extends into the longitudinal channel of the stepped tip . A stop rod extends from the proximal end of the push rod and is attached to the end of the push rod . The stop rod extends out of the longitudinal channel at the second end of the stepped tip and is capped by a head portion . The head portion has a conical portion that extends around the stop rod inside the longitudinal channel . When the stop rod is attached to both the push rod and the head portion the spring that biases the push rod toward the distal end as discussed above also pulls the head portion against the second end of the stepped tip .

The third section of the stepped tip additionally includes ports that extend from the longitudinal channel to the outer surface of the stepped tip . A single detent ball is retained by each port and against the stop rod or the conical portion .

When the handle and coupling assembly are in the engaged configuration such as shown in the spring between the stop collar and the first end of the stepped tip biases the push rod toward the distal end of the shaft . The stop rod attached to both the head portion and the push rod is subsequently pulled into contact with the second end of the stepped tip . The head portion is only pulled to the second end and thus the spring cannot push the push rod further toward the distal end or pull the stop rod further into the stepped tip . In such an engaged configuration the coupling assembly and push rod are held in a neutral state by the spring .

As shown in when the coupling assembly is in the engaged state the head portion is pulled to the second end of the stepped tip such that the conical portion of the head is pulled into the longitudinal channel . The conical portion engages the detent balls and pushes them into the ports such that the detent balls partially extend outside of the exterior wall of the third section of the stepped tip .

Various working heads could be used with this type of handle and coupling assembly . To work with the coupling assembly the particular working head should include a head mount that includes a socket mount into which the coupling assembly may be inserted. A retention stop within the socket mount cooperatively engages with the coupling assembly to securely couple the working head and the quick release handle . Such a retention stop may be anything within the socket mount that cooperatively engages the detent balls of the coupling assembly . By way of non limiting examples the retention stop may be a ring fixed within the socket mount as shown in recesses within the wall of the socket mount holes in the socket mount as shown in or another configuration which can engage the detent balls .

In operation when the coupling assembly is inserted into the socket mount the stepped tip would proceed from the mouth of the socket recess toward the recess terminus . When the coupling assembly is in the engaged neutral configuration the detent ball are pushed out of the ports by the conical portion of the head as discussed above. The inside diameter of the ring used as the retention stop shown in is designed to be slightly larger than the outer diameter of the third portion of the stepped tip . Thus as the stepped tip is inserted into the socket mount the third portion snugly passes into the retention stop but the protruding detent balls will come into contact with the retention stop . As the user continues to apply insertion pressure to the stepped tip the detent balls are forced into the ports and push against the conical portion and consequently push the head from the second end . Once the stepped tip is pushed farther into the socket mount the detent balls clear the retention stop and are again forced out of the ports by the conical portion . The detent balls engage the retention stop as illustrated in the engaged configuration shown in .

The socket mount includes a socket recess on the recess terminus side of the retention stop . Such a recess allows enough room for the head to extend from stepped tip as necessary for the detent balls to drop inside the stepped tip during insertion of the coupling assembly or release of the working head as discussed above.

The use of a coupling assembly with the detent ball mechanism described and illustrated in A and B is only one possible coupling assembly that may be used in the handle of the present invention. As discussed above other coupling mechanisms are contemplated for the coupling assembly to couple the handle with a mop head and operably connect to the button actuator such that the mop head is released from the handle when the button actuator is manipulated.

For increased universality the socket mount may additionally be threaded from the mouth of the socket mount to the retention stop . Such a socket mount could then also accept a standard handle with a thread tip if the user so desired.

The second section of the stepped tip is designed to have an outside diameter slightly smaller than the inside diameter of the socket mount . This ensures that the coupling assembly snuggly fits within the socket mount such that the mop head is securely and solidly held at the end of the handle . If the socket mount is threaded the second section would need to have an outside diameter slightly smaller that the threads.

Although not shown a second spring could be included inside of the socket mount attached to the recess terminus . Such a spring would be compressed upon insertion of the coupling assembly into the socket mount . When the button actuator was subsequently pressed to release the mop head from the handle such a spring would then bias the socket mount off of the coupling assembly .

Additional stability may be added to the connection of the head mount of the mop head and the coupling assembly by the inclusion of a coupler shroud at the proximal end of the shaft . As shown in the coupler shroud has portions that both protect the exposed coupling assembly from damage and cooperate with the designs of the head mounts to securely couple the mop head and handle .

To aid the user in grasping the handle the distal end may be equipped with a grip and a knob . The grip has a slightly larger diameter than the shaft and is preferably made of material or is otherwise designed to facilitate grasping of the shaft . Additionally such a grip should be designed to have the necessary durability required for the typical use of such handle . For example the grip may be made of rubber plastic metal or the like. Such materials may be given a texture through processing or through design by the addition of ridges patterns or divots to the surface of the grip as shown in .

The grip as shown in A B and may additionally have a knob that also provides the user with more comfort than a traditional stick used with common brooms or mops. Generally such traditional sticks merely have the end rounded off and cause fatigue to the user s hand and often result in blisters and calluses in the palm of the hand after extended use. The small diameter of the end of such traditional sticks causes discomfort and is often difficult for the user to fully grasp.

A knob such as shown in B and provides the user with a much larger diameter end to the handle compared to traditional sticks. The larger diameter of the knob relative to traditional sticks makes the knob much easier to grasp. By increasing the surface area of the distal end surface of the knob the forces experienced by the user s hand are spread out over a greater surface area than can be achieved by a rounded end of a traditional stick. Such a better distribution of forces result in a reduction in the amount of fatigue the user experience in their hand.

The knob may be formed as a unitary part of the terminus of the grip or it may be an additional part added to the distal end of the shaft . The knob shown in B and is only intended to be an exemplary shape for such a knob the knob may be any size and shape symmetrical or asymmetrical that allows the user to comfortably grasp and utilize the handle .

As can be seen in the shape of the knob is extended to the grip of the distal end of the handle . This functional grab area of the knob allows a user to maintain a grip of the knob when the user pushes the handle away from their body. This is particularly useful in mopping when a user will regularly cast out a mop and then bring the handle and mop back to themselves.

Additionally the button actuator is also present at the distal end of the handle . As shown in the button actuator is incorporated into the knob and is recessed within the distal end surface . As such the user may grasp the knob during use without unintentionally depressing the button actuator and accidentally releasing the mop head . The button actuator shown in B and is merely the terminus of the push rod . However the button actuator may be a separate piece attached or otherwise operably connected to the push rod

The knob as shown in B and may additionally have the added ability to freely rotate 360 degrees on the terminus of the distal end of the shaft . Such a freely rotating knob would reduce the rubbing and twisting that the user s hand experiences when using traditional sticks. By allowing the knob to freely rotate the user may maintain a grasp on the knob during regular use of the tool and avoid the fatigue and blisters that often accompanied use of a traditional push broom mop or floor duster.

The rotation of the knob may be accomplished with by any type of mechanical bearings as are well known that allow the desired 360 degrees of free rotation. By way of non limiting examples the rotation may be accomplished with sliding bearings or bushings rolling element bearings such as ball bearings roller bearings taper roller bearings fluid bearings magnetic bearings or the like. In the example shown in B and the rotation of the knob is accomplished with a track of ball bearings that are held in place by cooperative recesses in both the end of the grip and in the knob . The ball bearings allow the knob to freely rotate a full 360 degrees about the axis of the shaft on the end of the grip .

The assembly of the freely rotating knob is illustrated in B and . A shaft sleeve is associated with the knob such that the shaft sleeve fits over the push rod when the knob and associated shaft sleeve are inserted into shaft . A knob connecting collar inserted into the shaft fits around the shaft collar . A set screw is inserted from the exterior of the handle through the grip through the shaft and into the knob connecting collar . As such the set screw holds the knob connecting collar in place within the interior of the shaft . When the knob and associated shaft sleeve are inserted into the shaft the set screw is aligned with a notch circumscribed on the exterior of the shaft sleeve . With the set screw in place within the notch the knob is held firmly in place on the terminus of the handle and against the ball bearings . As such the knob may freely rotate 360 degrees upon the ball bearings the shaft sleeve is allowed to also freely rotate within the shaft and the knob is kept from being pulled from the end of the handle .

Additionally the shaft sleeve has an interior diameter that allows the push rod to pass through the shaft sleeve such that knob and shaft sleeve may freely rotate about push rod . As shown in the button actuator is recessed within the distal end surface . When in use the knob freely rotates about the button actuator and push rod without the risk of the user unintentionally depressing the button actuator or the non rotating button actuator rubbing on the palm of the user s hand.

The quick release handle may be a part of a interchangeable system of working heads including socket mounts that accommodate the quick release coupling assembly . The user would then be able to use a myriad of mop with the same handle and thus reduce the storage clutter associated with each tool having its own handle. For example the system may include a wet mop head using the wet mop head mount such as shown in A and B. Additionally or alternatively the system may include a variety of wet mop heads using the same wet mop head mount but with different types of mop substrates or different sizes of mop substrates .

The system may also include the wet mop head as shown in . Such a wet mop head utilizes a simpler socket mount than used in the previous examples. The socket mount may attach a wet mop substrate by the use of a substrate attachment collar . As shown in the socket mount may have holes inside the socket to act as a retention stop . The detent balls of the coupling assembly could then engage such holes to secure the wet mop head to the shaft of the handle .

The scrubbing material of the mob substrate of the present invention may be nonwoven webs woven webs knitted webs or laminates thereof as are well known in the art. The scrubbing material can be made from a variety of processes including but not limited to air laying processes wet laid processes hydroentangling processes spunbonding meltblowing staple fiber carding and bonding and solution spinning. The fibers themselves can be made from a variety of both natural and synthetic materials including but not limited to cellulose rayon nylon polyesters polyolefins and many other materials. The fibers may be relatively short staple length fibers typically less than 3 inches or longer and substantially more continuous fibers such as are produced by spunbonding and meltblowing processes.

An example of a material that may used for the scrubbing material of the mop substrate of the invention are the hydroentangled materials commonly used in such wipers and sold by the Kimberly Clark Corporation Roswell Ga. as HYDROKNIT . Examples of such hydroentangled materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 284 703 to Everhart et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 389 202 to Everhart et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 103 061 to Anderson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 784 126 to Everhart et al.

Generally such a hydroentangled nonwoven composite fabric has about 1 to 30 percent by weight of a nonwoven fibrous web component and more than about 70 percent by weight of the fibrous component. More particularly such nonwoven composite fabrics have about 10 to 25 percent by weight of the nonwoven fibrous web component and more than about 70 percent by weight of the fibrous component. The nonwoven fibrous web is typically a nonwoven fabric or web formed by meltblowing processes spunbonding processes bonded carded web processes or a similar process that forms a web having a structure of individual fibers or threads which are interlaid. Preferably the polymeric fibers are made of polymers selected from the group including polyolefins polyamides polyesters polycarbonates polystyrenes thermoplastic elastomers fluoropolymers vinyl polymers and blends and copolymers thereof. The fibers of the fibrous material may be pulp fibers natural non woody fibers synthetic fibers or combinations thereof. A non woody fiber source is any fiber species that is not a woody plant fiber source. Such non woody fiber sources include without limitation seed hair fibers from milkweed and related species abaca leaf fiber also known as Manila hemp pineapple leaf fibers sabai grass esparto grass rice straw banana leaf fiber base bark fibers from paper mulberry and similar fiber sources. Suitable synthetic fibers include polyolefins rayons acrylics polyesters acetates and other such staple fibers.

The scrubbing ability of the hydraulically entangled nonwoven composite fabric may be increased through embossing the fabric. Embossing such hydraulically entangled nonwoven composite fabrics may be done with a matched pair of embossing rolls see U.S. Pat. No. 5 284 703 to Everhart et al. . Preferably the composite fabric is also pre heated just prior to entering the matched pair of embossing rolls to ensure a more resilient embossing pattern see U.S. Pat. Publ. No. 2006 0128247 to Skoog et al. .

Preferably the hydraulically entangled nonwoven composite fabric that may be used in the mop substrate of the present invention may preferably have a basis weight of between about 64 and about 128 grams per squared meter. Such a composite desirably may use a spunbonded polypropylene web having a basis weight between about 11.87 and about 16.96 grams per squared meter as the nonwoven fibrous web and 100 percent northern softwood pulp as the fibrous material. The nonwoven fibrous web and fibrous material hydraulically entangled would be in a weight ratio of fibrous web to fibrous material of between about 85 15 to about 80 20.

Alternatively the scrubbing materials may be coform materials such as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 818 464 to Lau and U.S. Pat. No. 4 100 324 to Anderson et al. The scrubbing materials may be spunbond materials as are well known in the art and as shown in U.S. Pat. No. 4 340 563 to Appel et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 3 692 618 to Dorschner et al. Other non limiting examples of materials that can be used individually or in combination with other materials as the scrubbing materials in the mop substrate of the present invention are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 577 to Morman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 950 526 to Singleton U.S. Pat. No. 5 350 624 to Georger et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 230 to Hermans et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 149 767 to Hermans et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 177 370 to Skoog et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 649 547 to Arnold et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 692 825 to Qin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 736 916 to Steinke et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 777 056 to Boggs et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 797 360 to Varona and U.S. Pat. No. 6 797 377 to DeLucia et al.

Additionally structure materials or combinations thereof may be added to the surface of the scrubbing layer to improve the scrubbing capability of the mop substrate . Protrusions ridges embossments bumps or other texture may be provided to the surface of the scrubbing layer by processing of the scrubbing material or may be provided by an additional material added to the surface of the scrubbing layer . For example bumps or ridges of silicone could be added to the surface of the scrubbing layer . The addition of such silicone texturing to a scrubbing surface is well known.

The absorbent foam layer of the mop substrate may be any absorbent foam material that can be laminated to the scrubbing layers and is capable of giving the mop substrate the mopping characteristics desired by the user. Absorbent foams are known in the art and are readily available. While not intending to be limiting the absorbent foam may be preferably selected from the general classifications of absorbent thermoplastic foams and absorbent thermoset foams.

Absorbent thermoset foams are readily available and are well known. Non limiting examples of such thermoset foams may include foams made from melamine polyurethane poly vinyl chloride rubber latex polyester and the like. Such foams may be subjected to post treatment steps or chemical treatments as are well known to increase the wettability of such foams. One skilled in the art would understand how the proper treatment method extent of treatment and the characteristic material properties of such foams could be balanced to meet the specific needs of the particular mop substrate . Examples of absorbent thermoset foams may be found in U.S. Pat. No. 3 650 995 to Erickson U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 103 to Harper et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 900 030 to Bashan U.S. Pat. No. 4 133 784 to Otey et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 415 to Bethe U.S. Pat. No. 4 205 103 to Davis et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 337 181 to Otey et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 454 268 to Otey et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 717 738 to Fukuda et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 725 629 to Garvey et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 731 391 to Garvey U.S. Pat. No. 4 985 467 to Kelly et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 011 864 to Nielsen et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 110 843 to Bries et al.

Open cell thermoplastic absorbent foams that may be used in the mop substrate of the present invention may be made by forming a foam polymer formula that includes a plasticizing agent and one or more surfactants in combination with a base resin. The plasticizing agent included in the foam polymer formula may further increase the softness of the resulting foam and optionally to increase the open cell content and cell size of the resulting foam. Examples of an open cell thermoplastic absorbent foams including their manufacture and use may be found in U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0148917 to Radwanski et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0030632 to Krueger et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0068187 to Krueger et al. U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0228350 to Ranganathan et al. and U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0124709 to Krueger et al.

The foam of the invention possesses a number of desirable properties attributable to the balanced presence of both a plasticizing agent and surfactant. The inclusion of the surfactant and plasticizing agent in the foam polymer formula enhances softness flexibility absorbency as well as the uniformity of cell size distribution within the foam. As used herein the term foam polymer formula refers to the composition of the foam during the foam forming process whereas the term foam refers to a finished or formed state of the foam.

The open cell content of the foam which can be controlled by adjusting the amount of surfactant and or plasticizing agent included in the foam polymer formula is suitably about 50 or greater or about 70 or greater or about 80 or greater as measured using ASTM D2856. The foam is low density with a density of about 0.10 gram cubic centimeter g cm or less or about 0.07 g cmor less or about 0.04 g cmor less and suitably at least about 0.02 g cm before any compression is applied to meet specific packaging and or in use requirements is soft and flexible and is resilient. The foam density is a measurement of bulk density determined using ASTM D1622. Softness flexibility elasticity and resiliency are also demonstrated through compression set resistance. The foam of the invention suitably has a compression resistance of about 20 compression set or less or about 15 compression set or less or about 7 compression set or less as measured using ASTM D3575.

The base resin or starting material included in the foam polymer formula used to make the thermoplastic foam that may be used in the absorbent foam layer of the invention may include any suitable thermoplastic polymer or blend of thermoplastic polymers or blend of thermoplastic and non thermoplastic polymers.

Examples of polymers or base resins suitable for use in the foam polymer formula include styrene polymers such as polystyrene or polystyrene copolymers or other alkenyl aromatic polymers polyolefins including homo or copolymers of olefins such as polyethylene polypropylene polybutylene etc. polyesters such as polyalkylene terephthalate and combinations thereof. A commercially available example of polystyrene resin is Dow STYRON 685D available from Dow Chemical Company in Midland Mich. U.S.A.

Coagents and compatibilizers can be utilized for blending such resins. Crosslinking agents can also be employed to enhance mechanical properties foamability and expansion. Crosslinking may be done by several means including electron beams or by chemical crosslinking agents including organic peroxides. Use of polymer side groups incorporation of chains within the polymer structure to prevent polymer crystallization lowering of the glass transition temperature lowering a given polymer s molecular weight distribution adjusting melt flow strength and viscous elastic properties including elongational viscosity of the polymer melt block copolymerization blending polymers and use of polyolefin homopolymers and copolymers have all been used to improve foam flexibility and foamability. Homopolymers can be engineered with elastic and crystalline areas. Syndiotactic atactic and isotactic polypropylenes blends of such and other polymers can also be utilized. Suitable polyolefin resins include low including linear low medium and high density polyethylene and polypropylene which are normally made using Ziegler Natta or Phillips catalysts and are relatively linear generally more foamable are resins having branched polymer chains. Isotactic propylene homopolymers and blends are made using metallocene based catalysts. Olefin elastomers are included.

Ethylene and olefin copolymers made using either Ziegler Natta or a metallocene catalyst can produce soft flexible foam having extensibility. Polyethylene cross linked with olefins and various ethylene ionomer resins can also be utilized. Use of ethyl vinyl acetate copolymers with other polyolefin type resins can produce soft foam. Common modifiers for various polymers can also be reacted with chain groups to obtain suitable functionality. Suitable alkenyl aromatic polymers include alkenyl aromatic homopolymers and copolymers of alkenyl aromatic compounds and copolymerizable ethylenically unsaturated comonomers including minor proportions of non alkenyl aromatic polymers and blends of such. Ionomer resins can also be utilized.

Other polymers that may be employed include natural and synthetic organic polymers including cellulosic polymers methyl cellulose polylactic acids polyvinyl acids polyacrylates polycarbonates starch based polymers polyetherimides polyamides polyesters polymethylmethacrylates and copolymer polymer blends. Rubber modified polymers such as styrene elastomers styrene butadiene copolymers ethylene elastomers butadiene and polybutylene resins ethylene propylene rubbers EPDM EPM and other rubbery homopolymers and copolymers of such can be added to enhance softness and hand. Olefin elastomers can also be utilized for such purposes. Rubbers including natural rubber SBR polybutadiene ethylene propylene terpolymers and vulcanized rubbers including TPVs can also be added to improve rubber like elasticity.

Thermoplastic foam absorbency can be enhanced by foaming with spontaneous hydrogels commonly known as superabsorbents. Superabsorbents can include alkali metal salts of polyacrylic acids polyacrylamides polyvinyl alcohol ethylene maleic anhydride copolymers polyvinyl ethers hydroxypropylcellulose polyvinyl morpholinone polymers and copolymers of vinyl sulfonic acid polyacrylates polyacrylamides polyvinyl pyridine and the like. Other suitable polymers include hydrolyzed acrylonitrile grafted starch acrylic acid grafted starch carboxy methyl cellulose isobutylene maleic anhydride copolymers and mixtures thereof. Further suitable polymers include inorganic polymers such as polyphosphazene and the like. Furthermore thermoplastic foam biodegradability and absorbency can be enhanced by foaming with cellulose based and starch based components such as wood and or vegetable fibrous pulp flour.

In addition to any of these polymers the foam polymer formula may also or alternatively include diblock triblock tetrablock or other multi block thermoplastic elastomeric and or flexible copolymers such as polyolefin based thermoplastic elastomers including random block copolymers including ethylene olefin copolymers block copolymers including hydrogenated butadiene isoprene butadiene block copolymers stereoblock polypropylenes graft copolymers including ethylene propylene diene terpolymer or ethylene propylene diene monomer EPDM ethylene propylene random copolymers EPM ethylene propylene rubbers EPR ethylene vinyl acetate EVA and ethylene methyl acrylate EMA and styrenic block copolymers including diblock and triblock copolymers such as styrene isoprene styrene SIS styrene butadiene styrene SBS styrene isoprene butadiene styrene SIBS styrene ethylene butylene styrene SEBS or styrene ethylene propylene styrene SEPS which may be obtained from Kraton Polymers of Belpre Ohio U.S.A. under the trade designation KRATON elastomeric resin or from Dexco a division of ExxonMobil Chemical Company in Houston Tex. U.S.A. under the trade designation VECTOR SIS and SBS polymers or SEBS polymers as the SEPTON series of thermoplastic rubbers from Kuraray America Inc. in New York N.Y. U.S.A. blends of thermoplastic elastomers with dynamic vulcanized elastomer thermoplastic blends thermoplastic polyether ester elastomers ionomeric thermoplastic elastomers thermoplastic elastic polyurethanes including those available from E.I. Du Pont de Nemours in Wilmington Del. U.S.A. under the trade name LYCRA polyurethane and ESTANE available from Noveon Inc. in Cleveland Ohio U.S.A. thermoplastic elastic polyamides including polyether block amides available from ATOFINA Chemicals Inc. in Philadelphia Pa. U.S.A. under the trade name PEBAX polyether block amide thermoplastic elastic polyesters including those available from E.I. Du Pont de Nemours Company under the trade name HYTREL and ARNITEL from DSM Engineering Plastics of Evansville Ind. U.S.A. and single site or metallocene catalyzed polyolefins having a density of less than about 0.89 grams cubic centimeter such as metallocene polyethylene resins available from Dow Chemical Company in Midland Mich. U.S.A. under the trade name AFFINITY and combinations thereof.

As used herein a tri block copolymer has an ABA structure where the A represents several repeat units of type A and B represents several repeat units of type B. As mentioned above several examples of styrenic block copolymers are SBS SIS SIBS SEBS and SEPS. In these copolymers the A blocks are polystyrene and the B blocks are the rubbery component. Generally these triblock copolymers have molecular weights that can vary from the low thousands to hundreds of thousands and the styrene content can range from 5 to 75 based on the weight of the triblock copolymer. A diblock copolymer is similar to the triblock but is of an AB structure. Suitable diblocks include styrene isoprene diblocks which have a molecular weight of approximately one half of the triblock molecular weight and having the same ratio of A blocks to B blocks. Diblocks with a different ratio of A to B blocks or a molecular weight larger or greater than one half of triblock copolymers may be suitable for improving the foam polymer formula for producing low density soft flexible absorbent foam via polymer extrusion.

It may be particularly beneficial to include a thermoplastic elastomer having a high diblock content and high molecular weight as part of the foam polymer formula to extrude low density soft flexible resilient absorbent thermoplastic foam. For example the thermoplastic elastomer may have a diblock content between about 50 and about 80 by weight of the total thermoplastic elastomer weight.

KRATON products have been shown to act as a discontinuous phase in styrenic based foams and act as cell opener generators when used in small amounts. The amount of KRATON polymers used in the foam polymer formula as a whole in the foam of the invention is of such a large magnitude that the cell opener effect is negligible compared to the resiliency flexibility elasticity and softness imparted.

Suitably the foam polymer formula includes up to about 90 by weight of polystyrene and at least 10 by weight of thermoplastic elastomer. More particularly the foam polymer formula may include between about 45 and about 90 by weight of polystyrene and between about 10 and about 55 by weight of thermoplastic elastomer. Alternatively the foam polymer formula may include between about 50 and about 80 by weight of polystyrene and between about 20 and about 50 by weight of thermoplastic elastomer. In one embodiment for example the foam polymer formula may include equal amounts of polystyrene and thermoplastic elastomer.

In another embodiment the foam polymer formula may include about 40 to about 80 by weight polystyrene and about 20 to about 60 by weight thermoplastic elastomer. In another embodiment the foam polymer formula may include about 50 to about 70 by weight polystyrene and about 30 to about 50 by weight thermoplastic elastomer.

A plasticizing agent may be included in the thermoplasitc foam polymer formula. A plasticizing agent is a chemical agent that imparts flexibility stretchability and workability. The type of plasticizing agent has an influence on foam gel properties blowing agent migration resistance cellular structure including the fine cell size and number of open cells. Typically plasticizing agents are of low molecular weight. The increase in polymer chain mobility and free volume caused by incorporation of a plasticizing agent typically results in a Tg decrease and plasticizing agent effectiveness is often characterized by this measurement. Petroleum based oils fatty acids and esters are commonly used and act as external plasticizing agents or solvents because they do not chemically bond to the polymer yet remain intact in the polymer matrix upon crystallization.

The plasticizing agent increases cell connectivity by thinning membranes between cells to the point of creating porous connections between cells thus the plasticizing agent increases open cell content. Suitably the plasticizing agent is included in an amount between about 0.5 and about 10 or between about 1 and about 10 by weight of the foam polymer formula. The plasticizing agent is gradually and carefully metered in increasing concentration into the foam polymer formula during the foaming process because too much plasticizing agent added at once creates cellular instability resulting in cellular collapse.

Examples of suitable plasticizing agents include polyethylene ethylene vinyl acetate mineral oil palm oil waxes esters based on alcohols and organic acids naphthalene oil paraffin oil and combinations thereof. A commercially available example of a suitable plasticizing agent is a small chain polyethylene that is produced as a catalytic polymerization of ethylene because of its low molecular weight it is often referred to as a wax. This low density highly branched polyethylene wax is available from Eastman Chemical Company of Kingsport Tenn. U.S.A. under the trade designation EPOLENE C 10.

In order for such a thermoplastic foam to be used in personal care and medical product applications and many absorbent wiping articles and non personal care articles the foam must meet stringent chemical and safety guidelines. A number of plasticizing agents are FDA approved for use in packaging materials. These plasticizing agents include acetyl tributyl citrate acetyl triethyl citrate p tert butylphenyl salicylate butyl stearate butylphthalyl butyl glycolate dibutyl sebacate di 2 ethylhexyl phthalate diethyl phthalate diisobutyl adipate diisooctyl phthalate diphenyl 2 ethylhexyl phosphate epoxidized soybean oil ethylphthalyl ethyl glycolate glycerol monooleate monoisopropyl citrate mono di and tristearyl citrate triacetin glycerol triacetate triethyl citrate and 3 2 xenoyl 1 2 epoxypropane.

In certain embodiments the same material used as the thermoplastic elastomer may also be used as the plasticizing agent. For example the KRATON polymers described above may be used as a thermoplastic elastomer and or a plasticizing agent. In which case the foam polymer formula may include between about 10 and about 50 by weight of a single composition that acts as both a thermoplastic elastomer and a plasticizing agent. Described in an alternative manner the foam may be formed without a plasticizing agent per se in which case the foam polymer formula may include between about 10 and about 50 by weight of the thermoplastic elastomer.

Foaming of soft flexible polymers such as thermoplastic elastomers to a low density is difficult to achieve. The addition of a plasticizing agent makes foaming to low densities even more difficult to achieve. The method of the invention overcomes this difficulty through the inclusion of a surfactant in the foam polymer formula. The surfactant stabilizes the cells thereby counteracting cellular collapse while retaining an open cell structure. This stabilization of the cells creates cell uniformity and control of cell structure. In addition to enabling foaming of plasticized thermoplastic elastomer polymer containing foam formulations to low densities the surfactant also provides wettability to enable the resulting foam to absorb fluid.

While it is not intended to limit the thermoplastic foam to a particular theory it is believed that improved cell stabilization is achieved via the use of surfactant in a foam polymer formula containing a plasticizing agent. The addition of a plasticizing agent makes foaming to low densities even more difficult to achieve. Plasticizing agents such as waxes oils silicone defoamers and small particulates at low addition provide localized surface tension reduction in the foam cell membrane which causes rupturing and premature cellular collapse or coalescence. The method of the invention overcomes this difficulty through the addition of surfactant to the foam polymer formula which counteracts thermodynamic and kinetic instabilities of bubble formation in the polymer melt. The surfactant stabilizes the cells thereby counteracting cellular collapse caused by the plasticizing agent. This stabilization of the cells creates cell uniformity in terms of cell size and cell size distribution and thereby allows control of cell structure. Since the surfactant is a surface active agent it lowers the surface or interfacial tension and thus assists bubble formation. A decreased surface tension reduces the pressure differential required to maintain a bubble of a certain size reduces the pressure difference between bubbles of different sizes reduces the free energy required to maintain a given interfacial area and thus increases the bubble nucleation rate. As Gibbs theorem explains a surfactant combats excessive thinning of cell membranes and restores surfactant concentration to the surface and thereby acts as a stabilizing factor however a surfactant does not restore liquid to the film which results in a lack of self repair. The Marangoni effect describes surface flow of dragging underlying layers of liquid to restore film thickness which enhances film elasticity and resilience and thus counters cellular coalescence. This again is a stabilizer. Assuming the credence of these two mechanisms a surfactant would be most effective if it is designed so that the Marangoni effect dominates the foam polymer formula for if the Gibbs effect dominates the diffusion rate would be too high and self repair would not occur. Therefore the addition of surfactant acts as a buffer or stabilizer to control surface tension and with control of temperature which also affects surface tension melt viscosity and melt strength bubble stability can occur so that cells form in the thermoplastic melt. This effect is offset by lowering the surface tension forces that hold the polymer matrix together.

Bubble walls typically drain due to gravity and capillary forces. Such drainage thins the walls before the cell struts are sufficiently hardened which leads to cell collapse. La Place and Young proposed that capillary pressure at the junction of two or more ribs is lower thereby creating flow from the membrane to the ribs and consequently thinning. With a sufficient amount of surfactant molecules arranged preferentially to migrate to the surface of the film membrane the presence of surfactant at the membrane s thin film surfaces provides resistance to drainage of the molten plastic. If the film layer is sufficiently thick such as in a foam membrane it can be further stabilized by an ionic double layer of molecules resulting from orientation of ionic surfactants. Both nonionic and ionic surfactants can exhibit another stabilizing force if the membrane is sufficiently thin. This would be done by the alignment of surfactant tails to create a bi layer structure such as found in biological cells that is held together via Van der Waals forces and thus stabilizes the foam membrane.

 References edited by Daniel Klempner and Kurt Frisch Hanser Publishers 1991 and edited by S. T. Lee Technomic Publishing Co. Inc. 2000. 

The surfactant is thought to also provide resistance to diffusion of the gas from the cell to the surroundings which also aids in resisting collapse. The reduced gas permeability due to the drainage resistance is related to the degree the surfactant can pack into the bubble s film surface and explains the difference between the performances of the various surfactants. This reduced rate of diffusion allows sufficient cooling for strut formation to prevent coalescence. The surfactant does not need to prevent drainage but simply slows it sufficiently so that the cell struts are substantially hardened thereby preventing cell coalescence. In general terms it is expected that surfactants that are highly mobile in the melt highly surface active and can pack tightly and prevent membrane drainage will provide the best cell stabilization.

The surfactant used in the thermoplastic foam formulation may be a single surfactant or a multi component surfactant system. A multi component surfactant system is a combination of two or more surfactants. It has been found that certain multi component surfactant systems can achieve equal or better foam formation at a lower dosage than certain single component surfactant systems. Example 3 below illustrates the effects of adding various dosages of surfactant and surfactant mixtures to a polymer blend. For example in the samples tested the two component surfactant foams had densities comparable to foam made with over three times the amount of a single surfactant system. Surfactant is a costly component in the foam polymer formula. The use of certain multi component surfactant systems can be used to achieve foam having comparable foam properties at a lower cost than foam that includes three times as much surfactant.

The surfactant can be included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 0.05 and about 10 or between about 0.1 and about 5 by weight of the foam polymer formula. In an embodiment in which the surfactant is a multi component surfactant system the total of all surfactants can be included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 0.05 and about 8.0 or between about 0.1 and about 3.0 by weight of the foam polymer formula. Examples of suitable surfactants include cationic anionic amphoteric and nonionic surfactants. Anionic surfactants include the alkylsulfonates. Examples of commercially available surfactants include HOSTASTAT HS 1 available from Clariant Corporation in Winchester Va. U.S.A. Cognis EMEREST 2650 Cognis EMEREST 2648 and Cognis EMEREST 3712 each available from Cognis Corporation in Cincinnati Ohio U.S.A. and Dow Corning 193 available from Dow Chemical Company in Midland Mich. U.S.A. Alkyl sulfonates are quite effective however use of this class of surfactants in certain applications may be limited because of product safety. Some combinations offer unexpected benefits where the alkyl sulfonate is added at a substantially lower level in conjunction with another surfactant to yield good foaming and wettability. In one embodiment for example the surfactant can be added to the foam polymer formula in a gaseous phase such as through the use of a blowing agent such as supercritical carbon dioxide. One benefit of using a gaseous surfactant is that the surfactant can fully penetrate and be incorporated into the polymer matrix which can improve substantivity and thereby reduce surfactant fugitivity to enhance the foam s permanent wettability.

The balance between cell stabilization of the surfactant and the enhanced melt drainage from the plasticizing agent enables control over the open cell content of the resulting foam. More particularly the amount of surfactant can be adjusted to counteract the effects of the plasticizing agent and or the amount of the plasticizing agent can be adjusted to counteract the effects of the surfactant. For example if the plasticizing agent is included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 0.5 and about 5 by weight of the foam polymer formula then the surfactant should be included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 0.5 and about 5 by weight of the foam polymer formula. Similarly if the plasticizing agent is included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 5 and about 10 by weight of the foam polymer formula then the surfactant should be included in the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 2 and about 10 by weight of the foam polymer formula. In addition the polymer resin melt flow index can be adjusted to offset the plasticizing agent s effect.

Other additives can be included in the foam polymer formula to enhance the properties of the resulting thermoplastic foam. For example a nucleant can be added to improve foam gas bubble formation in the foam polymer formula. Examples of suitable nucleants include talc magnesium carbonate nanoclay silica calcium carbonate modified nucleant complexes and combinations thereof. An example of a commercially available nucleant is a nanoclay available under the trade name CLOISITE 20A from Southern Clay Products Inc. in Gonzales Tex. U.S.A. The nucleant can be added to the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 0.1 and about 5 by weight of the foam polymer formula. Nucleants or nucleating agents are described in greater detail below.

A blowing agent described in greater detail below can be added to the foam polymer formula to aid in the foaming process. Blowing agents can be compounds that decompose at extrusion temperatures to release large volumes of gas volatile liquids such as refrigerants and hydrocarbons or ambient gases such as nitrogen and carbon dioxide or water or combinations thereof. A blowing agent can be added to the foam polymer formula in an amount between about 1 and about 10 by weight of the foam polymer formula.

Once the foam polymer formula is mixed and formed including the plasticizing agent the surfactant and any other additives the foam polymer formula is heated and mixed suitably to a temperature between about 100 and about 500 degrees Celsius to create a polymer melt. The plasticizing agent reduces elongational viscosity of the polymer melt which leads to foaming difficulties. However the surfactant mediates the impact of the plasticizing agent on the viscosity thereby providing control over the open cell content of the resulting foam. Also as mentioned the polymer resin melt index can be adjusted to offset the plasticizing agent s effect.

The polymer melt can be foamed using any suitable foaming technique known to those skilled in the art. The density of the foam is suitably about 0.35 g cmor less or about 0.20 g cmor less or about 0.10 g cmor less for example about 0.02 to about 0.10 g cm. Foam expansion ratio is generally about 10 or greater. Suitably the absorbent foam has about 5 or more closed cells or about 10 or more closed cells or about 15 or more closed cells to improve resiliency and or compression resistance.

The polymer melt can be continuously extruded to form a soft flexible open cell thermoplastic absorbent foam. As explained above the open cell content of the foam is controlled by adjusting the amounts of plasticizing agent and surfactant. Open cell content can be measured using a gas pycnometer according to ASTM D2856 Method C. The open cell content of the resulting foam is suitably about 50 or greater or about 70 or greater or about 80 or greater.

To produce thermoplastic foam continuous plastic extrusion processes are typically utilized. Certain injection molding and batch processes can also be employed. Often tandem screw type extruders are used because of the need for tight control of extrusion temperatures to produce open cell foam. The first extruder typically contains several zones including feed and conveying compression melting metering and mixing zones and if one extruder is being used a cooling zone is utilized prior to polymer melt discharge foaming and shaping. The first extruder is typically hopper loaded with resin and additives using dry blend metering equipment and or having the additive s incorporated into the pelletized polymer concentrate such as in a masterbatch. The resins additives and or masterbatch are then heated in the extruder to form a plasticized or melt polymer system often with zoned temperature control using extruder cooling heating systems. Physical blowing agents are typically added after the melt temperature has been heated to a temperature at or above its glass transition temperature or melting temperature to form a foamable melt. The inlet for a physical blowing agent is typically between the metering and mixing zones. The blowing agent is mixed thoroughly with the melted polymer at a sufficiently elevated pressure to prevent melt expansion. With a nucleating agent and blowing agent blended in the polymer melt the foamable melt is typically cooled to a lower temperature to control the desired foam cell structure. With tandem extruders the cooling is done in a second extruder which is connected downstream of the first extruder through a heated cross over supply pipe. In single extruders cooling is typically done upstream of the discharge orifice. Often cooling heating systems with process temperature control loops are incorporated to tightly control foam bubble nucleation growth within the melt. The optimum cooling temperature is typically at or slightly above the glass transition temperature or melting point of the melt.

In one embodiment a tandem extruder such as illustrated in can be utilized. This type of extruder may be considered particularly suitable in some aspects because it has the ability to provide tight control of extrusion temperatures to produce open cell foam. With tandem extruders the first extruder section typically contains several zones including a feed zone a conveying zone a compression zone a melting zone and a metering and mixing zone . The second extruder section often contains a cooling zone and a shaping zone prior to the discharge . The first extruder is typically hopper loaded with the base resin s as well as any other desired additives including thermoplastic elastomers plasticizing agents surfactants and or fibers for example. Techniques known in the art for accomplishing this include using dry blend metering equipment and or having the components incorporated into a palletized polymer concentrate such as in a masterbatch. The components of the foam formula are then heated in the extruder to form a plasticized or melt polymer.

The foamable melt is then typically cooled to a lower temperature to control the desired foam cell structure. In the case of tandem extruders the cooling is typically accomplished in the second extruder which is connected downstream of the first extruder through a heated cross over supply pipe . In the case of single extruders not shown cooling is typically accomplished upstream of the discharge orifice. Often cooling heating systems with process temperature control loops are incorporated to tightly control foam bubble nucleation growth within the gas laden melt. The optimum cooling temperature for foam formation is typically at or slightly above the glass transition temperature or melting point of the melt.

The melt is then extruded through a die to a lower pressure typically atmospheric or a vacuum and lower temperature typically ambient environment to cause thermodynamic instability and foaming which then cools and crystallizes the plastic to form a stabilized foam which then solidifies to form a web or layer. Often circular annular or slit dies including curtain dies and the like are used often with a mandrel to shape and draw the web to the desired gauge shape and orientation with foam expansion and cooling.

Various equipment configurations using such extrusion means can be used to manufacture the thermoplastic foam that may be used as the absorbent foam layer of the present invention. In addition various specialized equipment can be employed upstream of specially designed dies to enhance mixing cooling cellular structure metering and foaming. Such equipment includes static mixers gear pumps and various extruder screw designs for example. Stretching equipment including roller nips tenters and belts may also be used immediately downstream of the discharge to elongate cellular shape to enhance absorbency for example. Microwave irradiation for cross linking foaming activation and mechanical means can also be used to enhance foam properties. Foam contouring shaping e.g. use of a wire mesh pattern and the like using thermoforming and other such thermal processes including thermal bonding can be used to control shaping flexibility softness aesthetics and absorbent swelling.

Both physical and chemical blowing agents including both inorganic and organic physical blowing agents are used to create foaming. Suitable inorganic physical blowing agents include water nitrogen carbon dioxide air argon and helium. Organic blowing agents include hydrocarbons such as methane ethane propane butanes pentanes hexanes and the like. Aliphatic alcohols and halogenated hydrocarbons including FREON and HFC 134A can also be used though in the latter their use is generally avoided for environmental reasons. Endothermic and exothermic chemical blowing agents which are typically added at the extruder hopper include azodicarbonamide paratoluene sulfonyl hydrazide azodiisobutyro nitrile benzene sulfonyl hydrazide P toluene sulfonyl hydrazide barium azodicarboxylate sodium bicarbonate sodium carbonate ammonium carbonate citric acid toluene solfonyl semicarbazide dinitroso pentamethylene tetramine phenyltetrazole sodium borohydride and the like. Mixtures and combinations of various physical and chemical blowing agents can be used and often are used to control cell structure. Blowing agent activators can be added to lower the decomposition temperature profile of such chemical blowing agents. Such activators include metals in the form of salts oxides or organometallic complexes.

Open cell formation can be regulated by elevated processing pressures and or temperatures and use of nucleating agents and chemical blowing agents which can control both cell density and cell structure. Various base resins are sometimes used to broaden the foaming temperature to make open cell foam. Open cell level can be facilitated by adding small amounts of various immiscible polymers to the foam polymer formula such as adding polyethylene or ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer to polystyrenic based foam systems to create interphase domains that cause cell wall rupture. By regulating the polymer system components and crystallization initiating temperature open cell content and microporous cell membrane uniformity can be controlled. Ethylene styrene interpolymers can be added to alkenyl aromatic polymers to control open cell quality and improve surface quality and processability. Small amounts of polystyrene based polymers are sometimes added to polyolefin based foams to increase open cell content.

Additives such as nucleating agents can also be employed to obtain desired fine open cell structure. The amount of nucleating agent will vary according to the cell structure desired foaming temperature pressure polymer composition and type of nucleating agent utilized. Typically with increasing nucleating agent cell density and open cell content increase. Nucleating agents include calcium carbonate blends of citric acid and sodium bicarbonate coated citric acid sodium bicarbonate particles nanoclays silica barium stearate diatomaceous earth titanium dioxide talc pulverized wood clay and calcium stearate. Stearic acid salicylic acid fatty acids and metal oxides can also be used as foaming aids. Other thermoplastic polymers can also be used for such purposes. These are typically dry blended or added with the polymer concentrate.

Various additives such as lubricants acid scavengers stabilizers colorants adhesive promoters fillers smart chemicals foam regulators various UV infrared radiation stabilizing agents antioxidants flame retardants smoke suppressants anti shrinking agents thermal stabilizers rubbers including thermosets anti statics permeability modifiers and other processing and extrusion aids including mold release agents and anti blocking agents and the like can also be added to the foam polymer formula.

Secondary or post treatment processes can be performed to improve among other things absorbency cellular orientation aesthetics softness and similar properties. This can be accomplished through numerous techniques known in the art including mechanical needling and other mechanical perforation such as to soften foam and increase open cell content stretching and drawing such as for cellular orientation and softening calendering or creping such as to soften and rupture cell membranes to improve cellular intercommunication brushing scarfing buffing sanding and thermoforming such as to shape the foam composite . Often a foam surface skin may form during extrusion which can later be skived or sliced off needle punched brushed scraped buffed scarved sanded or perforated to remove the barrier. Depending on the specific usage of the foam application of a surfactant after the foaming process or needling process may further be utilized to afford a desired wettability.

The foam layer is then passed under one or more manifolds . The hydraulic needling process may be carried out with any appropriate working fluid such as for example water. The working fluid is generally evenly distributed by the manifold through a series of individual holes or orifices which may be from about 0.003 to about 0.015 inch 0.076 to 0.381 mm in diameter. In some aspects the working fluid passes through the orifices at a pressure generally ranging from about 50 to about 3000 pounds per square inch gage psig 344 to 20685 KPa such as about 60 to about 1500 psig 414 to 10342 KPa or about 100 to about 800 psig 686 to 5516 KPa or even about 200 to about 600 psig 1379 to 4137 KPa . In general thermoplastic foam layers may utilize a fluid pressure ranging from about 60 to about 400 psig 414 to 2758 KPa when one to four manifolds are used. However greater needling energy may also be desired or required for high basis weight materials stiffer modulus higher line speeds and the like.

Water jet treatment equipment and other hydraulic needling equipment and processes which may be adapted can be found for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 485 706 to Evans and in an article by Honeycomb Systems Inc. entitled Rotary Hydraulic Entanglement of Nonwovens reprinted from INSIGHT 86 INTERNATIONAL ADVANCED FORMING BONDING CONFERENCE both of which are incorporated herein by reference in a manner consistent herewith. In some aspects the invention may be practiced using a manifold containing a strip having 0.007 inch diameter orifices 30 orifices per inch and one row of orifices such as that produced by Metso Paper USA Inc. a business having offices located in Biddeford Me. U.S.A. Other manifold configurations and combinations such as those available from Fleissner GmbH a business having offices in Egelsbach Germany or Rieter Perfojet S. A. a business having offices located in Winterthur Switzerland may also be used. For instance in some aspects a single manifold may be utilized whereas in other aspects several manifolds may be arranged in succession.

The resulting columnar jetted streams of the working fluid impact on the foam layer thereby puncturing the skin which may have formed on the foam layer surface during formation and increasing the open cell content of the layer. Additionally vacuum slots in a suction box es may be located directly beneath the hydraulic needling manifold s and beneath the carrier belt as well as downstream of the needling manifold s to remove excess water from the hydraulically jet treated material . The hydraulically jet treated foam layer can then be dried using means known in the art.

Calendaring and creping can also be used to soften and rupture cell membranes to improve cellular connectivity and thermoforming can be used to shape the foam absorbent. Mechanical hydraulic thermal or laser perforation can also be used to soften foam and further increase open cell content. Post densification of the foam structure after extrusion can be employed to enhance functionality.

By regulating the degree of hydraulic needling calendaring creeping or any other post treatment affecting open cell formation the level of absorbency and liquid release may be controlled for the material. One skilled in the art could see how such a variables along with basis weight could be used to obtain the capacity and rate that may be desired for the particular needs of a specific absorbent foam layer . The absorbent foam layer of the present invention may be a thermoplastic absorbent foam having a basis weight between about 83 and about 112 grams per squared meter.

The mop assembly of the present invention may include additional functionality by the addition of various functional substances to the mob substrate of the invention. Any substance that is typically used either commercially or domestically in combination with a cleaning tool may be pre loaded into the mob substrate . Thus instead of using a separate substance along with their mop duster or wiper the user could use a cleaning tool utilizing a substrate of the present invention that is pre loaded with such a substance. The pre loaded substrates could then be used to clean a surface or transfer such substances to the surface.

For example a floor wax could be incorporated into the absorbent foam substrate. Rather than adding a floor wax to a mop bucket the pre loaded mop substrate could be attached to a mop handle and the user could wax the floor by transfer of the floor wax out of the mop substrate . This is but one example of how such functional substance may be used others are possible. Additionally such substances may be delivered from the substrate through rubbing the substrate on the surface by applying pressure to the substrate be activated through use of the substrate in combination with water or other similar method.

Non limiting examples of such functional substances may include cleaning solutions soaps degreasers disinfectants sanitizers antibacterial substances glass cleaner surface protective wax surface polish insecticide or the like. More specifically the functional substances may optionally contain effective amounts of surface cleaning agents such as quaternary compounds proton donating antibacterial cleaning agents hydrophobic antibacterial cleaning agents chlorine stabilized cleaning agents peroxide based cleaning agents natural surfactants and the like. Other such compositions as are known in the art for cleaning protecting or improving surfaces may also be likewise pre loaded on the mop substrate .

Such functional substances may be added to the surface of or incorporated into either of the scrubbing layers added to the surface of or incorporated into the absorbent foam layer positioned between the layers or any combination thereof. Numerous well known methods are available for the addition of such substances to the substrate. By way of non limiting example the substances may be added by spray coating slot coating brush coating saturation dip and squeeze and the like. Similarly the substance may also be microencapsulated and added to the substrate.

Additionally as discussed above the absorbent foam the scrubbing material and the bonding configuration used to bond the layers together may also be balanced to provide a desired metering of such a functional substance from the substrate. By controlling the open cell content the basis weight and the post treatment of the foam one skilled in the art would understand that the amount of functional substance and the speed that it was released from such an absorbent foam could be designed appropriately.

Regarding the scrubbing material the basis weight porosity materials used and the like could also be balanced to allow the functional substance to be used and or transferred to the desire surface upon which the substrate is being used. The substance is considered transferably in that at least a portion of the substance present within the substrate would be transferred from the substrate to the surface upon which the substrate is being used.

Finally as discussed previously the bonding method used to bond the scrubbing and absorbent foam layers together has an impact on the speed and the amount of functional substance that may be delivered out of the absorbent foam layer . For example if the substrate is bonded in the center such as illustrated in the functional substance could be delivered quickly to the desired surface on which the substrate is being used. If it desired that a functional substance included with the absorbent foam layer should be metered out at a slower rate a bonding configuration such as illustrated in may be appropriate.

One skilled in the art can see how the materials used and the bonding pattern that joins the layers together could be balanced and configured to provide a functional substance in the amount and at the rate that the user desires.

It will be appreciated that the foregoing examples and discussion given for purposes of illustration are not to be construed as limiting the scope of this invention which is defined by the following claims and all equivalents thereto.

