---

title: Apparatus and method for detection of radiation
abstract: Digital images or the charge from pixels in light sensitive semiconductor based imagers may be used to detect gamma rays and energetic particles emitted by radioactive materials. Methods may be used to identify pixel-scale artifacts introduced into digital images and video images by high energy gamma rays. Statistical tests and other comparisons on the artifacts in the images or pixels may be used to prevent false-positive detection of gamma rays. The sensitivity of the system may be used to detect radiological material at distances in excess of 50 meters. Advanced processing techniques allow for gradient searches to more accurately determine the source's location, while other acts may be used to identify the specific isotope. Coordination of different imagers and network alerts permit the system to separate non-radioactive objects from radioactive objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07391028&OS=07391028&RS=07391028
owner: Advanced Fuel Research, Inc.
number: 07391028
owner_city: East Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060228
---
The application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 656 980 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DETECTION OF RADIATION filed Feb. 28 2005 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government may have certain rights to this invention pursuant to work funded thereby at the TRANSIT RESEARCH BOARD TRB OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES under grants from IDEA Grant No. TRANSIT 42.

The ability to detect the unauthorized transportation of radioactive materials would be facilitated by a large scale network of radiation sensors. However the installation of such a network of radiation sensors would be costly and delay the readiness of the system.

Radiation sensing networks are being developed in Europe in case of a nuclear power plant accident. For example the Real time On line Decision Support RODOS system for off site emergency management in Europe is being planned to provide consistent and comprehensive information on present and future radiological situations the extent benefits and drawbacks of emergency actions and countermeasures and methodological support for making decisions on emergency response strategies. RODOS includes geographical meteorological and radiation propagation detection modules it also serves as a data accumulation point for radiological and atmospheric monitoring networks. Radiation sensing data provided by networked detectors would complement and enrich the radiation database like RODOS available to security authorities and disaster recovery agencies.

The ability to detect the unauthorized transportation of radioactive materials over a wide area is pressing due to the break up of countries having nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Radioisotope smuggling and black market sales of radioactive material has increased substantially in the recent past. A General Accounting Office report documents some of the International Atomic Energy Agency s IAEA 181 confirmed cases of illegal sales of nuclear material since 1992. Twenty of these incidents involved the transfer or attempted transfer of nuclear weapons useable material namely Pu 239 and 20 90 Highly Enriched Uranium HEU . Although the most ominous risk from rogue radiological material is related to HEU s use in the construction of a nuclear bomb HEU could also be used as the raw material for a Radiological Dispersal Device or dirty bomb . Indeed any radioisotope can be used in the construction of a dirty bomb. However some radioisotopes for example Cs 137 Sr 90 or Co 60 are more dangerous than others for this application. For example U 235 due to its comparatively low level of gamma ray activity is not nearly as dangerous as a comparable mass of Co 60. Dirty bombs would be economically devastating to a region due to the high expense for decontamination clean up and economic loss should one be detonated.

Radioactive material dispersed via the detonation of a conventional explosive would be economically devastating to the region affected. Access to non weapons usable nuclear material is typically easier than to HEU or Pu 239 magnifying the dirty bomb threat arising from non weapons usable materials. This threat is heightened by the fact that nuclear contraband is typically smuggled in quantities that rarely exceed one kilogram and that nearly all of the smuggling cases were detected due to police investigations. The clean up costs from even this small amount of radioactive material could be tremendous. It is better to detect the illegal transport of radiological materials and interdict it at an early stage.

A need exists for detecting the illegal transportation of radioactive material. There is a need for a cost effective and wide spread network of sensors that can detect radioactive material identify its location and provide an alert when this type of material is detected.

Embodiments of the present invention include a system that includes an imager with one or more pixels that are capable of interacting with high energy particles and relaying information with reference to the interaction of the high energy particle with the pixel while simultaneously obtaining an image. The system may also include at least one processor that is in communication with the imager which is able to determine that a pixel or pixels have interacted with one or more high energy particle. The system may further include an output device that reports the presence of the high energy particle.

The imagers may be any imager containing a pixilated photon detector including charge coupled device CCD imagers complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS imagers and imagers containing silicon germanium germanium silicon on sapphire indium gallium arsenide cadmium mercury telluride or gallium arsenide substrates and the like or combinations of these imagers. Security cameras traffic cameras transit cameras hand held cameras mobile law enforcement or traffic cameras cell phone cameras thermal infrared cameras and any combination of these cameras may also be used in embodiments of the present invention. The imagers used in the current invention may be stationary or movable. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the imagers are able to rotate about a vertical axis or pan and rotate about a horizontal axis or tilt. This allows the imager to track the position of the source of radioactive source of the high energy particles.

In certain embodiments high energy particles detected by the imager or imagers may be the product of a source of high energy particles which may be the source of nuclear decay of radioactive material. The source of high energy particles include but are not limited to ambient radiation radiation from natural sources radioactive materials nuclear devices dirty bombs and nuclear weapons either before or after detonation or combinations thereof. The high energy particles detected may preferably be produced from the nuclear decay of radioactive materials. The source of high energy particles may also be shielded.

The pixels of pixilated photon detector produce a signal when a high energy particle strikes the pixel and this signal is generally stronger than that of ambient background radiation. This signal may be a bright spot or dot on the image created by the imager. The processor identifies these dots. When a high energy particle strikes a pixel the charge of the pixel changes more significantly than when ambient light strikes the pixel causing a dot to form since the imager reads this change in charge as a bright spot on the image. The processor of the present invention identifies dots within the image and compares them to background. If the processor detects the dot in consecutive images a radiation event may have occurred.

In one embodiment of the present invention the processor is able to identify the presence of a radioactive particle as well as the source of the radioactive particle. The processor may be a computer a video image processor a human or any combination of these.

In another embodiment of the present invention the imager contains a thin square of pixels. The likelihood of a high energy particle striking the thin square of pixels is at a maximum maximum flux when the thin square of pixels is perpendicular to the source of the high energy particles. The likelihood of a high energy particle striking the thin square of pixels decreases as the imager is panned and or tilted away from the source or the source moves through the imagers field of view. In certain embodiments the processor is able to perform a gradient search to determine the maximum flux by driving the movement of one or more imagers until maximum flux is reached. In yet other embodiment several imagers perform a gradient search concurrently. The processor can then reference each imager and compare the photographic and or video images obtained from the imagers to determine the likely source of the high energy particles as the area where the images intersect. The imagers are preferably interconnected.

The movement of a source of high energy particles may also be determined over time thereby allowing the movement of the source to be followed. In a preferred embodiment of the current invention one or more imagers perform gradient searches while concurrently obtaining images of the area surrounding a radioactive source. The images and maximum flux are compared to the images and an object or objects in the images may be selected as likely containing or holding the radioactive source. The objects can be any animate or inanimate objects including for example motor vehicles airplanes trains subway cars people animals buildings vegetation luggage boxes bags handbags briefcases mail and combinations thereof.

The images obtained by the imagers may contain or illustrate the movement of objects within the view of the camera. In one embodiment of the present invention objects are mixed between images and or imagers allowing the source of the high energy particles to be located. In a preferred embodiment a visual determination of the source of high energy particles is made.

Output devices useful in embodiments of the present invention include an alarm system a photographic or video image an image on a monitor an audible sound a telephone call a radio transmission or multiples or combinations of these.

In further embodiments of the present invention the type of radioactive material or radioisotope that is producing the high energy particles can be determined. The number and energy of the high energy particles may be quantified based in the change in charge of the pixel with which the high energy particle has interacted. This quantification may be compared to a library of charge changes based on the type of radioactive material producing high energy particles and used to determine the amount and or type of radioactive material in the source.

In certain embodiments detection may be checked for false positive detection of radioactive material either prior to or following activation of an alarm system.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description appended claims and accompanying drawings.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present compositions and methods which will be limited only by the appended claims.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a gamma ray is a reference to one or more gamma rays and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where the event occurs and instances where it does not.

Pixilated image detectors such as charge coupled CCD devices and complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS devices may utilize a light sensitive pixilated chip containing semiconductor material to create modern digital still and video images. While these pixilated chips have been effectively used to create conventional CCD and CMOS cameras such chips may also be sensitive to high energy particles and may be used as detectors for astrophysical sources of X rays and gamma rays digital X ray mammography and for high energy physics experiments at particle accelerators.

Pixilated chips may be used in a variety of image detectors including but not limited to still or video cameras camera phones webcams netcams security cameras traffic cameras or any combination of these. These image detectors may be easy to use readily available directly digitize data interface with computers easily have exceptional quantum efficiency low noise and a linear response to photon energy high energy particles and gamma rays emitted from sources of radioactive material. When a photon gamma ray or high energy particle strikes a pixel in the light sensitive pixilated chip electrons may move into the conduction band of the material providing a charge or potential proportional to the number and energy of particles incident and transparent to the pixel. Thus higher energy photons may produce larger numbers of counts within the affected pixels allowing the processor to determine light versus shadow and the color of the light. However in the case of a high energy particle or gamma ray static like bright spots usually 1 2 or 4 pixels in size may be created on the resulting image allowing for the identification of high energy particles and potentially radioactive material. Furthermore the brightness of the spots may depend upon the energy of the particle that strikes the pixel. As such the type of radioactive material may also be determined using devices containing light sensitive pixilated chips.

A pixel refers to a detector element unit cell for converting electromagnetic radiation to signal electrons by the photoelectric effect. The generated charge may be collected and may depend upon the number of pixels and or the amount of charge the pixels can hold. The formation of a particular well for a pixel may depend upon the dopant and concentration and that different processing techniques may be used to tailor the doping profiles to optimize a sensing operation for a particular energy of electromagnetic radiation. Substrates for pixels may be a p type silicon substrate however other options may also be used such as p on p substrates or p on p substrates SOI BiCMOS or the like. Further other semiconductor substrates for example silicon germanium germanium silicon on sapphire and or gallium arsenide substrates among many others may be used. It should be understood that pixels may be aligned in an M N array accessed using row and column select circuitry.

Detecting radioactive material may involve sorting through environmental monitoring data for the effects of high energy particles neutrons or gamma rays s emitted from the spontaneous decay of fissionable isotopes. Nuclear decay may generally involve the ejection of an alpha particle Helium nucleus or beta particle electron or positron with energy in excess of one MeV Million Electron Volts 1.6 10ergs . Gamma ray photons may also be emitted from the nucleus during spontaneous decay with energy in the range of about 10 KeV to several MeV depending on the isotope and decay mode. The measurement of each photon s energy may be performed using a variety of detector technologies.

The method for detecting the presence of signals characteristic of photons striking the pixilated detector is composed of steps. When it is determined that a statistically significant increase in signal in an image or pixel has occurred as the result of high energy particles striking the detector e.g. 25 above normal background for a sufficiently long amount of time e.g. for 3 or 4 images in a row a radiation event may be taking place. A radiation event may refer to an increase in the ambient level of radiation that is deemed to be in excess of normal statistical fluctuations.

If the counts or identity of an event measured by a detector is determined to be hazardous an alert may be initiated by communicating relevant information to a network aware layer. Optionally advanced command control coordination activities may be initiated including a gradient search to localize the source within the camera s field of view perform triangulation from multiple cameras and stream alert and video to designated individuals computers. For cameras with a fixed known position the position of the camera may be used to approximate the location of a source or radioactive material. In addition the position of one or more fixed cameras may be included in calculations to triangulate the location of the radioactive material.

In one embodiment in the case of two dimensional radiation location a computer or processor may use the information received from one or more cameras including camera location and image data to compute radiation intensity identify a type of material identity compute an approximate position or any combination of these. The location of the radiation for a small source identified may be approximated from initial images and further refined or tracked with subsequent images from the cameras. The extent of a plume of radiation may be monitored based on images and counts from the cameras. Any of several different optimization procedures may be used to optimize the position of an identified radiation source. In one embodiment the processor may first obtain a rough estimate of the object s location by a conventional method such as triangulation. Other optimization approaches may also be used. For example a standard technique such as an iterative progression through trial and error to converge to the maximum may be used. Also a gradient search may be used to optimize the position of a source. The method may be extended to three dimensions to select a point x y z as the best estimate of the radioactive object s location in three dimensions.

Pixilated image detectors that can produce charge carriers in response to interaction with a photon or energetic particle may be used to provide radioactive detectors. Pixilated image detector equipped cameras have become ubiquitous for security transit and traffic monitoring. Non limiting examples of such image detectors may include CCD and CMOS cameras including pre existing security or monitoring cameras that utilized these imaging processors. These detection devices may typically be networked and monitored from an operations center and when combined with firmware or software may be used to determine whether one or more pixels have a charge or voltage corresponding to a high energy particle or gamma ray interaction and to detect ambient radiation and radioactive materials the amount and type of material that is emitting high energy particles and the movement of a radioactive material that is the source of the detected high energy particles.

For example when the detector is near e.g. less than 100 meters for energy of about 3 MeV or less a radioactive source a corresponding increase in the rate of gamma rays striking the pixilated image detector may result. Because the level of background radiation is low e.g. 

In addition to sending the images and position of the CCD or CMOS imager the imager unit may also be configured to transmit encoded information such as the orientation of the camera the temperature of the location the time and the like.

In a monitoring configuration the system or apparatus may perform continuous sampling. The system or apparatus may acquire a digital image of the environment or an object from a digital camera or digital detector. In a fast survey configuration the system may be configured to perform non continuous sampling from one or more images taken on demand or at longer intervals than that described elsewhere.

The sensitivity of the imager to different high energy photons may be determined using count information and calibration data from both modeling and empirical experiments. For example an imager may be exposed to a series or known radioactive materials such as Co 60 U 235 Bi 214 and the like at a known distance. The charge or brightness frequency of counts and ratio of intensities charge or brightness may be determined. This information may be used to calculate the energies of gamma rays detected by the imager.

Simulations using the MCNP software package developed by the Diagnostics Applications Group of Los Alamos National Lab Los Alamos National Laboratory Report LA 10363 MS 1995 may be used to show that the detectors and system described can provide statistically significant detections of a wide range of radioactive species. Experimental results confirming the utility of this model are illustrated in successfully detected Cobalt 60 and Cesium 137 using 1 10 C samples as shown in .

Gamma rays may be emitted by radioisotopes at specific energies that are characteristic of the emitting nucleus internal structure. A gamma ray detector able to determine the energy of individual photons may therefore unambiguously identify the type of nucleus that emitted the radiation. This type of spectroscopy is similar to optical spectroscopy in that the detection and identification of just a few features is sufficient to characterize the source of radiation. Whereas optical spectroscopy may often be photon starved and require the collection of numerous photons at each discrete wavelength gamma rays have so much energy individually that each gamma ray photon that interacts with a pixilated image detector may lead to a statistically significant data feature. The unique energy spectrum of gamma rays emitted from a radioactive material may be used to differentiate false detection from real detection.

An energy spectrum for gamma rays striking pixels in an imager may be obtained from an analysis of the image. Radioisotope identification via gamma ray spectroscopy may involve reference library look ups comparisons and decomposing a gamma spectrum into spectra from individual isotopes. The type of comparison may include the cross correlation technique which is a technique often used for comparing spectra having multiple lines a variety of matching algorithms for spectral and time series applications Principal Component Analysis combinations of these or combinations that include any of these. Therefore analysis software may be developed that measures this brightness of the spot determines the energy spectrum of the particle and compares this information to a library spectra to allow the identification of the particular radioisotopes emitting high energy particles. The software may be used to distinguish gamma rays emitted for example by Co 60 as compared to Cs 137. Subsequent images may be analyzed as needed to confirm the results of the identification or the counts or identity of the material obtained from one imager may be compared to other nearby detectors to confirm the results of the first detector. If the energy spectrum from multiple detected gamma rays matches a harmful material a warning may be issued.

More specifically an estimate of the statistical significance of each individual gamma ray photon may be obtained by comparing its interaction with the detector with the effect that a single optical photon has on the detector. The number of electrons counted per photon may depend on both the energy of the incident photon and the instrument s gain typically expressed as electrons per ADU analog digital unit . A blue light photon having 4 eV of energy will produce on average 3.1 photo electrons in a particular pixel for a Kodak KAF 1001E CCD a particular model CCD used in high end digital image applications . An initial estimate may be that a 200 KeV gamma ray would yield 3.1 e ADU 200 000 eV 4 eV 165 000 photo electrons. However only a portion of the gamma ray s energy may be transferred to the pixilated chip. The MCNP model simulations may suggest that the transfer of energy is significant. For example a 766 KeV photon produced in a U 238 decay will produce 500 photoelectrons counts while a 1.001 MeV ray will produce 2000 counts. These numbers may be a lower limit of counts for detecting a gamma ray as they include energy deposition in the silicon part of the upper area of the pixilated chip. It is likely that the metal leads SiOcovering doping impurities or other factors may modify or enhance the transfer of energy into the pixilated chip. These counts may permit firmware or software to be used to identify the one or more pixel locations at which the high energy gamma ray was deposited based on the number of counts over a threshold. The total counts or the number of photoelectrons produced by a gamma ray or a value proportional to this may be based on the charge or voltage produced by the one or more pixels in the detector due to the gamma ray.

When analyzing materials which potentially emit detectable energetic particles from one or more radioactive sources the system and methods may be used to analyze or estimate the level of radioactive sources in the material based on the amount of signal received from the CCD or CMOS detectors. Variations in the amount and type of radioactive sources shielding the amounts and types of material in which the emitters are present or dispersed in the geometric distribution of emitters in a sample versions of the system and detectors may be used to characterize these features of the source.

Simulations using the MCNP software package for the expected count rate arising from various shielded radioisotopes were performed and it was determined that a CCD detector may be used to monitor a large variety of radioactive materials. Contributions to source shielding are possible and the simulations included 1 mm lead shielding self attenuation within the radioactive source two sheets of thick steel to represent a vehicle or a container s body panels and a sheet of plate glass conservative estimate of detector window and a variable distance air gap. The gamma ray intensity may depend upon material type and amount distance geometry and shielding. Even when the absolute number of gamma rays detected is low the individual gamma rays may achieve very high significance because of their high energy and the spectral signature of those gamma rays unique to the isotope.

It is reasonable to expect that the lower limit of precision for determining the energy of a gamma ray that interacts with the imager would be the Signal to Noise Ratio SNR of the counts for individual detections. This precision may be approximately equal to the square root of the counts associated with individual gamma ray hits on the light sensitive chip. The energy precision may be written as the uncertainty in energy E divided by the Energy E or E E. For strictly Poisson statistics counts counts 1 counts 

Noise may typically result from three sources read out electronics dark current and statistical uncertainty of the source counts themselves shot noise . Read out noise may be predominantly determined by the quality of the electronics. Modern pixilated image detectors and controllers typically have a very low level of noise.

Dark current may be a CCD or CMOS imager chip specific value usually expressed as the number of electrons per pixel per second on average which accumulate during an exposure or image integration period. Dark current counts may accumulate regardless of whether light or gamma rays that are transparent to the electrodes are hitting the chip. The total of such counts may depend upon the rate and total integration time. The rate of accumulation may depend strongly on the CCD or CMOS temperature where the rate may roughly double for each increase of 6 10 C. of the chip. The effect of dark current upon image quality and therefore the ability to detect gamma rays with as little computational effort as possible may be insignificant for short integration times with modern cameras in good repair. By basing the detector for example on a video system with a frame rate of roughly 10 to 20 frames per second the dark current even when the chip is warm may be negligible compared to the expected hundreds to thousands of counts per gamma ray. This large signal may ensure excellent counting statistics and aid in energy determination enabling accurate identification of radioactive source despite ambient radiation in the local environment. While changes in temperature may be used to modify or detect ambient noise for a CCD or CMOS imager unlike Ge based sensors the CCD or CMOS detectors do not need to be cooled to detect high energy particles.

Shot noise may generate the most significant source of noise for security cameras. Model calculations suggest that a 1 MeV photon would be expected to have an uncertainty in the energy determination of approximately 1 2000 0.022 or 2.2 . Laboratory measurements show the measured counts for a lower energy gamma ray photon from Cesium 137 to be about 200 counts with an implied uncertainty of 7 per spectroscopic feature. Since most radioisotopes that emit gamma rays have multiple energies the unique spectral fingerprint may be preserved even with these error estimates.

Variation in the number of gamma rays that strike the detector may be eliminated using statistical methods and the use of more than one detector may also be used to account for these variations.

Using one or more pixel based detectors capable of detecting and characterizing energetic particles a moving radioactive source emitting detectable energetic particles may be observed. The light sensitive chip within the pixilated image detector may generally be in the form of a thin square. When the thin square is positioned perpendicularly to the source of the light or high energy particles the probability of the photon or high energy particle striking a pixel within the chip may be maximized. This phenomenon is referred to as maximum flux. The probability of a photon or high energy particle striking a pixel within the chip may decrease as the source moves through the field of view of the detector. Therefore as the source of high energy particles moves through the field of view of a static pixilated image detector See the number of high energy particles striking the light sensitive chip may increase over time as the source maintains a perpendicular position time 0 in regard to the chip and may decrease until the source has left the detector s field of view time 20 .

A pixilated image detector that is capable of moving may also be utilized to identify the source of photons or high energy particles. Movement of a detector such as but not limited to being panned rotating along a vertical axis and tilting rotating along a horizontal axis may be able to perform a gradient search whereby the camera is rotated horizontally or vertically until maximum flux is determined. In this way one or more pixilated image detectors may identify the location or track the movement of the photons or high energy particles source.

Buses ferries trains patrol cars or other transport vehicles are often outfitted with security cameras which may be used to detect radioactivity. Such cameras may also serve as roving detectors. In an embodiment the metal sides of the cameras may not be significantly thicker than that of cars.

Although the use of a single detector may provide important information about a radioactive material even more information may be obtained when additional detectors are used together and their outputs are combined. Computer programs may be used to integrate the output from several detectors. One advantage of the disclosed system and methods may be networking detectors or cameras in close proximity to one another. Another advantage of the disclosed system and methods may be the ability to network existing detectors or cameras in close proximity to one another. Many different topologies of networks of monitoring stations may be used. For example in one version multiple monitoring stations may be established by using the existing security cameras. If a radioactive source were to be carried past these detectors separate radiation events may be detected at each imager or camera. Trains buses passenger cars people and or animals with radiation emitting material moving near an imager may be expected to show a radiation profile. Similar scenarios may apply for people on a train platform buses on the road or vehicular traffic at a bridge tunnel. Where multiple detectors are in proximity to one another it may be reasonable to expect each to have a time series response similar in shape to that shown in but having different intensities or lack of symmetry depending on the motion speed and position of the source with respect to the imager.

By networking the detectors the speed and direction of the vehicle or individual carrying a material that emits high energy particles like gamma rays from a radioactive source may be determined. Although in crowded road or urban settings it may not be possible initially to uniquely identify a vehicle or person a carrier in possession or transporting a radioactive material normal traffic shear and mixing may separate the carrier of radioactive material from the other vehicles and pedestrians that are initially considered potential carriers.

In general there may be more than one object of interest person car package suitcase etc. in the field of view of the detector. However when the radioactive source has traveled or been carried to the next camera it is likely that some of the original surrounding objects people cars packages suitcases etc will no longer be in close proximity to the radioactive source as illustrated in and . Therefore as radiation events are picked up by sequential cameras the identity of the specific object containing or carrying the radioactive source may become better constrained. Sequential detections by a series of cameras may help to eliminate the innocent bystanders or vehicles from those being identified as the source of the radioactive material. These sequential detections may also serve to significantly reduce or eliminate false positive detections.

In a transit environment the importance of networked cameras is likely to yield even faster more robust identification of a source of material or an object responsible for emitting high energy photons that can be detected. For example typical metro stations and similar facilities are designed to have at least two security cameras able to view the entire station. Simultaneous detections by these CCD or CMOS cameras may be used to provide an important corroboration on detected radiation increase confidence in warnings or alerts issued and aid in making tactical decisions. Moreover since there are radiation absorbing concrete walls in many stations security cameras may detect the sudden appearance of a radioactive source. In such a situation it may be possible to uniquely identify the individual or source responsible for the detector signal.

The pixilated image detectors used for high energy photon energy detection may contribute to a node in a network of radiation monitoring sites. Such cameras can sample their local radiation environment. Any increase in radioactivity may be identified verified and communicated to the relevant emergency response center or centers. The identity of the radioisotope s by the system and cameras may also be communicated. If a large scale release of radioactivity occurred whatever the cause functioning nodes may communicate the ambient activity level permitting the rapid mapping and forecasting of the spread of radioactive debris. The large scale monitoring of radioactivity and alert capability may be more wide spread as transit or other security systems are installed such as the Federal Highway Administration s implementation of an intelligent highway system.

The pixilated image detection system may further include alert propagation and command and control protocols. Data collected by one or more detectors may be gathered and transmitted to appropriate destinations for action or storage. Multi jurisdictional concepts of operations for situations that cut across facility local state and or federal areas of responsibility may be facilitated in this manner. Common Internet protocols may be used to enable users to view video frames and updated alert data in real time on standard PCs and wireless mobile handheld devices. These systems may be deployed ubiquitously with support for legacy infrastructure to ensure a reliable secure and scalable platform.

Referring to a method for detecting gamma radiation is described. In step a CCD or CMOS imager may collect an image of an area volume or combination of objects. In step any high energy particles such as gamma rays from the decay of a radioactive material in the area imaged may strike the imager or one or more pixels in the imager creating an artifact in the image. In step the image from the imager may be analyzed for artifacts from high energy particles. For example the charge may be determined for individual pixels of the image and or the image may be analyzed to determine the brightness of the pixels. The image may be analyzed for objects imaged by the imager and artifacts due to gamma rays. In step a determination may be made as to whether artifacts in the image from gamma rays interacting with the detector are present. If no artifacts are produced from gamma ray interaction the routine may continue to step and a determination may be made as to whether to continue image collection. If artifacts are produced from gamma ray interaction the routine may continue with step where additional images or frames of the area may be taken. In step a determination may be made as to whether the artifacts persist in the image. If the artifacts do not persist the routine may return to step . If artifacts persist a warning that gamma rays were detected may be issued. In step intensive monitoring may be initiated. This may include a gradient search of images that have artifacts evaluation of images from other cameras scanning or panning cameras issuing additional alerts and or other acts to identify the source.

Referring to an embodiment of a method for analysis of an image is illustrated. The method may include flagging the image as one where a gamma ray detection event was detected in step . Next a determination in step as to whether a sufficient number of images have been flagged for detected radiation may be made. If so an alarm or alert may be issued. If not the imager may be instructed in step to collect an additional image. The image may be analyzed for artifacts due to gamma rays that have interacted with the imager. In step a determination may be made as to whether gamma rays were detected in the image. If gamma rays are detected the image may be flagged as a detection event in step and the routine may continue. If not a determination may then be made in step as to whether to continue image collection. If so the routine may return to step .

An example of a method for generating an alarm or alert is illustrated in . Where an alarm is requested the routine may provide a warning indication in step . A determination as to whether to perform additional image analysis or scans may be made in step . If additional analysis is requested additional images may be obtained a gradient search of the image or analysis of multiple images to identify the source or analysis and comparison of images from multiple detectors or scanning a detector s other analysis or a combination of these may be performed in step . A determination may be made based on the analysis and results from step as to whether to continue the analysis. If so step may be repeated and additional images and or analysis may be obtained. If not the routine may terminate.

The system illustrated in may include a central processing unit CPU having corresponding input output ports read only memory ROM or any suitable electronic storage medium containing processor executable instructions and calibration values random access memory RAM and a data bus of any suitable configuration. The controller may receive signals from a variety of individual pixels or from the pixilated imager or detector sensors coupled to cameras or stand alone detectors and or as part of a vehicle. The processing unit may be used to control the operation and or motion of the sensors a view taken by the sensors and or accept and output information to or from the sensors detectors. The controller may be connected to an input device such as a keyboard. The controller may perform data analysis or send information from detectors to a central processing unit . Information from the sensors may be provided directly to a receiving station or through a transmitter in a known manner.

Camera phone and other portable devices for example in may be configured for remote placement and interconnection with a network of other sensors. These devices may be solar powered and may be designed to connect to the network in the event that one or more energetic particles are detected. Portions of a network of detectors may be activated to detect energetic particles when one or more primary detectors senses energetic particles having energies within one or more predetermined energy windows or above a threshold amount. The activated network may monitor the movement of the radioactive source material.

Some radioisotopes are easier to detect than others. The calculations and examples in the disclosure are based on U 235 which compared to Co 60 is more difficult to detect and serve as a guide to the applicability of radiation detection systems based on semiconductor materials where the counts produced by a photon incident on a pixel is proportional to the energy of the incident gamma ray produced by the source of radiation. Although the examples and calculations disclosed herein are based on U 235 the system methods and apparatus may be used for the detection of high energy photons from any radioactive material that undergoes nuclear decay. These CCD and CMOS imager devices have a linear response to the incident photon energy. While U 235 may be used as an example of a material that produces detectable high energy photons the claims and disclosure are not limited to any particular radioactive material.

Instructions or programs which may be in firmware computer programs contained permanently in a hardware device as a read only memory EPROM or software may include various routines that identify radioisotopes according to the energy spectrum of the detected radioactivity. These programs may also include the capability to accept and analyze data from remote networked digital cameras issue distributed alerts and use network infrastructure to coordinate detections from multiple detectors. Versions of the system for detecting and identifying radioactive material with pixilated imagers may be used to form an inexpensive dense network of radiation detectors. Such a detector network may supply continuous real time detection and tracking of radioactive sources over a wide area and range of environments such as highways factories cities hospitals other institutions and other urban or rural locations.

For example shows a portion of a typical astronomical CCD image. The spots that result from high energy particles cosmic rays ambient radioactive sources and gamma rays striking the CCD during the exposure may be identified using an automatic identification program. This system may perform real time identification once the detection parameters are set. Due to the uniformity of CCD light detection characteristics setting the detection parameters may only be performed once for a given type of camera. Once a prototype camera is set up other systems using that specific type of detector may operate using the same settings or with only a short calibration check.

Instructions and routines in software or firmware may be used to determine the statistical significance of each peak pixel output compared to the ambient noise. The routines may begin with a scan through the image data looking for very high count rate pixels. The routines may further include comparing high count rate pixel peaks to neighboring pixels using statistical tests. The statistical tests may include minimum thresholds minimum ratios peak to neighbor use of detector and electronics characteristics or combinations of tests including these. Statistical tests and programs may be used to provide detection probabilities with low false positive outcomes. Additional checks and comparisons of the detector signal may be used to further suppress spurious alerts.

Potential sources of false positive outcomes include background radiation Cosmic Rays CRs sudden increases due to rain washing from the air naturally occurring decay products of Radon 222 Bismuth 214 and Lead 214 and the decay of Ra 222 itself. Background activity may usually be very low as is the system noise so detection of bona fide radioactive sources may be accomplished with a very high degree of statistical confidence. Data screening tests of information received from detectors and cameras may be used to minimize false positive outcomes. These may include tests for appropriateness of detected spectra and persistence of the signal in multiple exposures. In addition a vehicle or person carrying nuclear material may trigger one radiation event after another. Such a moving detection may clearly identify a bona fide source and may not arise from background radiation cosmic rays or any other local radiation artifact. Finally a large radiation release may yield distributed persistent activity over the region affected.

In conclusion a system and method for the detection and identification of radioactive isotopes may include an apparatus based on a semiconductor material that may obtain photographic or video images of objects and simultaneously detect high energy particles that interact with digital still and video camera imagers. The apparatus may use CCD and CMOS based images. These detector or imagers and other digital detectors of electromagnetic radiation and charged particles may in addition to detecting light detect energetic particles and high energy photons emitted from radioactive isotopes. The images from the one or more CCD or CMOS imagers may be transferred to a computer using a frame grabber or imaging board connected by for example a cable or a PCI bus to a processor. Images may also be transferred using infrared data transfer radio waves or other electromagnetic waves used in communication devices. The images may be stored on a disk for retrieval and further analysis the images may be stored in a compressed format. Image sequences may be captured at full or reduced frame rates. Image data from the imagers may be sent to acquisition equipment and then to the data processing equipment including computers and other digital or analog data manipulation and analysis machinery. An analysis of image data transferred from the above components of the system may be used to detect the presence of radioactivity.

An analysis of the images from one imager may be compared to analyzed images from other nearby imagers to determine if a false positive conclusion has occurred. Nearby cameras should be able to detect gamma rays detected by the first imager and the energies and ratio of energies detected should be similar and may be compared using statistical and logic based tests to verify the persistence and or consistency of the radioactivity measured. The location of hot spots or bright spots in an image due to gamma rays emitted from a terrestrial source of radioactive material may be used with the images of objects in the imager s field of view to locate the position of the radioactivity.

Various aspects of embodiments disclosed will be illustrated with reference to the following non limiting examples. The examples below are merely representative of the work that contributes to the teaching of the present invention and the present invention is not to be restricted by the examples that follow.

This example illustrates the ability of an imager to detect high energy particles and illustrates the sensitivity of the detector.

The functionality and sensitivity of the various imagers to detect gamma rays still and video from different manufacturers were performed. In each experiment the cameras were operated without modifications according to their standard directions. Exposures were alternately made with and without radioactive material near the camera body. The images taken without a nearby source served as control experiments. In general it was expected that very few of the control experiment images should display the small pixel scale dots caused by radiation strikes on the detector. It is also reasonable to expect some but not necessarily all of the images also called frames exposures or collectively data to contain such artifacts.

In one series of laboratory tests a digital video camera manufactured by Logitech specifically the Quickcam for Notebook Pro was used. That camera contains a 1280 960 pixel Charge Coupled Device CCD . In a second series of tests an Olympus Camedia C 700 digital still camera which contains a 1600 1200 CCD was used. Both cameras were exposed without modifications to small unregulated radioactive sources. When exposed to these sources gamma rays were successfully detected as very small distinct white dots.

When collecting radiation sensitivity data three radioactive sources see Table 1 1 1 C Cobalt 60 2 5 C Cesium 137 and 3 10 C Cesium 137 were used. These sources were ordered from Spectrum Techniques Inc. of Oak Ridge Tenn. Spectrum Techniques provides calibrated radiation sources for experimental laboratory work. The Cobalt 60 source emits powerful 1.17 MeV and 1.33 MeV gamma rays. These energetic rays are very penetrating with only half of such gamma rays being absorbed after traversing 11 mm of lead. Cesium 137 emits 0.66 MeV gamma rays which are about half as penetrating as are those from Co 60. Half of Cesium 137 s gamma rays penetrate 5.5 mm of lead. The fact that gamma rays pass through significant amounts of lead shielding makes it very unlikely that radioactive sources large enough to be dangerous could be surrounded by enough shielding to avoid detection if the system sensitivity is large enough. Preliminary results of sensitivity are discussed vide infra.

In order to assess the ultimate sensitivity of the method Geiger Muller counter data were collected under as nearly identical conditions as possible to the Logitech webcam CCD data. The detector chosen was a Quartex model RD8901 manufactured by Quarta in Russia. The detector s calibration has been verified to be correct to within 10 accuracy at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The detector was positioned approximately 1.5 cm from the sources with a 1 16th inch thick piece of acrylic plastic in between the source and detector. The plastic was used to provide nominally equivalent shielding to that of the webcam cover. Normal operation for the Quartex detector is to collect data for 31 to 33 seconds and then indicate the hourly radiation exposure level in micro Roentgen hour. The resulting count rate average over a 6 minute sampling period is shown in Table 1 for the Cobalt 60 sample. The other sources overloaded the detector and no reliable count rates were obtained.

Results for system sensitivity. The Olympus camera was used just with source 1. With the 1 C Cobalt disk lying flat against the rear side of the camera flush against its LCD view panel there was one 1 gamma ray hit in one of ten 0.5 second exposures. In 44 control experiments with no radioactive source there was no evidence of a gamma ray detection of the camera.

More extensive experiments with the Logitech webcam were performed than with the digital still camera. In each of the webcam experiments data were collected for 15 seconds at 15 frames per second to produce movies comprised of approximately 225 frames. Control experiments were performed first with the camera surrounded by lead bricks and covered with a thick black cloth. The second series of tests were identical except that the Cobalt 60 and the two Cesium 137 sources were placed next to the webcam. The third series of tests had the camera uncovered aimed at the ceiling of the laboratory with no radioactive disk nearby the lead brick over the camera was removed but the side bricks were still in place. The final series of tests used the same set up as the previous series but for the inclusion of the two Cesium 137 sources. Details concerning the first two series of tests are discussed below and summarized in Table 2.

The control experiments consisted of four 15 second video clips representing individual data frames each 66.7 ms in duration. A total of four energetic particle strikes on the CCD were detected see A D for pixel locations . These were presumably due to cosmic ray impacts or nearby radioactive decay of a naturally occurring element such as Radon or its decay products or some other ambient source of background radiation. None of the four counts occurred closer than a few seconds to the others. This temporal gap between counts and or a minimum count rate can be used as criteria to trigger an alert and also as part of a false alarm suppression strategy.

An estimate of the statistical significance of these detections can be made to understand the value of the system as a warning device for radiation or for detection of ambient radioactivity. Consider separately the three source experiments having 24 counts 49 counts and 53 counts . The effective background radiation level was measured to be approximately one 1 count per 15 seconds of data in . Since radioactive decays follow Poisson distributions and the number of counts per data set is greater than 20 some estimates of the significance of the detections using Gaussian statistics arguments may be made. The approximate 1 uncertainty in the measurements is the square root of the measurement or 4.9 7 and 7.3 counts respectively for Source 1 Source 2 and Source 3. These values yield results of 24 4.9 counts 15 sec 49 7 counts 15 sec and 53 7.3 counts 15 sec. The first value is a few standard deviations away from the other two values it is possible that the webcam may have slid slightly toward the sources after the first experiment if so a translation of 7 mm would account for the variation observed. The significance of the detections expressed in multiples of their respective 1 uncertainties is significance value background uncertainty

The resulting significance of the detection of the radioactive source for the Source 1 experiment is 24 1 4.9 4.7 . The corresponding values for Source 2 and Source 3 are 6.9 and 7.1 respectively. In these experiments it was known that there really was a radioactive source nearby but that will not always be the case. It would be useful to know the likelihood for both false negative and false positive results. To determine the false negative results the probability that instead of recovering the expected number of counts a number close to the background rate is found. For count rates equal to those recorded in Table 2 the probability that a statistical anomaly would produce a false negative can be calculated by evaluating the Gaussian Probability Distribution. This can be done for a value equivalent to what would be considered normal for background as compared to the Total number of gamma rays detected called mean value in equation below using the 1 values. This probability is 

For Source 1 this probability is about 1 in 100 000 for Source 2 and Source 3 it is more than an order of magnitude lower. The system s sensitivity therefore makes it very robust against false negative results i.e. if the ambient radiation is at least as intense as the very low laboratory conditions the count rate will be high enough to make a detection. Moreover a radioactive source will most likely be near a detector for an extended time or else pass by multiple detectors. Therefore the risk of missing a source is correspondingly reduced by the number of 15 second periods spent near a detector.

To calculate the false positive probability the same equation would be used except the background rate and mean value definitions are reversed and the 1 now corresponds to that of the background count rate which is correspondingly lower. For the extremely low background rate observed approximately 1 count per 15 seconds the variance is ill defined from a Gaussian statistics perspective a much longer exposure would be needed to fix it firmly. However a rough order of magnitude estimate for the 1 uncertainty would be 1 count the square root of 1 . Using a value of 1 for a means that a false positive alert at the level of Source 1 would be a 25 occurrence i.e. a formal probablility 

Expected field sensitivity for imagers may be based upon scaling arguments using results of laboratory detections. The Federation of American Scientists performed a number of calculations to assess the likely impact of various dirty bomb scenarios. The results of their detailed investigations can be found on the FAS website FAS Public Interest Report 55 N.2 2002 . One of these case studies considered the case of a 10 000 Curie source of Cobalt 60. Such a source is 109 times more active than the 10 Ci Cesium source and 10times more active than the 1 Ci Cobalt source. In a preliminary calculation the source geometry or self shielding were not changed. As distance between source and detector increases the main effect is a fall off of intensity that is proportional to the square of the distance between source and detector. The laboratory detections took place with a 1.5 cm distance. With the above assumptions for a source 10times more active than our Cobalt 60 source a comparable detection could be made when it is 10 1.5 cm 1500 meters away while a source 10times more active would be detectable roughly 470 meters away. However air attenuation becomes important for distances greater than roughly 100 meters at which point air becomes an important component of the shielding calculations. Since the calculated distances exceed the distance over which air attenuation becomes important a conservative estimate for an effective range for the detectors under these conditions would be several hundred meters however greater ranges are possible. Alternatively at closer separations a stronger signal of radioactivity would be detected or a less active source could be detected.

This prophetic example illustrates the use of a CCD or CMOS camera or video camera to detect gamma rays from a radioactive material.

One or more CCD or CMOS imagers may be used to sample a region or objects in the environment to determine if radioactive materials are present. An image from each of the cameras may have the charge at each pixel determined using the imager s hardware to detect pixels with high charge caused by photoelectrons generate by gamma rays. Alternatively the image may be analyzed using software or firmware from the camera or a central processor connected to the camera to detect gamma ray artifacts. The data signature of a gamma ray may include one or more pixels having high charge or brightness above a background or threshold level. The charge brightness and frequency of the pixels struck by the gamma rays emitted from a source or radioactive material is expected to be greater than the charge or brightness for the same pixels interacting with ambient light or background radiation.

Software may be used to evaluate the images from an imager and conduct a series of steps to reduce eliminate false positive alerts. These steps may include acquiring additional images calibrating the detector comparison of the image and detected high energy particles with images from other nearby cameras comparing the counts to a threshold comparison of the identity of the energy of the gamma rays detected with a library of known radioactive isotopes to determine if a match is possible assembling one or more images to determine if the radioactive source is moving and if the detected high energy particles correspond to the movement of the object in the image or any combination of these acts.

Where high energy particles above a predetermined level are detected in pixels or images from the imagers warnings or alerts may optionally be issued to system operators or others if there is a persistent statistically significant radiation artifact or signature in one or more pixels or images that correspond to a radioactive material.

Where high energy particles above a predetermined level and or frequency are detected an intensive study of the images or pixels from the cameras can be performed to more precisely locate the source or radioactive material and identify its composition. Optionally cameras detecting gamma rays may be coordinated to triangulate the radiation source location to a small volume and to improve specificity of radioisotope identification. The location and identity of the detected radioactive source may be disseminated to system operators or others in updated alerts.

One non limiting way of checking the pixels or image from an imager is to evaluate the four closest pixels 4CP in digital image data. If the pixel or image data point under consideration is X Y then the 4CP are X 1 Y X Y 1 X 1 Y and X Y 1 . The local background value of the imager can be taken as the average of the eight pixels corresponding to X 2 Y 2 X Y 2 X 2 Y 2 X 2 Y X 2 Y X 2 Y 2 X Y 2 X 2 Y 2 alternatively if a known reference object is in the field it may be set to be the background and the average of the pixels or data points corresponding to the object set to the background.

In one mode of operation as illustrated in a digital camera digital video camera takes a picture and in another step the digital image s may be transmitted to computer . The images may be searched for specific signatures of gamma ray strikes and may also include false positive tests . If evidence of a radioactive material is found the test may be repeated with the next available image otherwise begin again with the next image . If evidence still indicates bona fide detection of radioactivity alerts or warnings may be issued intensive monitoring may be initiated and data may be transmitted to a second stage monitor for inter camera coordination .

Additional false positive tests for example image to image hot pixel comparison in which it is determined if the same pixel s is are detecting high count rates image after image. 1 lot pixels if found to be a problem may usually be calibrated by one of several common techniques.

Intensive monitoring may include performing a gradient search to identify source identify specific radioisotope s and or issue a warning . Analysis of multiple alerts enables the system and operators to track and to identify the source of radioactivity .

The functions of the software or firmware for interpreting the images from a digital camera or pixel data from an imager chip having one or more pixels are shown in . Data from the imager is collected . Digital cameras are sensitive to decay products of radioactive materials energetic particles and gamma rays . If radiological materials are nearby some of the decay products may penetrate the camera body and strike the digital detector creating artifacts in the image .

Images from a digital camera may be analyzed for the presence of artifacts . If no evidence of radioactivity is detected image collection may continue . If evidence of radioactivity is detected optionally repeat the analysis on one or more additional frames . The repeated analyses may serve as a false positive screen . The analysis of frames may be continued until a sufficient number of frames show a radioactive material is present evidence persists or there is no radioactive material present evidence for radioactive material does not persist for example the counts image brightness or charge on pixels of the imager are consistently below a threshold . Where the evidence does not persist image collection may continue .

If the evidence for the presence of radiation persists an alert or warning may be issued by the system . The detectors may perform intensive monitoring by a gradient search to identify a detected source not necessarily initially within image video frame . Optionally multiple alerts may be analyzed to track and identify the source of radioactivity. As data are gathered further alerts may be disseminated . This information may include alerts collected from other digital cameras .

In digital images are collected from one or more cameras video cameras . The cameras may be used for security purposes and may be networked to an operation center. These digital cameras may be used to work as radiation detectors whether or not they are utilized for video security monitoring. The detectors e.g. CCD CMOS etc. are sensitive to energetic particles from radioactive decays. Gamma rays in particular are the most likely to both reach the detector and interact with it in such a way as to be detectable. The detectors manifest this sensitivity regardless of the direction from which the gamma rays enter the camera. The physical size e.g. in square inches of the detector and its angular orientation may determine the solid angle subtended by the detector from a radioactive source s perspective. A larger solid angle may produce a higher rate of gamma rays interacting with the detector. A radioactive source having a higher degree of activity e.g. more decays per second may produce a higher rate of gamma rays interacting with the detector. The data from each camera may be transmitted to a computer where the analysis is performed. The transmission may be via a cable network or electromagnetic radiation such as but not limited to radio waves. At later stages of the detection and analysis process the results from two or more cameras may be combined to provide greater detail.

Digital cameras are sensitive to decay products of radioactive materials energetic particles and gamma rays . If radiological materials are proximate some of the decay products will penetrate the camera body and strike the digital detector creating artifacts in the image. In images collected from the detector the absence of gamma rays may produce images without white flecks images or data with gamma ray detections may have white flecks B.

The analysis procedure may be run at specified intervals e.g. 3 times per second on demand e.g. click for analysis as fast as the camera can supply images and or the computer or computers can analyze them or other modes. Decisions made at steps and may influence the mode for image selection and rate.

Each image may be converted to a file format suitable for further processing e.g. FITS SDF etc. . Suitable programs to transfer a file into a suitable format are known in the art and include Graphic Converter by Thorsten Lemke or other similar programs. An image may be read into memory. A search may be performed on this image to look for the white flecks produced when gamma rays hit and interact with the digital detector. A combination of algorithms may be used to detect gamma ray hits in an image. The intensity of the white flecks may be used to determine the energy of the gamma ray hits and energy ratios for the hits may also be determined. For example the program BCLEAN which is a component of the Figaro software package developed by Keith Shortridge includes routines that may be used on CCD images to detect and remove bad lines and cosmic ray artifacts from an astronomical image. These routines and modifications of it may be used to detect gamma ray artifacts or hits in an image or a stored representation of an image from a CCD or CMOS imager. Rather than removing them from the image the routines may be used to identify and characterize gamma rays that strike the imager.

In an embodiment a variety of pixel intensity ratios may be calculated and used to identify extremely sharp peaked image features or pixels that may correspond to gamma rays. These pixels may be flagged and evaluated by other tests.

In an embodiment every pixel in an image may be evaluated based on a set of user or system constants. For example C 1 C 2 C 3 and C 4 may be user defined constants although fewer or more constants are also possible . A set of one or more tests to evaluate pixels in an image may include determining if a pixel data value is greater than zero determining if a pixel data value is greater than each of the four closest pixels 4CP in the image determining if a pixel data value is greater than the average of the 4CP by C 1 counts determining if a pixel data value is greater than the average of the 4CP by C 2 times that average determining if a pixel data value is greater than the average of the 4CP by C 3 times the square root of that average other tests may also be performed. Optionally a shape parameter may be calculated to assess the general shape of the peak in the image. A ratio may be constructed of the central peak value minus the average of the 4CP the average of the 4CP minus the local background average . The method may determine if this shape ratio is greater than C 4 .

Pixels that pass a number of these tests may be considered to be evidence of a gamma ray. For example a pixel that has passed the first five tests and optionally the sixth may be considered to be a possible gamma ray detection and in the flow control of control would flow to . If no pixels pass all tests the image is deemed to be free of gamma rays the procedure may then consider the next image .

If gamma rays are detected in an image the method may be used to determine how many times gamma rays are detected in the next user definable period. The period may be based on a number of frames which may be from 1 to about 1000 frames or 1 to about 15 frames or an amount of time which may be from about 0.5 to about 30 seconds or from about 1 to about 10 seconds although shorter and longer times are possible. If user detected gamma rays are present in the user definable period and the threshold is exceeded for example 3 5 frames the detection may be considered to be a persistent bona fide detection rather than transient noise.

The number of gamma rays detected per image may also be used to determine the veracity of the detection. The user can configure the system to ignore frames having fewer than some threshold number of gamma ray detections. For example the threshold may be 1 2 gamma ray detections per image but might be set higher in an area with more ambient radiation or at very high altitude. A persistent radioactive source may trigger an alert and control of the system can flow to but data capture and analysis may continue. All relevant data may be logged and communicated via secure e.g. encrypted connection to a monitoring station for further review and possible security operations.

If the activity detected in an image does not repeat or does not reach the threshold level the data may be optionally logged and control may be returned to standard data collection acts and .

Persistent sources of gamma rays based on pixel or image evaluation may be interpreted as a radiation event and trigger defined alerts including operator alarm. computer based alarm networked alerts combinations of these and other alerts. In addition to the alerts an intensive monitoring mode may be activated for the camera that was responsible for detecting the radiation event . Other cameras for example nearby cameras may be put into a faster data taking and analysis mode to improve the chances of detecting a radioactive source. If more than one camera detects radiation those independent detections may be coordinated .

Intensive monitoring may have various outcomes including verification that the radioactive source is still near an approximate location extraction of a more precise location of the radioactive source and identification of the specific type of radio isotope.

Once a positive detection or radioactivity is made subsequent analyses may update the current status without having to revalidate the alert for persistency. These updates may be used to verify that the source is still present and may be used for the gradient search in section .

Some cameras may be moved by a remote operator and or by computer control. These cameras may be panned and tilted to alter their orientation with respect to the radioactive source. As a camera is moved to align its detector more nearly perpendicular to the source the count rate may increase. Conversely when the camera is aimed so as to align the detector more edge wise to the radioactive source the gamma ray count rate may decrease. In this way a gradient search may be performed either by the camera operator or by a computer controlled search grid raster spiral or other . In one implementation of the gradient search each time the count rate goes up averaging over a user definable number of frames for example 3 5 frames a new gradient search may begin with the new maximum count vector defining the search pattern s new origin. When a global maximum is reached the detector may either be pointing straight towards or directly away from the radioactive source. In many cases the camera s position may make it extremely difficult for a source to be placed in one of these positions e.g. on the roof of a train station or floating in mid air a short distance above a highway . Images of physical objects detected by the imager may be used to help determine and resolve uncertainties in source location. The digital camera data images of physical objects may be used to measure the apparent angular size of identifiable features so as to make estimates of radioactive source strength. For example if a car is identified as the source of activity the car s distance from the camera imager may be determined based upon its apparent angular size and its known length height etc. using trigonometric relationships. The calculated distance and the known sensitivity may be compared to determine if the data are self consistent.

The energy deposited by the gamma ray in the detector may be measured in addition to determining the location within the detector and the time of detection. The amount of energy deposited into the detector increases with increasing gamma ray energy. Every radioisotope may have a unique spectrum of gamma ray energies. Measurement of the energy deposited plus a comparison to a library of energies may permit determination of the specific radioisotope. That identity may be reported.

Multiple cameras may detect a specific radioactive source. The data from each camera may be analyzed. Each camera may be instructed to carry out an intensive search to identify the specific isotope and to perform its own gradient search. By combining the image analysis results from each camera additional information on the source may be obtained. Images from each camera may be used to perform a gradient search. As each camera reports a most probable direction from its gradient search these vectors may be expected to converge towards a single area. Since the different cameras are positioned in different locations the resulting triangulation may facilitate source location determination and may help in instances where it is not possible for the data from a single camera to adequately determine a source location. The revised location for the source of radioactivity may be added to the alert information.

The coordination of detector data from various imagers may also permit a re determination of radioisotope identity by comparing more data to the library values. A higher significance or confidence in gamma rays identified in an image may be obtained by combining analysis results from one or more cameras. The revised estimate of radioactive source properties may be reported via the alert systems.

The laboratory experiments performed with small radioactive sources confirm that imagers based on CCD or CMOS platforms are sensitive to energetic particle impacts. Control experiments verify that the procedures implemented essentially eliminate false positive alerts from occurring. For such a false alarm to happen the background rate would have to inexplicably increase by roughly a factor of 20 to 50 and stay that way for seconds. The probability of such an outcome is vanishingly small. Similarly the detections made in the laboratory experiments resulted in significant detections as shown in even with very low activity sources. The risk of false negatives missed sources is expected to be small for radioactive sources of a size likely to represent a viable threat. Radioactive sources that have a disintegration rate of a few thousand Curies samples large enough to present a security threat are expected to be detectable at ranges of at least a few to several hundred meters and possibly much further depending upon the degree of shielding the air gap attenuation and the inverse square fall off.

The effect of geometric foreshortening reducing the projected solid angle of the detector at angles other than perpendicular to the source allow for a gradient search to be executed. This procedure allows for measurements of activity to be made across a range of pan tilt or altitude azimuth orientations. The comparison of measured levels with pointing direction provides a most probable direction vector that points along the line from the current location of the source through the camera s detector. In many installations it would be impossible for a radioactive source to be on one of the sides of a camera reducing the question of location to the range along a vector. This outcome would occur for example with a camera mounted high on a pole the radioactive source could not reasonably be expected to be hanging in mid air nearby. In other instances shielding on one or more sides of the camera may be used to attenuate the gamma rays to differentiate radioactive source location. Alternatively or additionally data from nearby cameras may be used to determine the radioactive material source location.

Radon a decay product of radium 226 emits an alpha particle and may emit gamma rays Ra 219 when it decays. Lead bismuth and thallium decay daughter nuclides of Ra 226 can emit gamma rays and may be used to determine the presence of Radon. For example the bismuth 214 daughter nuclide of Ra 226 emits gamma rays with main energy peaks of 609 keV 1 120 keV and 1 764 keV gamma rays emitted by the radon decay products. A CCD or CMOS imager may be used to detect Radon and its decay products in a variety of settings. The imager may be placed in or near an area to be tested. Optionally shielding may be used to provide a control. The data from the imager may be analyzed for high energy gamma ray particles to determine the identity and number of counts in the tested area. Alternatively the capacitor connected to the MOSFET amplifier that converts the signal charge to voltage for the imager may be measured for charge as each pixel is read. A charge or voltage above a given threshold may be used to indicate the presence of gamma rays from a radioactive source in the area being tested.

In one example of an imager detector the signal generated by the detector is the result of gamma rays impinging upon silicon silicon dioxide CCDs. A preliminary study of the gamma ray interaction and energy deposition into Si SiOCCD detectors was undertaken and it was found that these devices were capable of successfully detecting lead shielded radioisotopes. Models of two different geometries representing the extremes likely to be found in realistic field operations were studied. One model involved thin slabs of source material minimizing gamma ray self absorption the other model was a spherical distribution that maximizes gamma ray self absorption. The slab model results supported much higher detection rates distances and confidence levels but even the spherical models result in detectable signals at 20 100 meter distances.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contained within this specification.

