---

title: Multifunctionally graded environmental barrier coatings for silicon-base ceramic components
abstract: A multilayered coating system consisting of a multicomponent zirconia-base or hafnia-base oxide top layer, an interlayer comprised of a plurality of sublayers and a bond coat layer is provided. The multilayered coating system of the present invention, with an interlayer comprised of a plurality of sublayers, provides a protective coating solution for silicon-base ceramic components exposed to very high temperatures and/or high gas flow velocity water vapor combustion environments. The plurality of sublayers affords for a multitude of interfaces that aid in phonon scattering within the coating system and thereby reduces its thermal conductivity. Furthermore, the plurality of interlayer sublayers afford a strain tolerant buffer between the top layer and substrate and thereby accommodate the thermal expansion mismatch between the oxide top layer (coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) up to ˜8-10×10m/m-C) and the silicon-base ceramic substrate (CTE≈4-5×10m/m-C).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07740960&OS=07740960&RS=07740960
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07740960
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060828
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 712 605 filed Aug. 26 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates in general to environmental barrier coatings and in particular to multifunctionally graded environmental barrier coatings for silicon base ceramic components.

In hot sections of gas turbines and other heat engines high temperature oxidation resistant coatings are necessary to protect engine components and thereby improve engine reliability. Alloyed metallic coatings that form protective slow growing oxide scales such as alumina AlO and chromia CrO have been designed and used as oxidation and corrosion resistant coatings thus affording for load bearing components to have longer service lives. However metallic coatings typically have a useful temperature capability of less than 1000 C. and may melt above 1350 C.

Lightweight and high temperature capable silicon base ceramics are desirable and can be used for improving gas turbine engine performance. However thermal and environmental barrier coatings are critical when employing the ceramic technology. The environmental barrier coatings are a necessity in providing thermal and environmental protection of the silicon base ceramic components due to the high volatility of silicon base ceramics in high temperature oxidizing and water vapor containing combustion environments. In order to increase the temperature capability of silicon base ceramic engine components thermal and environmental barrier coatings are applied to the component surfaces. Thermal and environmental barrier coatings are relatively thin ceramic layers generally applied by plasma spraying or physical vapor deposition techniques that are used to protect metallic and ceramic components from high temperature gases water vapor and other oxidants. Such coatings are useful in protecting and extending the service lives of ceramic components exposed to high temperatures such as jet engine turbine blades vanes and combustors.

Outer layer thermal barrier coatings composed of zirconia yttria are well known in the art wherein the yttria is typically present from 7 to 9 weight percent wt 4 to 5 molar percent . The coatings are generally applied by plasma spraying or physical vapor deposition in which melted ceramic particles or vaporized ceramic clouds are deposited onto the surface of a component to be protected and have been widely used in more advanced engine systems. The thermal barrier coatings are somewhat porous with overall porosities typically in the range of 5 to 20 percent. The porosity serves to reduce the thermal conductivity of the coating below the intrinsic conductivity of the dense ceramic of the same composition.

Beneath an outer layer thermal barrier coating it is not uncommon for a coating system to have an intermediate layer plus and a bond coat adjacent to the substrate. The intermediate layer can be referred to as an environmental barrier coating. Current state of the art environmental barrier coatings for silicon base ceramics are based on barium strontium aluminosilicate BSAS with a mullite BSAS intermediate layer and a silicon bond coat adjacent to the silicon base ceramics. One problem with current environmental barrier coatings is the limited high temperature stability and thus capability of such systems. These barrier coatings have a temperature capability of 1350 C. and below due to the 1 relatively poor water vapor corrosion resistance of the coating below 1300 C. and 2 low melting eutectic glass phases resulting from silicon interdiffusion and interface reactions in the mullite BSAS silicon system. Therefore an environmental barrier coating with high water vapor stability and high temperature capability is needed.

A multilayered coating system comprised of a multicomponent zirconia base or hafnia base oxide top layer a plurality of sublayers and a bond coat layer is provided. The multilayered coating system of the present invention with an interlayer comprised of a plurality of sublayers provides a protective coating solution for silicon base ceramic components exposed to very high temperatures and or high gas flow velocity water vapor containing combustion environments. The plurality of sublayers affords for a multitude of interfaces that aid in phonon scattering and a subsequent reduction in thermal conductivity within the coating system. Furthermore the plurality of interlayer sublayers afford a strain tolerant buffer between the top layer and substrate and thereby accommodate the thermal expansion mismatch and thermal strains between the oxide top layer coefficient of thermal expansion CTE up to 8 10 10m m C and the silicon base ceramic substrate CTE 4 5 10m m C . In the alternative a multilayered coating system comprised of the plurality of sublayers and a bond coat layer is provided for protection of silicon base ceramic components.

A multilayered coating system comprised of a multicomponent zirconia base or hafnia base oxide top layer an interlayer comprised of a plurality of sublayers and a bond coat layer is provided. The multilayered coating system of the present invention with an interlayer comprised of a plurality of sublayers provides a protective coating solution for silicon base ceramic components exposed to very high temperatures and or high gas flow velocity water vapor containing combustion environments. The plurality of sublayers affords for a multitude of interfaces that aid in phonon scattering and a subsequent reduction in thermal conductivity within the coating system. Furthermore the plurality of interlayer sublayers afford a strain tolerant buffer between the top layer and substrate and thereby accommodate the thermal expansion mismatch between the oxide top layer coefficient of thermal expansion CTE as high as 8 10 10m m C and the silicon base ceramic substrate CTE 4 5 10m m C . In the alternative a multilayered coating system comprised of the plurality of sublayers and a bond coat layer is provided for protection of silicon base ceramic components.

A first embodiment of the present invention is illustratively shown in at . The multilayered coating system is applied to a substrate . External to the bond coat is an interlayer with an outer layer thereupon. The substrate is a silicon base ceramic used in high temperature applications illustratively including silicon carbide SiC silicon nitride SiN and silicon base continuous fiber reinforced ceramic matrix composites e.g. SiC SiC CMCs . The bond coat in contact with the substrate is comprised of any suitable material illustratively including silicon mullite mullite silicon mullite barium strontium aluminosilicate BSAS doped mullite or other high stability metal oxide composite systems e.g. HfO silicon and or ZrO silicon . In the alternative bond coat can be comprised of a rare earth silicate illustratively including yttrium silicates YSiO YSiO ytterbium silicates YbSiO YbSiO gadolinium silicates GdSiO GdSiO erbium silicates ErSiO ErSiO and combinations thereof.

The term mullite as used in the present invention is defined as an aluminosilicate material commonly denoted as 3AlO 2SiO. The term doped mullite as used in the present invention is defined as mullite alloyed with other elements or oxides. The doped mullite can be mullite alloyed with the oxides of rare earth elements scandium yttrium cerium neodymium samarium europium gadolinium dysprosium erbium and combinations thereof along with oxides of transition metal elements hafnium tantalum titanium zirconium and combinations thereof. When bond coat is comprised of a high stability metal oxide composite the metal oxide e.g. HfOof the HfO silicon composite or ZrOof the ZrO silicon composite can be doped or undoped. Doped HfOand doped ZrOare taught in more detail in the following sections.

The concentration of BSAS in a mullite BSAS bond coat ranges from 10 to 30 molar percent mol . The concentration of silicon in the mullite ranges from 0 to 25 vol preferably ranges from 1 to 15 vol and more preferably ranges from 2 to 12 vol . The concentration of yttrium oxide gadolinium oxide and ytterbium oxide in the doped mullite each range from 0.5 to 10 mol and preferably each range from 1 to 8 mol . The concentration of hafnium oxide in the doped mullite ranges from 0 to 60 mol preferably ranges from 1 to 30 mol and more preferably ranges from 2 to 12 mol . These advanced bond coats afford maximum high temperature capability and adhesion for thermal barrier coatings systems.

Interlayer is comprised of a plurality of sublayers wherein each sublayer has a different chemical composition. The sublayers in the present embodiment can be comprised of mullite mullite silicon mullite BSAS doped mullite high stability metal oxides composite system or a rare earth silicate wherein the thermodynamic activity of silicon within a given sublayer is less than the thermodynamic activity of silicon in the adjacent sublayer that is nearer in distance to the bond coat . In other words the activity of silicon increases within each sublayer that is closer to bond coat . The type and concentration of a given sublayer is the same as taught above for bond coat .

Between each sublayer is an interface . It is well known to those skilled in the art that interfaces within a given material or coating system aid in the scattering of phonons which in turn reduces thermal conductivity. Therefore interlayer with its associated interfaces aids in the scattering of phonons and the subsequent reduction of thermal conductivity in the coating. In addition the plurality of sublayers and the interfaces therebetween afford a strain tolerant buffer between the outer layer and the substrate thereby accommodating the thermal expansion mismatch and thermal strains between said outer layer and substrate. The strain tolerant buffer is particularly important when large thermal gradients are present within the coating system.

The outer layer can be comprised of a current state of the art thermal barrier coating material illustratively including ZrO HfO 8 wt YO. In the alternative outer layer can be comprised of undoped HfOor a four component low conductivity high toughness LCHT thermal barrier coating. The doped HfOand doped ZrOmentioned above can be comprised of the four component LCHT thermal barrier coating which has a partially stabilized non transformable tetragonal t structure that emphasizes higher total dopant content than a cubic structured system. In addition to the four component system the present invention affords a four component LCHT outer layer with two additional paired transition metal oxide toughening dopants included therein as disclosed in copending utility U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 510 574 entitled Low Conductivity And High Toughness Tetragonal Phase Structured Ceramic Thermal Barrier Coatings filed concurrently herewith and included herein by reference. The LCHT outer layer can also be alloyed with aluminosilicates e.g. doped or undoped mullite or aluminates. Alloying with aluminosilicates and or aluminates affords a reduction in the LCHT outer layer thermal expansion coefficient while maintaining high temperature thermal stability.

The four component LCHT coating system upon which outer layer is based includes a base oxide selected from a group consisting of zirconia ZrO hafnia HfO and combinations thereof. A primary stabilizer dopant comprising a second component is selected from the group of rare earth oxides consisting of yttria YO dysporia DyO euria EuO and combinations thereof. The third and fourth components are comprised of cluster dopant oxides that promote the formation of extended defects and defect clusters which aid in the reduction of the oxide intrinsic thermal conductivity and sintering rates. The third component cluster dopant oxide is selected from a group of rare earth oxides which has a smaller ionic size than the primary stabilizer component and or the base oxide component. This group of small rare earth oxides is selected from the oxides of ytterbium holmium lutetium and combinations thereof. The fourth component cluster dopant oxide is selected from a group of rare earth oxides which has a larger ionic size than the primary stabilizer component and or the base oxide component. This group of large rare earth oxides is comprised of an oxide of neodymium samarium europium gadolinium and combinations thereof.

The two additional paired transition metal oxide toughening dopants include oxides of titanium e.g. TiO tantalum e.g. TaO niobium e.g. NbO scandium e.g. ScO and combinations thereof can be added. Thus one embodiment of the present invention is a multilayered coating system with a six component thermal barrier coating outer layer illustrated by ZrO HfO YO DyO EuO REO A REO B TiO NbO ScO TaO NbO ScO where REO A and REO B are Group A and Group B rare earth oxide dopants respectively. The doped HfOand doped ZrOmentioned above can also be comprised of this six component system. Group A and Group B are equivalent to the third component cluster dopant oxide and fourth component cluster dopant oxide described above respectively. The total dopant oxide composition in the outer layer is from 3 to 26 molar percent mol . Preferably the total dopant oxide composition ranges from 5 to 22 mol . More preferably the total dopant oxide composition ranges from 10 to 20 mol . The composition range of the primary stabilizer dopant is from 1 to 10 mol . Preferably the composition range of the primary stabilizer dopant is between 2 and 8 mol and even more preferably the composition range is between 2 and 6 mol . The composition of the Group A and Group B rare earth oxide dopants each range from 0.5 to 4 mol and preferably range from 1 to 3 mol . It is also preferred but not required that Group A and Group B rare earth oxides are present in equal molar amounts. The total concentration of the transition metal toughening dopants ranges from 1 to 20 mol whereas the total concentration of the primary stabilizer dopant Group A dopant and Group B dopant is preferably in the range of 1 to 12 mol and more preferably in the range of 2 to 10 mol . The range of total concentration for the primary stabilizer dopant Group A dopant and Group B dopant is necessary to ensure the formation and stabilization of the tetragonal phase structured coating.

Another embodiment of the present invention is comprised of outer layer having transition metal toughening dopants TiOand TaOincorporated into a four component low conductivity composition which initially has a cubic phase structure. In the alternative NbO ScOand combinations thereof can be used to substitute for the TiOand or TaO or used as dopants in the TiOand or TaO. The incorporation of the transitional metal toughening dopants enhances the coating erosion and toughness performance. In the present embodiment the total concentration of primary stabilizer dopant Group A dopant and Group B dopant is in the range of 7 to 20 mol .

The addition of the Group A dopant Group B dopant and the toughening oxide dopants to the zirconia hafnia yttria or other zirconia hafnia base systems serves three functions. The first function is the creation of thermodynamically stable highly defective lattice structures with controlled ranges of defect cluster sizes. The intent of these complex structures is to effectively attenuate and scatter lattice phonon waves as well as radiative photon waves at a wide spectrum of frequencies. This scattering significantly reduces the oxide intrinsic lattice and radiation thermal conductivity. The second function is the production of highly distorted lattice structures with relatively immobile defect clusters and or nanoscale ordered phases. These clusters and phases effectively reduce the mobile defect concentration and suppress the atomic mobility and mass transport. This second function significantly improves the oxide sintering creep resistance of the coating system. The third function is the improvement of the mechanical properties of the coating system such as fracture toughness and durability and results from the formation of complex nanoscale defect clusters.

The functions mentioned above are derived from the consideration of lattice elastic strain energy and ionic sizes electroneutrality conditions and oxide free energy of formation. Regarding lattice elastic strain energy and ionic size considerations one or more pairs of additional dopants incorporated into zirconia hafnia coating systems effectively produce lattice distortions in the ceramic alloy solid solutions and facilitate local ionic segregation commonly known as defect clustering to those skilled in the art. With respect to the electroneutrality consideration one or more pairs of additional dopants incorporated into the base oxides have cation valencies that are either less than that of zirconia or larger than that of zirconia. These dopants create a high concentration of highly associated defects which create strong dopant oxygen vacancies and dopant dopant interactions both of which promote the formation of extended immobile defect clusters. Regarding an oxides free energy of formation a high free energy of formation for a dopant oxide represents a high stability of the oxide in an oxygen containing atmosphere. The high free energy of formation also correlates with high polarization of the oxide which further introduces lattice defects and distortion both of which result in a reduced thermal conductivity and an improved sintering creep resistance. One further consideration is the atomic weight and solubility of the dopant oxides. A high dopant atomic weight is beneficial for improving lattice scattering. Furthermore a high dopant solubility is beneficial for increasing dopant concentrations and thus defect concentrations. A mixture of high solubility and low solubility dopants of high and low atomic weight promote complex structures and thus improved lattice scattering. Yet another embodiment of the present invention affords a multilayer coating system comprised of a bond coat and interlayer only i.e. outer layer is not present.

A second embodiment of the present invention is illustratively shown in at . The multilayered coating system is applied to substrate . External to bond coat is an interlayer with outer layer thereupon.

Interlayer is comprised of a plurality of sublayers and wherein the sublayers afford for at least two alternating sets of chemically distinct layers. A first set of the alternating layers is comprised of a rare earth oxide doped transition metal oxide selected from the group consisting of an oxide of hafnium zirconium and combinations thereof. The rare earth oxide dopant can be varied depending upon the composition and or phase structure of the substrate and outer layer . For illustrative purposes only the rare earth oxide dopant can be selected from the group consisting of oxides of yttrium ytterbium holmium lutetium neodymium samarium europium gadolinium and combinations thereof. A second set of alternating layers is comprised of an aluminosilicate material and selected from the same types and compositions as bond coat and sublayer as described above.

By alternating chemically distinct layers interfaces between the sublayers and aid in the thermal conductivity reduction of the coating system as described above. Furthermore the plurality of sublayers and and the interfaces therebetween afford for a strain tolerant buffer between the outer layer and the substrate thereby accommodating the thermal expansion mismatch and thermal strains between said outer layer and said substrate.

The present invention can also be comprised of more than two sets of alternating chemically distinct layers for example three sets four sets etc. of alternating chemically distinct layers. In addition a third type of chemically distinct layer can be inserted within interlayer . For example and for illustrative purposes only a rare earth silicate sublayer can be inserted within an interlayer comprised of alternating sets of doped mullite sublayers and doped HfOsublayers. The location of a third type of chemically distinct layer can be between the bond coat and the interlayer between the outer coat and the interlayer and or in between a sublayer and sublayer .

In order to demonstrate the effectiveness and yet in no way limit the scope of the present invention two examples are given below.

A sample incorporating an interlayer comprised of multiple layers of doped mullite wherein the silicon activity of each layer decreased in a direction from the outer layer to the bond coat was prepared. The substrate was a silicon base ceramic and the bond coat was comprised of doped mullite. The outer layer was a HfO REOthermal barrier coating. shows a graphical representation of the normalized thermal conductivity as a function of test time wherein said sample was cyclically tested at 1750 C. using 6 minute hot cycles. The normalized thermal conductivity is used to evaluate the delamination behavior of a coating. As shown in this figure the normalized thermal conductivity for a multilayer coating system according to the present invention demonstrates a relatively smooth continuous increase with test time. also shows an inset photograph of the sample after testing wherein the coating is still intact.

Samples manufactured according to the second embodiment of the present invention were also prepared. The substrate was a silicon base ceramic and the bond coat was comprised of doped mullite. The interlayer was comprised of alternating sets of HfO 27 wt YOsublayers and mullite sublayers shown as Advanced HfOcoatings in . The samples had at least five sublayers of mullite in between which were at least five layers of HfO 27 wt YO. The thickness of the mullite sublayers was at least 10 microns whereas the thickness of the HfO 27 wt YOsublayers was at least 5 microns. The outer layer was comprised of a current state of the art ZrO 8 wt YOthermal barrier coating in order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the interlayer . These samples along with samples with a ZrO 8 wt YO mullite interlayer system shown as 8YSZ with Interlayer and a traditional ZrO 8 wt YOthermal barrier coating on a mullite bond coat shown as 8YSZ on mullite were tested at 1605 C. illustrates the normalized thermal conductivity as a function of test time for the samples tested and provides a comparison of the delamination resistance of each coating system. Clearly the advanced hafnia mullite interlayer coating system has a significantly higher delamination resistance than traditional thermal barrier coatings. This observation is confirmed in wherein a marked reduction in the delamination rate is illustrated for samples with a simple ZrO 8 wt YO mullite interlayer system compared to a current state of the art ZrO 8 wt YOcoatings on a mullite and a mullite BSAS bond coat system.

In addition to the above described embodiments environmental protection coating encapsulated nano silicon nano alumino silicate and or rare earth silicate particles can be utilized for self monitoring and self healing applications. The alternating compositional layer coatings can range in thickness from 5 to 50 microns and from 2 to 20 layers for each composition.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

