---

title: Direct-view, compact short wave infra red (SWIR) viewer
abstract: A night vision device includes an objective lens assembly, an image detector assembly, an eyepiece lens assembly and a housing. The objective lens assembly receives low intensity light. The image detector assembly converts the low intensity light into a visible output image. The eyepiece lens assembly provides for viewing the output image from the image detector assembly. The housing receives the objective lens assembly, the image detector assembly, and the eyepiece lens assembly. Additionally, the housing aligns the objective lens assembly with the image detector assembly and the eyepiece lens assembly along an optical axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07706062&OS=07706062&RS=07706062
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07706062
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060915
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

The present invention generally relates to imaging devices that utilize wavelengths of the electromagnetic EM spectrum and more particularly to a direct view compact short wave infra red SWIR viewer.

The primary head worn night vision devices used by the United States US military are night vision goggles NVGs . Although these devices can be monocular one eye looking at an image biocular two eyes looking at the same image or binocular two eyes looking at two images in design conventional NVGs all use image intensification I tube technology. An Itube multiplies ambient visible and near IR light several thousands of times. Itube technology allows a user to see and operate in very low light conditions. In extreme low light conditions additional near IR illumination can be used. Although this near IR illumination can be seen with the aid of a night vision device the near IR illumination is invisible to unaided human eyes.

Current night vision technologies use the visible 400 780 nanometer near infrared IR 780 nanometer 1 micron mid wave IR 3 5 micron and long wave IR 8 12 micron bands. The proliferation of night vision technologies has placed devices into the hands of US adversaries thereby reducing the US military s advantage during low light operations.

The strength of night vision goggles is also one of its disadvantages. The Itube is inherently a direct view system. Light enters objective optics on one end of a night vision device and is focused onto the Itube. The light is amplified by the Itube and exits the device through eyepiece optics. Itube night vision devices can be small light weight and rugged. One disadvantage with Itube night vision devices is Itube night vision devices can not generate an image as a video signal that can be displayed on a monitor or transmitted externally. The Itube is also sensitive to too much light. Too much light can over saturate the Itube and prevent the user from seeing any scene detail. This problem is called blooming or a halo effect. Therefore an Idevice can only be used in low light conditions. In very low light conditions additional near IR illumination or lasers can be used. This active illumination technique can be seen by all Idevices. So if an adversary has an Idevice any opposing force using near IR illuminators or lasers may inadvertently disclose their position. Additional disadvantages are the narrow applications the night vision devices are designed for. These devices are primarily mobility devices with a fixed field of view e.g. 40 .

An example of an Inight vision device is the Army s AN PVS 14. The AN PVS 14 is a monocular device that can be handheld mounted onto a helmet or on a weapon. However the AN PVS 14 does not have video output power input or external video input capabilities. Additionally the AN PVS 14 does not accept alternative objective lenses other than magnifiers that narrow the field of view. Another example of a monocular night vision Idevice is a commercial off the shelf COTS Pocket Scope MK 880 sold by OSTI. Although similar to the AN PVS 14 the Pocket Scope MK 880 can accept external power and alternative objective lenses. But the Pocket Scope MK 880 is still susceptible to too much light the inability to export the amplified image and the inability to display external video.

Irvine Sensors has developed a Personal Miniature Thermal Viewer PMTV . The PMTV is a compact thermal imager with an integrated display. The PMTV is compact direct view battery operated and can produce imagery in the mid wave IR band. However the PMTV can not display an external video.

What is needed is an alternative imaging device that utilizes wavelengths of the electro magnetic EM spectrum currently unused in military environments.

There is a need for a device that uses the 1 2 micron wavelength band. The Direct View Compact Short Wave Infra Red SWIR Viewer is a multi purpose device for use in rugged environments. The viewer consists of a lightweight housing interchangeable objective lens miniature SWIR imaging sensor display panel display electronics power supply electronic board controls and an eyepiece. The compact design allows for the viewer to be handheld head or helmet mounted and or tripod mounted. An integrated display and eyepiece allow the viewer to be a direct view i.e. in the direct path with the user s line of sight device. A video signal generated by the viewer can be exported. The viewer can also display external video signals.

Unlike most night vision devices the viewer is a multi purpose device that can be configured to meet various tactical missions. The viewer can be handheld or head helmet mounted and used as a mobility and target detection device. When used with long focal length optics the viewer can be tripod mounted and be used as a long range observation device. The viewer can be used as a display for other sensors. The viewer can be combined with other night vision technologies.

More particularly one aspect of the invention relates to a night vision device including an objective lens assembly an image detector assembly an eyepiece lens assembly and a housing. The objective lens assembly receives low intensity light. The image detector assembly converts the low intensity light into a visible output image. The eyepiece lens assembly provides for viewing the output image from the image detector assembly. The housing receives the objective lens assembly the image detector assembly and the eyepiece lens assembly. Additionally the housing aligns the objective lens assembly with the image detector assembly and the eyepiece lens assembly along an optical axis.

Another aspect of the invention relates to the image detector assembly operating as a SWIR detector array.

Yet another aspect of the invention relates to the viewer converts the output image into a video signal for display on a display panel.

Yet another aspect of the invention relates to the viewer is combinable with other night vision devices.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention provides the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other objects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

In the detailed description that follows identical components have been given the same reference numerals.

Referring now to the drawings and initially to a Direct View Compact Short Wave Infra Red SWIR Viewer is illustrated according to one embodiment of the invention. The viewer includes a center housing molded from a rugged non metallic housing that allows the viewer to be light weight and strong. Raised ribs along an outer surface of the viewer increase the gripping surface when holding the viewer. Fasteners for example screws latches or the like removably fasten a battery compartment to the center housing . A removable battery cap and Off On Display External Video knob are located on a front wall of the battery compartment. The battery cap retains replaceable batteries which are installed coaxially. The Off On Display External Video knob located at the front wall of the viewer set s the operational mode.

The modes are Off On and Display External Video signal. In Off mode the viewer is non functional. In On mode a SWIR sensor is operating and an image is displayed through an eyepiece . In the event the internal or externally supplied power source is low a low battery indicator will be presented through the eyepiece. The On Off knob must be pulled out and turned to switch to a third position e.g. Display External Video signal mode. The Display External Video signal mode displays an external video signal provided via an Input Output I O jack to the eyepiece. A 40 30 degree field of view objective lens is removably attached to a lens holder . The lens holder holds the lens but also serves as the viewer s primary heat conducting surface. This metal component allows heat inside the center housing to escape via convection.

A tapped hole e.g. 20 UNC tapped hole is located at the top of the viewer . The tapped hole is used to mount the viewer to monocular or binocular helmet mounts or a tripod bracket mount . Adjacent to the tapped hole are two beveled edges . These edges mate with corresponding beveled edges on the monocular binocular and tripod mounts. These self alignment features ensure the viewer and mounts are mated perpendicular to one another.

The Input Output I O jack is located at the top of the viewer and protrudes rearward. Locating the jack on the top of the viewer eliminates interference with other various mounting brackets and sensor mounting combinations. Orienting the jack rearward facing i.e. pointing toward the user s face minimizes cable routing when used with a helmet mount and reduces the potential for being clogged by dust dirt or water. The jack accepts power and video signals as inputs to the viewer. The jack also outputs the SWIR video signal.

Accepting a wide range of external power e.g. 6 16 VDC allows the viewer to be powered by numerous configurations of batteries ranging from four AA 1.5 VDC sized batteries to a larger 12 VDC car battery. Current NVGs are 1.5 3 VDC devices.

The eyepiece located in the rear of the viewer focuses the image from the internal display panel to the user. An adjustable ring on the eyepiece allows the user to adjust the diopter setting to improve the focus. The brightness of the display panel can be increased by turning a spring loaded momentary knob clockwise or decreased by turning it counter clockwise. This brightness knob is coaxially aligned with the Off On Display External Video knob .

There are four steps to operating the viewer . Step one turning the Off On Display External Video knob to an operational position. Step two adjusting the eyepiece s diopter setting for a focused image of the internal display panel. Step three focusing the objective lens by rotating it in and out of the lens holder until the scene of interest is within focus. Step four adjusting the display s brightness to a comfortable level.

Referring now to the internal components of the viewer are illustrated. The objective lens is removably fastened to the lens holder . A SWIR detector array is mounted to a frame . The frame may be metallic for example. The frame is the structure that retains the detector detector electronics display electronics and display panel .

Metallic heat sink fins adjacent to the detector array extend from the frame . The fins conduct heat from the detector to a metallic mounting surface bonded to the center housing .

The detector and display assembly are inserted into the center housing through a front circular opening . The eyepiece is screwed into a rear end of the housing . A power supply electronics board is located below the detector and display assembly. The power supply electronics board is inserted into the housing through a square opening in a bottom of the housing. The board is electrically connected to the display electronics and mechanically fastened to the metallic frame . As is understood by those with ordinary skill in the art a wiring harness connects the knobs and internal batteries in the battery compartment to the power supply electronics board . Another wiring harness connects the I O Jack to the power supply electronics board . The modular design of the viewer enable the detector and display assembly power supply electronics board and wiring harnesses to be assembled outside of the center housing . This eases component level testing.

Referring now to the operation of the device will now be described. Photonic energy from a scene enters the objective lens and is focused onto the SWIR imaging detector . The detector s electronics create a video signal of the scene and provides the video signal to the display electronics. The display electronics create an image from the signal and presents a visible image on the display panel . The eyepiece focuses the image from the display panel to a user s eye . The SWIR imaging detector detector electronics display electronics and display panel are mechanically coupled such that the center of the objective lens detector display panel and eyepiece are aligned along an axis e.g. an optical axis. This alignment is identical to a purely optical direct viewing device like a telescope. The user s eye views an external scene directly through the eyepiece and objective lens along a straight axis.

The power supply electronic board serves as the controlling component of the viewer . It accepts inputs from the Off On External Display Knob and display brightness knob . The board accepts monitors and manages the input voltage from the internal batteries and external sources of the viewer. The board accepts and routes the video signal from an external source and routes the video signal from the SWIR imager externally.

With reference to the SWIR viewer is illustrated in a right eye monocular configuration. A monocular mount is attached to the viewer with a removable fastener e.g. a 20 UNC thumbscrew. The AN PVS 7D Adapter is a component that interfaces with standard Army AN PVS 7D helmet mounts.

With reference to illustrate the monocular mount in detail. The 20 UNC thumbscrew is captivated in a slot in a monocular bridge . The slot allows for lateral adjustment between the center of the AN PVS 7D Adapter and the SWIR viewer s optical axis of the SWIR viewer . One end of the slot is tapped to accept the thumbscrew. A shank of the thumbscrew is undercut creating a shoulder . This feature and the close fitting slot captivates the screw. The adapter and bridge are joined by a beveled member called the nose . A recessed pocket on the underside of the monocular bridge features two beveled edges that mate with corresponding edges on the viewer . A cross section illustrates how the beveled edges of the mount and the viewer mate. The monocular bridge is symmetrical and can be configured in a left or right configuration. This allows the user to use either eye.

With reference to illustrate the SWIR viewer in a binocular configuration. Two SWIR viewers and are joined by a binocular mount . Similar to the monocular configuration the binocular mount is attached to the viewers and with two removable fasteners e.g. 20 UNC thumbscrews.

With reference to illustrate the binocular mount in detail. Although the binocular mount is two sided it offers the same features of the monocular mount. Two thumbscrews are used to retain the SWIR viewers and . The screws are captivated in slots in the binocular bridge . The same AN PVS 7D adapter and nose are interchangeable with the monocular and binocular mounts.

With reference to illustrate the SWIR viewer in a configuration compatible with a standard photography tripod. A tripod mount attaches to the viewer with a removable fastener e.g. a 20 UNC thumbscrew. The tripod mount attaches to the top of the viewer but provides a tapped hole at the bottom of the bracket so the viewer remains right side up when mounted to a tripod. If the viewer was directly mounted to a tripod without the bracket the output SWIR imagery would be inverted.

With reference to illustrate the tripod mount in detail. The thumbscrew is captivated into a beveled plate . Two rails join the beveled plate with a tapped plate . The tapped plate has a 20 UNC tapped hole in the center to accept a screw from a tripod. Two alignment slots on either side of the hole accept alignment pins that are often used in tripods. Rigidity is added to the mount by a support bar .

Accepting an external video signal allows the viewer to display alternative imagery. Therefore when mounted to a helmet the viewer can be used as a Heads Up Display HUD . illustrates the viewer displaying the video imagery from a weapon mounted sight . Other video sources that can be displayed on this viewer include a computer and other imaging sensors. INVG devices can not do this. Although commercial and military HUDs exist these devices are sole purpose devices. If a user wanted to use an INVG device and HUD the user would have to have a device on each eye. The viewer is a dual purpose device e.g. a SWIR imager and a HUD. It eliminates the need for two devices.

Another application for the viewer s HUD feature is illustrated in . The viewer can be assembled in a binocular configuration with any other monocular imaging system illustratively represented by the outlined cylinder. For example the viewer can be assembled with an image intensifier. This dual wavelength binocular assembly would enable the user to see in near IR and shortwave IR energy simultaneously. If the SWIR viewer is assembled with a thermal imager that can output its video signal then the SWIR viewer s HUD feature could display the thermal imagery. This configuration would enable the user to see shortwave and thermal energy simultaneously. Turning the SWIR viewer to its Display External Video mode would result in a biocular both eyes seeing the same image thermal device.

An Idevice is sensitive to the visible and near IR regions of the EM spectrum. A SWIR based device as described above is sensitive to the visible near IR and SWIR regions. Therefore more photonic radiation can be used to create an image. In addition SWIR illumination can be used to aid the sensitivity of the SWIR device. This illumination would not be detectable by visible or near IR devices.

The use of the SWIR based sensor eliminates the blooming or halo effects of Itubes. The use of an InGaAs Indium Galium Arside detector array is similar to a charge coupled device CCD camera. So it behaves like other digital cameras. The SWIR viewer is not limited to low light level environments like an Idevice. The SWIR viewer can be used in day and night. Since the detector has camera features the video signal generated can be displayed externally. In addition digital signal processing and Automatic Gain and Contrast AGC algorithms can be applied to the video signal.

The size and weight of the viewer allows it to be handheld head helmet mounted and tripod mounted. The size of typical SWIR cameras without a display are not handheld or head helmet mountable.

The interchangeable lens holder of the viewer allows for the use of various objective lenses. A 40 degree horizontal field of view micro lens can be used for mobility purposes while a COTS lens with a C mount thread can be used for data collection.

The uni body sensor and display assembly allow for easy assembly and troubleshooting. The entire assembly or stack consists of the SWIR detector display panel and associated electronics. It is inserted through the front of the housing. The power supply electronic board is inserted from the bottom of the housing.

The viewer accepts batteries e.g. two 2 CR123 batteries providing 6 VDC. The power supply electronic board up converts the nominal 6 VDC to an operating voltage level of 8 VDC. The electronic board also provides over voltage protection reverse voltage polarity protection monitors the power supply s voltage level and detects the presence of an external power supply.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to certain preferred embodiments it is obvious that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices sensors circuits etc the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component i.e. functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. For example a means and method may be provided for displaying an external video signal in the housing a display mechanism therein. In addition as an alternative provisions may be made for removably fastening the monocular binocular and tripod mounts to the housing. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

