---

title: Tubular linear synchronous motor gun
abstract: An electromagnetic (EM) launcher that receives electrical power is provided for ejecting a projectile. The launcher includes an armature for holding the projectile and a launch conduit for accelerating the armature along a longitudinal direction and thereby ejecting the projectile. The armature includes a Halbach array. The conduit includes a multi-phase linear synchronous motor (LSM) drive and short conducting elements. The Halbach array forms a plurality of concentric rings disposed longitudinally along the armature. Each ring contains a plurality of magnets distributed concentrically. Each magnet in the corresponding ring has a magnetic field oriented with north direction of the magnetic field pointing at one of radially inward, radially outward, longitudinally inward and longitudinally outward.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07444919&OS=07444919&RS=07444919
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07444919
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060829
---
The invention described was made in the performance official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to electromagnetic EM launchers. In particular the launcher incorporates a linear synchronous motor LSM drive. A projectile is contained within a bucket serving as an armature equipped with an annular Halbach array. The array uses magnets disposed parallel to the nozzle with adjacent magnets oriented perpendicular i.e. 2 rotation to each other in rotating fashion.

Conventional rail guns employ two or more conducting rails within the breech and or along the barrel to accelerate the armature that pushes the projectile for launch. The conventional technology exhibits deficiencies with rail life energy storage and transfer thermal management and sabot design.

Various exemplary embodiments of this invention for the LSM drive launcher provide acceleration for a projectile of any type size weight and shape up to 10 km s and greater in velocity to an altitude exceeding 14 km and a distance of over 20 000 km. Various exemplary embodiments of the launcher provide a viable alternative to conventional methods used today for ship self defense missile defense direct and indirect fire support force protection space transport tactical supply nuclear waste disposal space cargo immediate supply micro satellite launch and medical evacuation. The power for the LSM drive may be provided by a multi phase electrical power source with a cyclo converter having variable frequency and variable voltage.

Various exemplary embodiments of the launcher may be used to destroy any target anywhere on or above the earth. For American policy makers this may be accomplished from either the continental United States CONUS or else international waters. The projectile launched at hypervelocity speeds would be extremely difficult to intercept thereby rendering it virtually unstoppable. Consequently projectiles may be launched expeditiously and without endangering personnel and assets from retaliatory response. The intended targets could be mobile or fixed ground and air assets including satellites missiles and aircraft.

The ability to strike anywhere in the world within an hour from CONUS or within minutes from international waters would provide policy makers flexible capability for target neutralization. Also various exemplary embodiments may be used to ballistically deliver acceleration resistant supplies to beleaguered troops on the ground.

Various exemplary embodiments provide an EM launcher that receives electrical power to eject a projectile. The launcher includes an armature for holding the projectile and a launch conduit for accelerating the armature along a longitudinal direction and thereby ejecting the projectile. The armature includes a Halbach array. The conduit includes a multi phase LSM drive a plurality of permanent magnets both distributed longitudinally along the conduit.

The armature and the conduit may form concentric and radially successive tubular cross sections. The Halbach array forms a plurality of concentric rings disposed longitudinally along the armature. Each ring contains a plurality of magnets distributed concentrically. Each magnet in the corresponding ring has a magnetic field oriented with north direction of the magnetic field pointing at one of radially inward radially outward longitudinally inward and longitudinally outward.

In various exemplary embodiments a method for launching the projectile incorporates procedures for holding the projectile by an armature providing a Halbach array for the armature inserting the armature in a launch conduit having a longitudinal direction providing a multi phase LSM drive for the launch conduit providing a plurality of permanent magnets distributed longitudinally along the conduit in cooperation with the LSM drive and accelerating the armature along the longitudinal direction by supplying alternating electric current through the multi phase LSM drive.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The LSM drive may include one or more alternating current power sources to supply electric current for first second and third phases respectively. Alternatively the drive may employ a greater or lesser number of phases to supply alternating current to the conduit . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the description of a three phase drive is exemplary only and not limiting with respect to the scope of the invention.

Electric power may be carried by wires that helically envelop or otherwise coil around the launch conduit thereby forming a tubular track along which an object may travel. The wires carry the alternating electric current from the sources to create complimentary fluxing magnetic fields as understood by Maxwell s equations. These drawings are conceptual only and are not drawn to scale.

A plurality of induction track elements may be longitudinally distributed along the launch conduit at specified intervals. The induction track also known as Inductrack as developed by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories for train levitation obviates the necessity of superconducting coils or stability control circuits employed in other magnetic levitation i.e. maglev systems. Further background may be found in Maglev a new approach by R. F. Post January 2000.

The concentric elements represent shorted conducting material each formed in a ring configuration around the conduit . In response to the moving magnetic field produced by the Halbach array the elements may induce repulsive magnetic fields along the conduit to push against and thereby levitate the object to be translated along.

The breech end may contain an armature or launch bucket having distributed along a Halbach array of annular permanent magnets. The armature may be configured to hold a projectile to be ejected from the launcher at high speed. Upon command the armature may accelerate within the launch conduit from the breech end . Upon reaching a muzzle end of the launch conduit the bucket may be halted while the projectile continues longitudinal translation for ejection therefrom.

Each of the annular magnets in the Halbach array forms a toroidal ring having a magnetized orientation independent of an adjacent annular magnet. The induction track elements provide self induced levitation from the Halbach array in the armature by drawing about one watt per pound force of levitation. Although the induction track elements yield no thrust to the armature this effect provides consistent levitation force backup levitation in the event of power failure during launch and exponential damping for vibration produced by the drive .

The Halbach array is named after Klaus Halbach retired Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory physicist. Generally Halbach arrays employ permanent cross magnetized magnets disposed longitudinally in an array. This arrangement may concentrate a magnetic field at the forward face of the array while cancelling the field at its rear face. In addition to enhancing the magnetic field the field s longitudinal and transverse components may be substantially sinusoidal in their spatial variation with negligible high frequency harmonics. The Halbach array is described in further detail below.

In the configuration depicted by the drawings the projectile armature and conduit project successive radially enveloping concentric and co axial cylindrical profiles such that the armature and the conduit represent tubular cross sections. Those of ordinary skill will recognize that the axi symmetric components depicted therein including the launch conduit the armature the projectile and related items are exemplary only and may alternatively be designed to incorporate non circular cross sections. For example the Halbach array may be replaced with a conductive sleeve thereby creating a Linear Induction Motor version of the armature.

Field orientation of the annular magnets may correspond to north pointing radially outward for magnet radially inward for magnet axially outward and axially inward . A legend symbolically identifies each projection to the north direction across the page in 4 or 45 increments and into axially out and out of axially in the drawing. The orientations for magnets represent orthogonal north directions for emanation of their respective magnetic fields which can be described by perpendicular rotation shifts of 2 or 90 with respect to each adjacent magnet.

A double Halbach array is shown both at time tbeing stationary and time tfor the bucket in motion . The array includes pairs of magnets oriented together along the armature . Each magnet may be oriented north as depicted by the arrow shown. The double Halbach array includes doublet pairs of magnets both magnets in each pair having the same field orientation and each pair having field orientation orthogonal to the adjacent pair.

The array may produce a magnetic field shown by lines of uniform magnetic flux density across an array field length . The armature carrying the projectile travels along the conduit a distance of half the array field length or 2 in the time interval t t. These descriptions are presented for informational purposes only. The accompanying diagrams in are not drawn to scale particularly the positioning of the magnets relative to the coils.

Various exemplary embodiments employ a straight launch tube to shoot a hypersonic projectile to a target on or above the earth using self induced magnetic levitation and a permanent magnetic based tubular LSM drive. A system encompassing these embodiments may include seven portions a energy generation b power conversion c energy storage d launch tube e LSM LIM drive f launch bucket and g hypersonic projectile. A procedure for providing acceleration to the projectile may also be envisioned as incorporating these capabilities.

Energy generation and power conversion represent engineering tasks for requirements definition and design optimization and thus provide a practical solution to magnetic induced acceleration and launch of projectiles. The combination of a the Halbach array in the armature for traveling with the projectile b the multi phase tubular LSM drive along the launch conduit and optionally c the concentric elements of the induction track along the launch conduit into a viable concept represents new technology.

The LSM driven launcher or gun may provide several advantages over propelled missiles and the rail gun. The LSM technology is substantially mature for rapid prototyping development. The desired acceleration forces are feasible for designs employing the concepts described herein. Additionally the bucket may be reusable.

In contrast to missiles the inventive embodiments described herein require no chemically energetic propellant. The energy consumption curve may be more readily achievable being only 10amps compared 10amps for conventional rail gun designs in select applications. Additionally the system efficiency can be on the order of ninety percent.

An effective EM launcher could be used to replace the current 5 inch caliber ship board gun used by the United States Navy. Such a launcher could also be employed for land based fire support missile defense anti satellite weaponry air defense micro satellite launch nuclear waste disposal etc. By eliminating surface contact between the projectile and the launch tube using magnetic induced and inherent levitation frictional wear may be minimized. Consequently the energy costs for a launch may be below 5 per kilogram.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

