---

title: System, method and computer program product for concept-based searching and analysis
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer programs for performing concept-based searches and for creating content are described. According to one embodiment, a method is described wherein one or more concepts are identified and a search query is formed based on the identified concepts. The search query is used to perform one or more searches that retrieve one or more search results. According to another embodiment, a method is described wherein one or more concepts are identified in a first content source. Context related to at least one of the one or more concepts is extracted from the first content source, and a second content source is populated with at least a portion of the context.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07788251&OS=07788251&RS=07788251
owner: IxReveal, Inc.
number: 07788251
owner_city: Jacksonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061011
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 60 724 914 entitled System Method and Computer Program Product for Concept Based Searching and Analysis filed on Oct. 11 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The invention generally relates to a system method and computer program product for conducting concept based searches. The invention relates to a system method and computer program product for analyzing discovering classifying retrieving and creating information. In particular but not by way of limitation the present invention relates to a system method and computer program product for searching analyzing and creating information based on concepts.

As the use of the Internet becomes more pervasive business entities and individuals entities are increasingly using the Internet as a tool for obtaining information. For example an entity might check numerous World Wide Web sites and or databases sites for documents of interest to that entity. Typically the entity will use a search engine to check these sites. In recent years sophistication of search engines has improved increasing the search engines ability to produce search results that closely reflect the interests of the entity. The entity now presented with a larger volume of relevant documents cannot ignore the first second third or nth document returned by a search engine and must instead consider nearly all of the documents in order to comprehensively understand the context related to the entity s interests.

Recent industry research by OutSell Inc. demonstrates that entities are spending far more time than ever gathering data. At least a portion of this time could be more effectively spent on analysis of the gathered data which would ultimately lead to the discovery of critical information important to the entity.

Additionally investment by the entity in more sophisticated search technology may actually lead to even less time for analysis. According to the Delphi Group businesses are using anywhere from four to eight different search engines. Whether amassed from the public Internet the corporate intranet or information sources such as Lexis Nexis the result is information overload.

Results of current search solutions are putting more pressure on an entity causing the entity struggle with making sense of a gluttonous amount of relevant information. Ultimately it is the entity that must relate relevant information from a large volume of documents in a timely insightful and comprehensive manner. Additionally the information available for a given interest of an entity changes over time. Consequently an entity may be tasked with tracking over a period of time any additions and or deviations pertaining to the interests of that entity. In such instances the expanded volume of the search results places more burden on the entity.

As available information increases by the second the next generation of search solutions will need to implement companion technologies that work with existing search engines to provide new search and analysis capabilities to an entity. These new solutions must provide entities with a sophisticated and efficient method for defining what is important to them. In other words the new search solutions must allow the entity to perform searches using the entity s personal lens as opposed to standard enterprise taxonomies and search results that attempt to support the needs of all entities as if the interests of the entities were homogeneous. In addition the next generation of search solutions must provide entities with expanded control over critical analytics by allowing the entity to create customized charts graphs text and or various other methods for displaying search results. In addition the next generation of search solutions must support collaborative efforts between entities.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

Several aspects of the invention pertain to a system method and computer product for performing a concept based search. According to these aspects one or more concepts are identified and a search query is formed based on the identified concepts. The search query is used to perform one or more searches that retrieve one or more search results.

Additional aspects of the invention pertain to a system method and computer product for creating content. According to these aspects one or more concepts are identified in a first content source. Context related to at least one of the one or more concepts is extracted from the first content source and a second content source is populated with at least a portion of the context.

As previously stated the above described embodiments and implementations are for illustration purposes only. Numerous other embodiments implementations and details of the invention are easily recognized by those of skill in the art from the following descriptions and claims.

The invention generally relates to a system method and computer program product for conducting concept based searches. Several of the embodiments of the invention permit users to search unstructured information using searching parameters derived from concepts. Other embodiments of the invention permit users to extract concepts from search results identified during concept based searches. Additional embodiments of the invention permit users to create data text images and or other suitable content using search results concepts extracted from search results previously defined concepts and or a collection of files documents emails websites and or blogs.

Aspects of the invention are designed to operate on computer systems servers and or other like devices. While the details of the invention may vary and still be within the scope of the claimed invention shows a block diagram depicting a typical network system for conducting concept base searches. The network system is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the network system be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary network system .

Aspects of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or server. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As is shown the network system includes a communications network such as the Internet or a private network capable of providing communication between search engine s user terminal and other user terminal s described hereinafter. The devices of may communicate with each other via any number of methods known in the art including wired and wireless communication pathways.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate various intermediary network routing and other elements between the communication network the search engines the user terminal and the user terminals have been omitted for the sake of simplicity. Such intermediary elements may include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN gateways or other server devices and other network infrastructure provided by Internet service providers ISPs .

As shown in the user terminal may comprise one or more computing devices including a computer a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone and or any other computing device capable of operating within both the scope and spirit of the invention. The user terminal may also include one or more databases for storage of data accessible to the one or more computing devices as well as other computing devices not shown in the network system .

One or more embodiments of the invention pertain to the creation use and modification of one or more concepts. In a preferred embodiment a concept represents one or more meanings in view of one or more particular frames of reference and or contexts. The concept may comprise one or more elements such as words images numbers symbols ideas and or relationships shared between words images numbers symbols documents data sets and or other relationships. One of skill in the art will appreciate additional elements of concepts while keeping within both the scope and spirit of the invention. Concepts are described in additional detail in patent application Ser. No. 10 695 426 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Results from Search Engines filed on Oct. 29 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 677 492 entitled System and Method for Concept Based Analysis of Unstructured Data filed on Oct. 3 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 393 677 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information and Providing Trends and Exceptions Tracking Capabilities filed on Mar. 19 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 970 881 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information. filed on Mar. 1 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference and which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 302 971 filed on May 5 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Attention is now drawn to which illustrates a flowchart detailing a concept based search process performed by the system for identifying analyzing and refining relevant search results.

As illustrated in step the user terminal selects one or more concepts to form the basis of a concept based search. By way of example depicts five methods for selecting the one or more concepts.

For example the user terminal may access one or more existing concept bank s that each store one or more predefined concepts step . Concept banks as described in accordance with some embodiments of the invention may be stored at any number of locations in the system including the database . Storage of the concept banks may be implemented using any number of file extensions including .CBK or .IXR. One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative storage locations and file extensions while keeping within both the scope and the spirit of the invention.

Another method for selecting the one or more concepts allows the user terminal to formulate a concept via user input that describes the concept step . The description entered by the user may include words phrases sentences paragraphs and or other information e.g. images numbers symbols data etc. that signify the meaning of the concept. The description may alternatively consist of one or more pieces of information taken from data text and or imagex. New concepts like those created with respect to step may be added to a temporary new or existing concept bank stored in the database or in any other suitable storage device.

The user terminal may alternatively capture one or more search queries stored in the database and or in other storing mechanisms connected to the user terminal step . In this way the user terminal may capture search queries entered by one or more users through various search interfaces. The search queries represent the access habits of the one or more users and may therefore be useful to define concepts of interest for those one or more users.

An optional method for selecting the one or more concepts allows the user terminal to extract a new concept from data and or text step . In several embodiments of the invention a user at the user terminal selects specific data and or text and the user terminal extracts concepts from the selected data text. One example of a concept extraction procedure may be found in patent application Ser. No. 10 695 426 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Results from Search Engines filed on Oct. 29 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 677 492 entitled System and Method for Concept Based Analysis of Unstructured Data filed on Oct. 3 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 393 677 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information and Providing Trends and Exceptions Tracking Capabilities filed on Mar. 19 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 970 881 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information. filed on Mar. 1 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference and which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 302 971 filed on May 5 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference however one of skill in the art will appreciate that alternative extraction algorithms may be used to extract concepts automatically from the selected data and or text.

Another option for selecting the one or more concepts includes receiving a concept from a shared source e.g. another user a website etc. or another concept based search step . This scenario is similar to the scenario described with respect to step because the concepts are predefined and accessibly stored.

One of skill in the art will recognize alternative embodiments not described above that allow the user terminal to select one or more concepts.

Attention is now drawn to step of where the user terminal selects content that is to be search. Sources of the content may include the World Wide Web WWW specified databases e.g. the database specified documents and or specified collections of data. During this step the user terminal may identify one or more internal and or external search engines to be used while accessing the selected content.

Internal search engines search the contents of the user terminal e.g. the database and or other file systems visible to the user terminal via networks similar to the communication network . Examples of internal search engines include Microsoft s desktop search application Google Desktop and Enfish.

External search engines search any network external to the user terminal . Examples of external search engines include public search engines like Google MSN and Yahoo that search the Internet. External search engines may also include private search engines that search Intranet documents.

The user terminal in step formulates a search query based on the selected concepts and or the selected content. By way of example illustrates a plurality of steps used to formulate a search query in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. In step the user terminal accesses additional information pertaining to the selected concepts. The additional information may include among other things definitions and or associated descriptions pertaining to concepts selected in step of . The additional information may also or alternatively include information taken from the original sources of the concepts.

The user terminal in step creates a general search query using the additional information accessed in step . The general search query may comprise text in addition to various search operators that enable the user terminal to refine and or expand the scope of the concept based search. Examples of search operators include Boolean operators proximity operators occurrence operators synonym operators and various other operators known in the art. In step the user terminal then modifies the general search query via user input or an algorithm that analyzes that contents of the general search query with respect to necessity and or effectiveness.

The user terminal at step converts the general search query to the query language of each search engine identified in step of . In one embodiment if a particular search engine does not support a certain search operator used in the general search query the user terminal will replace that certain search operator with a more relaxed operator supported by the search engine. For example if the general search query included a proximity operator that the search engine does not support the user terminal may instead use a Boolean operator e.g. AND for that search engine.

According to once a search query is formed for a particular search engine the user terminal may perform a search on the content selected in step that is accessible by the particular search engine step . Prior to the search the user terminal may restrict the search to certain dates document types databases and other parameters. Following the search the user terminal may receive one or more search results pertaining to that particular search engine and other search engines on which a similar search was conducted step .

Following the receipt of the one or more search results the user terminal filters the search results step . By way of example depicts several actions that are potentially taken by the user terminal during filtering step . For example in one embodiment the user terminal may organize at least a portion of the search results based on the relevance of that portion of search results to one or more of the selected concepts step . One example of determining the relevance of search results to one or more selected concepts may be found in patent application Ser. No. 10 695 426 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Results from Search Engines filed on Oct. 29 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference however one of skill in the art will appreciate that alternative methods systems and computer programs may be used to determine the relevance of search results to selected concepts.

In other embodiments the user terminal may apply to a particular search result any of the search operators that were not applied by a particular search engine step . In this embodiment the user terminal may take the additional step of removing portions of the search results that do not match the search operators step . Additionally the user terminal may organize the updated search results based on a relevancy determination similar to that described with respect to step .

In another embodiment the user terminal may combine search results from different search engines step and or remove duplicative portions of the combined search results step . Additionally the user terminal may remove duplicative portions within a single search result. The user terminal may then organize the combined search results based on relevance to the selected concepts step .

Still in other embodiments the user terminal may for a selected concept chosen via user input or an algorithm step retrieve one or more portions of the search results that pertain to that selected concept . The user terminal may additionally organize the retrieved portions of the search results based on a relevancy to the selected concept step .

In yet other embodiments the user terminal may select one or more portions of the search results step and then retrieve selected concepts that pertain to the selected portions of the search results step . The user terminal may additionally organize the retrieved concepts based on a relevancy to the portions of the search results.

Attention is now drawn to which depicts a diagram of a plurality of actions available to the user terminal after the search results are filtered in step of .

According to the user terminal may save any of the search results any subsequent analysis pertaining to the search results any of the concepts selected in step or and or any new concepts derived from the search results step .

In one embodiment the user terminal may save any search results analysis and associated concepts in an analytic workbook. The analytical workbook can be accessed at any time for continued analysis and or additional searching. Additionally the contents of multiple analytical workbooks may be combined for subsequent analysis and or searching.

In another embodiment the user terminal may save search results from one or more searches in one or more virtual folders with specified descriptions. A specific virtual folder description may be a concept or any other description capable of conveying the content stored in a specific virtual folder. Additionally the user terminal may select one or more concepts and apply them to the contents of any number of virtual folders. In this manner the user terminal is able to leverage portions of different searches that are relevant to the current search being performed by the user terminal .

In yet another embodiment the user terminal may request that search results be automatically routed to certain virtual folders based on any number of factors including relevance of the search results to the virtual folder description.

As shown in the user terminal may display representations of all or a portion of the search results analysis and or concepts step . For example in one embodiment the user terminal may display a search results concepts matrix which places concepts on a first axis search results on a second axis and a metric which is associated with a relationship between each of the selected concepts and each portion of the search results at the intersection s of the first axis and the second axis. The metric associated with a relationship between each of the selected concepts and each portion of the search results may include any number of relationships. For example but not by way of limitation such relationships may include relevancy non relevancy degree of presence degree of absence and or proximity.

By way of example shows a search results concepts matrix in accordance with one embodiment which includes a first axis and a second axis . The first axis includes concepts such as coverage pricing products and service and the second axis includes search results such as updated survey data . The metric provided at the intersection of the first axis and the second axis pertains to a degree of presence e.g. 346 300 761 and 543 .

In another embodiment the user terminal may optionally display the relationship between a particular concept and the search results by showing sub concepts associated with the particular concept on one axis e.g. the first axis and portions of the search results on another axis e.g. the second axis . Additionally the user terminal may display the relationship of a particular sub concept and the search results by showing child concepts to the particular sub concept on one axis e.g. the first axis and portions of the search results on another axis e.g. the second axis . Alternatively the user terminal may display the relationship between a particular portion of the search results and one or more concepts. One of skill in the art will appreciate the variations of drilling down into the search results concepts matrix including variations when the user terminal shows the relationship between a particular concept and a particular portion of the search results.

In one embodiment of the invention the user terminal displays drilled down versions of a search results concepts matrix after a user clicks on a particular concept portion of the search results or intersection between a particular concept and a particular portion of the search results. One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments in which an algorithm displays drilled down versions of a search results concepts matrix without user intervention.

In some embodiments the user terminal may display particular portions of the search results with indications of the concepts therein. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention shows a display depicting a particular portion of the search results e.g. 06 24 2005.txt and indications of a particular concept e.g. price pricing as that particular concept pertains to the particular portion . In the indications are highlighted occurrences of the particular concept . One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments that include different indications.

In other embodiments the user terminal may display one or more relationships between two or more concepts and or between one or more concepts and structure elements in the searched content. Structure elements include grammatical elements such as periods commas hyphens etc. as well as organizational elements such as headings placement in a sentence paragraph or section and various other organization elements known in the art.

By way of example shows a relationship discovery matrix in accordance with one embodiment which displays relationships between multiple concepts . The relationships in this case include In the Same document Within 2 words of each other and Next to each other however one of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments using other relationships. The matrix displays at a concept concept intersection the relationships between individual concepts associated with the intersection . The user terminal may drill down at a particular concept concept intersection to display a more detailed view of the relationships pertaining to the particular combination of concepts associated with that intersection .

In yet another embodiment the user terminal may display the search results using a game interface where one or more portions of the search results successively enter a user s screen and then eventually exit the user s screen. Additionally the user terminal may display a particular portion of the search results with an indication of that portion s relationship to one or more of the selected concepts. For example the user terminal may display a particular color that indicates relevance of a particular portion of the search results to one or more particular concepts. Optionally the user terminal may extract concepts from the portions of search results as they enter the user s screen. Moreover the user terminal may then subsequently display indications of the extracted concepts on the user s screen.

Still in other embodiments the user terminal may display the search results in the form of a graph or in a pictorial representation. By way of example shows a pictorial representation in accordance with one embodiment of the invention where an arc reflects a relationship e.g. occurrence proximity relevancy etc. between search results and a concept . By way of example shows a pictorial representation in accordance with one embodiment of the invention where an arc that connects a concept and a portion of the search results indicates a relationship between the concept and the portion of the search results . In other embodiments the arc may be colored to indicate the extent of the relationship e.g. occurrence proximity relevancy etc. between the concept and the portion of the search results . In other embodiments the user terminal may display certain concepts and or display certain portions of the search results as is shown in .

Still in other embodiments the user terminal may add a new concept to a pre existing display. In this scenario the user terminal updates based on the addition of the new concept the relationships pertaining to the pre existing concepts and the pre existing search results in the pre existing display. The user terminal then creates a new display that combines the updates to the pre existing concepts and the pre existing search results with a representation of the new concept and its relationships to the pre existing concepts and or pre existing search results. It is also possible for the user terminal to add new content to a pre existing display via a method similar to the one described above with respect to adding a new concept. By way of example shows a pictorial representation of search results in accordance with one embodiment where a new concept has been added to a pre existing display and where new content has been added to the pre existing display.

As shown in the user terminals and may optionally share search results analysis and or concepts step . Sharing in such a manner may be accomplished via any number of ways such as email website uploads downloads e.g. from a web portal virtual folders and secure databases among others known in the art. One advantage of this aspect of the invention is the increased efficiency and effectiveness of a search conducted by the user terminal . By sharing search results analysis and or concepts the user terminal can leverage the previous work of other user terminals and apply the previous work in a search scope that is relevant to the user terminal .

Additionally another aspect of the invention allows a user terminal to conduct searches based on a profile of a user in communication with the user terminal or another user terminal . For example a profile may store information pertaining to interests of a user characteristics of a user e.g. spending habits historical searches etc. preferences of a user regarding particular types of sources for retrieving search results among others. Profiles may capture user emotional preferences cognitive ability personal experience educational level etc. The user terminal may form a profile of a user. For example the user terminal may form a user profile by reviewing the concept bank s a user has accessed during a given time period.

According to the user terminal may combine additional content with any portion of the search results step and then analyze the combined content and search results step .

As shown in the user terminal may also create and or modify text data images and or other suitable content based on search results analysis and or concepts step . In one embodiment the user terminal identifies potential concepts of interest step . For example the user terminal may accomplish step by extracting concepts from text data images and or other suitable content that may contain one or more concepts. One example of a concept extraction procedure may be found in patent application Ser. No. 10 695 426 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Results from Search Engines filed on Oct. 29 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 677 492 entitled System and Method for Concept Based Analysis of Unstructured Data filed on Oct. 3 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 393 677 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information and Providing Trends and Exceptions Tracking Capabilities filed on Mar. 19 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 970 881 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information. filed on Mar. 1 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference and which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 302 971 filed on May 5 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference however one of skill in the art will appreciate that alternative extraction algorithms may be used to extract concepts automatically from the selected data and or text.

One aspect of the invention allows the user terminal to identify concepts that are relevant to a particular perspective of the user terminal or a user in communication with the user terminal . In one embodiment the user terminal may extract concepts from content by relating the content to concepts stored in particular databases e.g. internal or external concept bank s of one or more certain perspectives . In this manner the types of concepts identified by the user terminal reflect one or more of a plurality of a specific views.

The user terminal may alternatively extract concepts from text data images and or other suitable content while that content is being added to subtracted from and or modified by various other methods. Under scenarios where concepts within the text data images etc. change due to the one or more modifications the user terminal will recognize the changes and update the extracted concepts accordingly. By way of example the user terminal may extract a first identified concept from content while a user in communication with the user terminal is adding more information to the content. After the user has added more information to the content the user terminal may determine that a second identified concept more accurately reflects the content in its expanded form and that the first identified concept is less relevant or no longer relevant to the expanded content. Alternatively the user terminal may without user intervention extract concepts from content that the user terminal is modifying.

Additionally in some embodiments the user terminal may accomplish step by receiving user specified concepts. In such an embodiment the user terminal may identify one or more concepts specified by a user in communication with the user terminal . The user terminal may additionally receive from the user a specified organizational structure e.g. an outline hierarchy etc. that determines how each concept and context related to each concept will be displayed with respect other concepts and context. Alternatively the user terminal may determine one or more possible organizational structures based on the relationships of the concepts to one another. Under this scenario the user terminal may present the one or more possible organizational structures for user selection or may use all or a portion of the one or more organizational structures individually without user selection. Additionally or alternatively the user terminal may identify concepts that were not received from the user and then add those concepts automatically or after user authorization to the one or more organizational structures.

As shown at step the user terminal may display one or more of the identified concepts and or information associated with the one or more identified concepts.

For example as shown in the user terminal may display concepts to a user via a pop up window on the user s screen . Alternatively the user terminal may display concepts via a less obtrusive application window on the user s screen .

After the user terminal displays an identified concept the user may copy and paste into content accessible by the user e.g. a document an email a webpage or any other computer tool that conveys information a portion or all of the concept and or information associated with the concept. Alternatively the user may manually enter into content accessible by the user a portion or all of the concept and or information associated with the concept. In an alternative embodiment the user may select a displayed concept e.g. by single or double clicking on the displayed concept and a portion or all of the concept along with information associated with the concept will be imported into content specified by the user.

In another embodiment the user may select a displayed concept e.g. by single or double clicking on the displayed concept for a detailed review of its meaning and or information associated with the concept. In this manner the user is able to confirm that the displayed concept is applicable to the interests of the user. Alternatively the user terminal may automatically confirm applicability of the displayed concept.

In alternative embodiments the user terminal may automatically or after user authorization import a portion or all of an identified concept and or information associated with the concept into content e.g. a document an email a webpage or any other computer tool that is capable of conveying information . The content to which a portion all of the identified concept information associated with the concept is imported may or may not be content from which the identified concept was identified.

As shown in step the user terminal may administer a search based on one or more of the concepts identified by the user terminal . In one embodiment the user terminal automatically conducts a search based on an identified concept. In an alternative embodiment the user terminal conducts a search based on an identified concept after user selection of that concept e.g. by single or double clicking on the displayed concept . Search techniques similar to those described above with respect to may be used during step . One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative search techniques that may be used during step

As shown at step the user terminal may display results from a search that was based on an identified concept. The search results may include among other things context associated with the identified concept.

As shown in the user terminal may display search results to a user via a pop up window on the user s screen . Alternatively the user terminal may display search results via a less obtrusive application window on the user s screen .

After the user terminal displays a search result the user may copy and paste into content accessible by the user e.g. a document an email a webpage or any other computer tool that conveys information a portion or all of the search result. Alternatively the user may manually enter into content accessible by the user a portion or all of the search result. In an alternative embodiment the user may select a displayed search result e.g. by single or double clicking on the displayed search result and a portion or all of the search result will be imported into content specified by the user.

In another embodiment the user may select a displayed search result e.g. by single or double clicking on the displayed search result for a detailed review of its contents. In this manner the user is able to confirm that the displayed search result is applicable to the interests of the user.

In alternative embodiments the user terminal may automatically or after user authorization import a portion or all of a search result into content e.g. a document an email a webpage or any other computer tool that is capable of conveying information . The content to which a portion or all of the search result is imported may or may not be content from which an identified concept of which formed the basis for the imported search result was identified.

As mentioned above a search result may contain context associated with a concept. For example in cases where a search result returns a large amount of information or when a concept is scattered throughout a search result it may be necessary to summarize the search result in order to capture the true context associated with the concept.

In one embodiment the user terminal summarizes the search result by extracting a portion of the search result immediately before and after one or more of the occurrence s of a concept in thIn one embodiment the user terminal summarizes the search result by extracting a portion of the search result immediately before and after one or more of the occurrence s of a concept in the search result. In one embodiment a user in communication with the user terminal may configure the size of this portion of the search result. For example the portion may be set at n words sentences paragraphs etc. By way of example illustrates a computer interface that displays summarized portions of search results after those portions have been imported into content e.g. a Word document .

In another embodiment the user terminal may extract concepts within a search result and or apply additional concepts to the search result and then use those extracted applied concepts to summarize the context associated with the concept on which the search result was based. Alternatively the user terminal may determine the context associated with the concept on which the search result was based by interpreting the grammar structure within a specified proximity of the concept in the search result. One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments that allow a search result to be summarize in the context of a concept within the search result.

At step the user terminal may extract concepts from content that has been created. Techniques for extracting concepts similar to those described above may be used during step

According to some embodiments of the invention the user terminal may analyze one or more portions of search results by applying search operators similar to those discussed with respect to step of step . One advantage of this aspect of the invention is that the user terminal may mine the search results at any time based on different viewpoints.

Aspects of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or server. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The exemplary systems and methods of the invention have been described above with respect to the user terminal . One of skill in the art will appreciate embodiments of the invention wherein the functions of the user terminal are performed via computer executable instructions.

Attention is now drawn to which depicts an exemplary implementation of the user terminal . The implementation depicted in includes a processor coupled to ROM input output devices e.g. a keyboard mouse etc. a media drive e.g. a disk drive USB port etc. a network connection a display a memory e.g. random access memory RAM and a file storage device

The storage device is described herein in several implementations as hard disk drive for convenience but this is certainly not required and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other storage media may be utilized without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the storage device which is depicted for convenience as a single storage device may be realized by multiple e.g. distributed storage devices.

As shown a concept based search software application includes a Concept Selection module a Content Selection module a Search Query Formation module a Search module and a Search Results Analysis module which are implemented in software and are executed from the memory by the processor . The software can be configured to operate on personal computers e.g. handheld notebook or desktop servers or any device capable of processing instructions embodied in executable code. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that alternative embodiments which implement one or more components in hardware are well within the scope of the invention.

Each module is associated with one or more of the steps described above with respect to . For example the Concept Selection module pertains to steps and the Content Selection module pertains to step the Search Query Formation module pertains to steps and the Search module pertains to steps and the Search Results Analysis module pertains to steps and .

For a complete review of the implementations applicable to certain embodiments of the present invention see patent application Ser. No. 10 695 426 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Results from Search Engines filed on Oct. 29 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 677 492 entitled System and Method for Concept Based Analysis of Unstructured Data filed on Oct. 3 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 10 393 677 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information and Providing Trends and Exceptions Tracking Capabilities filed on Mar. 19 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference and which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 6 970 881 entitled Concept Based Method and System for Dynamically Analyzing Unstructured Information. filed on Mar. 1 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference and which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 302 971 filed on May 5 2001 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims.

