---

title: Fulfillment network with customer-transparent costs
abstract: Methods and systems for customer-transparent inventory fulfillment costs. A method may include an enterprise detecting a customer's selection of a given one of a number of inventory items, and in response to detecting the selection, the enterprise generating a display and instructing that the display be displayed to the customer. The display may include fulfillment options for the given item, where each of the options includes an indication of a corresponding fulfillment entity within a fulfillment network and an indication of a corresponding price. The price may be determined dependent upon fulfillment costs of completing order fulfillment of the given item for the customer from the corresponding fulfillment entity. The method may further include the enterprise detecting placement by the customer of an order specifying the given inventory item and a particular fulfillment option, and the enterprise conveying fulfillment instructions to the fulfillment entity corresponding to the particular fulfillment option.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08374922&OS=08374922&RS=08374922
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08374922
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060922
---
This invention relates to materials handling systems and more particularly to management of costs within a materials handling system.

An enterprise that receives consumes transforms or distributes material during the course of its operations may implement a materials handling system to coordinate how material is managed within the enterprise. For example in a manufacturing context material may include raw materials feedstocks parts etc. that may arrive at a manufacturing facility for processing as well as intermediate or finished goods resulting from the manufacturing process. Similarly in a distribution context retailers wholesalers and other types of distributors may receive materials such as goods or products and distribute them to clients or customers.

Material may be stored as inventory within an inventory facility and made available for ordering or use by clients or customers. For example in a manufacturing context a client may include a step of a manufacturing process that includes a particular type of material as an input while in a retail context a client may include a customer who places an order for a product. In conventional materials handling systems like items often may be stored together within inventory. For example items having a common Universal Product Code UPC Stock Keeping Unit SKU code or other designation including proprietary designations may be stored together within inventory.

When retrieval of material from inventory is necessary for example in response to a client s order or to replenish a manufacturing process one or several inventory items must be retrieved or picked from inventory and prepared for delivery to the requestor or recipient. In an inventory environment that includes a large number of many different items and services the demands of a number of different requesters at any given time there may be a substantial number of outstanding requests for picking items. To improve picking productivity a materials handling system may employ multiple item pickers distributed throughout an inventory facility and may assign different picking operations including in some cases picking of different items for a single order to different pickers.

The costs of providing material from inventory to a customer may be affected by the availability of ordered material within the materials handling facility. For example if a customer orders several items that are not available within a single facility the costs for separately providing the items to the customer may be considerably higher than if the items were located within the same facility and could for example be picked packaged and shipped together. Such excess costs due to inventory placement are typically borne by the enterprise and may erode profitability for example with respect to low margin inventory.

Various embodiments of a method and system for managing customer orders using customer transparent fulfillment costs are disclosed. In one embodiment rather than absorbing the costs of fulfilling orders that are split across different fulfillment entities an order management system may be configured to present a number of fulfillment options for a given inventory item to a customer. The options may reflect the fulfillment costs associated with fulfilling the given inventory item from various available fulfillment entities. The customer may then select how the order should be fulfilled. For example the customer may select options that result in items being fulfilled from the same entity or different entities and may pay fulfillment costs that vary correspondingly.

In one particular embodiment a method may include an enterprise detecting a selection by a customer of a given one of a number of inventory items and in response to detecting the selection the enterprise generating a display and instructing that the display be displayed to the customer. The display may include fulfillment options for the given inventory item where each of the fulfillment options includes an indication of a corresponding fulfillment entity within a fulfillment network and an indication of a corresponding price. The price may be determined dependent upon fulfillment costs of completing order fulfillment of the given inventory item for the customer from the corresponding fulfillment entity. The method may further include the enterprise detecting placement by the customer of an order specifying the given inventory item and a particular one of the plurality of fulfillment options and the enterprise conveying fulfillment instructions to the fulfillment entity corresponding to the particular fulfillment option.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

As summarized above in some embodiments fulfillment options reflecting varying fulfillment costs for items may be presented to customers for selection during an ordering process. Various embodiments of methods and systems for order management using transparent fulfillment costs are described in detail below. Owing to the complexity of the disclosed techniques discussion is divided into several sections to facilitate exposition. However it is noted that embodiments of the methods and systems are not limited by the section headings or the particular order in which aspects of the system are described. Further it is noted that in the following discussion materials handling is described in the context of fulfillment of customer orders from a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items. However it is intended that the terms order fulfillment and fulfillment center encompass any type of materials handling system in which material is stored and selected in response to a request or order.

First an overview of an exemplary fulfillment center embodiment and examples of fulfillment networks including multiple fulfillment entities are provided. The problem of order assignment within a fulfillment network is discussed and a method of generating a display of fulfillment options from which a customer may select is described. Several embodiments of such a display are discussed and finally an exemplary computer system embodiment that may be configured to implement the foregoing methods and techniques is described.

As mentioned above an enterprise such as a retailer wholesaler distributor manufacturer or other type of entity may receive and store various types of inventory items and may distribute selected inventory items to customers in response to customer orders. To facilitate inventory operations such an enterprise may maintain one or more fulfillment centers. In more complex embodiments an enterprise may maintain a fulfillment network that may include a number of enterprise managed fulfillment centers and possibly contract or third party inventory sources. The general organization of an exemplary fulfillment center is first described followed by a discussion of embodiments of a fulfillment network.

An inventory facility or materials handling facility in which inventory selection for order fulfillment occurs may also be referred to as a fulfillment center. One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment fulfillment center includes a receiving area a storage area configured to store an arbitrary number of items and a packing shipping area . The arrangement of the various areas within the illustrated embodiment of fulfillment center is depicted functionally rather than schematically. For example in some embodiments it is noted that multiple different receiving areas storage areas and packing shipping areas may be interspersed rather than segregated. Additionally fulfillment center includes an inventory management system configured to interact with each of receiving area storage area and packing shipping area . For example as described below system may be configured to interact with other systems or agents located within the aforementioned areas.

Fulfillment center may be configured to receive different kinds of items from various suppliers and to store them until a customer order specifying particular ones of items is received. The particular items may then be selected from storage and sent to the customer. The general flow of items through fulfillment center is indicated using arrows. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment items may be received from one or more suppliers such as manufacturers distributors wholesalers etc. at receiving area . In various embodiments items may include merchandise commodities perishables or any suitable type of item depending on the nature of the enterprise that operates fulfillment center . Upon being received from a supplier at receiving area items may be prepared for storage. For example in some embodiments items may be unpacked or otherwise rearranged and inventory management system which as described below may include one or more software applications executing on a computer system may be updated to reflect the type quantity condition cost or any other suitable parameters with respect to newly received items .

It is noted that items may be stocked managed or dispensed in terms of countable individual units or multiples of units such as packages cartons crates pallets or other suitable aggregations. Alternatively some items such as bulk products commodities etc. may be stored in continuous or arbitrarily divisible amounts that may not be inherently organized into countable units. Such items may be managed in terms of measurable quantities such as units of length area volume weight time duration or other dimensional properties characterized by units of measurement. Generally speaking a quantity of an item may refer to either a countable number of individual or aggregate units of an item or a measurable amount of an item as appropriate.

After arriving through receiving area items may be stored within storage area . Storage area may generally include any suitable configuration of racks bins shelves open areas and or other facilities for holding items after they have been received and prior to their being picked or otherwise removed from inventory. As described in greater detail below in conjunction with the descriptions of in some embodiments the placement of various types of items within storage area may vary depending on patterns of anticipated demand for the items . For example the distribution of a given item within storage area may depend at least in part on a rate or volume with which the given item is expected to be picked or on a similar metric such as an average expected holding time for the given item .

When a customer order specifying one or more of items is received the corresponding items may be selected or picked from storage area . In various embodiments item picking may range from minimally automated to completely automated picking including any suitable combination of manual and automated processes. For example in one embodiment fulfillment center employees may pick items using written or electronic pick lists derived from customer orders while in another embodiment conveyor belts and robotics may be used to pick and transfer items . After the items corresponding to a particular order are picked they may be processed at packing shipping area for delivery to the customer. For example items may be packaged for shipment to the customer using a common carrier or simply bagged or otherwise prepared for direct transfer to a customer e.g. at an order pickup counter. In some embodiments further interaction with inventory management system may occur when items are picked from storage area and or processed at packing shipping area for example to update inventory records to reflect the removal of inventory to record revenue for the sale or other transaction e.g. lease rental exchange etc. and so forth.

It is noted that items may be picked or selected from storage area for reasons other than customer orders. For example items may be removed on account of damage to be liquidated or otherwise disposed of to be returned to a supplier to be conveyed to a different fulfillment center or for any other reason. In some embodiments items being picked for customer orders and for other reasons may be commingled in a manner transparent to the agent performing the picking and subsequently sorted according to their intended destinations. It is further noted that a customer for a given order may be any entity that may place or request an order for one or more items or have such an order placed or requested on its behalf. For example a customer may be an individual or an organization. A customer may also be a virtual entity having a material input of some kind. For example a customer may be a particular step or stage of a manufacturing assembly or other type of process.

In some instances a single fulfillment center may be insufficient to meet an enterprise s operational demands. For example an enterprise that seeks to serve customers in a large geographical area may wish to distribute inventory among multiple different fulfillment centers in order to reduce shipping costs and or times to customers. For certain types of items such as items having special handling requirements that may be difficult to accommodate e.g. bulky perishable or exotic items an enterprise may wish to make such items available to customers for ordering while contracting fulfillment of such items to a third party rather than incurring the expense and or complexity of attempting to manage such items itself. A variety of other reasons may motivate implementation of a fulfillment network that offers different possible sources from which items may be fulfilled.

Generally speaking a fulfillment network may include a number of different fulfillment entities each capable of providing certain items in response to customer orders. Several embodiments of a fulfillment network are illustrated in . In the embodiment of fulfillment network includes a number of fulfillment centers each of which may be illustrative of fulfillment center of . Fulfillment network may be considered an example of a homogeneous fulfillment network in which the enterprise establishing the network may maintain direct control over the management and contents of the fulfillment centers within network . For example the enterprise may bear accounting or other financial responsibility for the items stored within fulfillment centers may directly determine how inventory and orders are managed and processed within fulfillment centers and may act as the merchant of record for customer orders fulfilled from network

Another embodiment of a fulfillment network is illustrated in . As shown fulfillment network includes a number of fulfillment centers as well as a contract fulfillment entity and several merchants . The various entities included within fulfillment networks may be referred to generically as fulfillment entities while fulfillment networks may be referred to generically as fulfillment network .

Fulfillment network may be considered an example of a heterogeneous fulfillment network in which the enterprise establishing the network may in some instances delegate some degree of control of and or financial responsibility for certain inventory items to a fulfillment entity other than an enterprise managed fulfillment center . For example in the illustrated embodiment contract fulfillment entity may correspond to a drop shipper franchised fulfiller or other third party entity that has arranged to provide fulfillment services for certain items on behalf of the enterprise that manages and supplies orders to fulfillment network . In some embodiments contract fulfillment entity may bear responsibility for its own costs in acquiring storing picking packaging and shipping the inventory items it fulfills on behalf of an enterprise in exchange for a fee or other compensation for fulfillment services though in some such embodiments the enterprise may still act as the merchant of record with regard to customer transactions fulfilled by contract fulfillment entity . In other embodiments different financial and business relationships may be established between contract fulfillment entity and the enterprise on behalf of which it acts. The cost burden of providing inventory holding and fulfillment services may be divided among the parties according to any suitable arrangement for example on a per item basis on an aggregate basis over time on the basis of actual utilization of services or a negotiated level of utilization or other arrangements.

Merchants may correspond to third party entities which like contract fulfillment entity may provide their own fulfillment services for certain items . For example merchants may correspond to independent businesses that may arrange for an enterprise to provide a storefront or other business presence e.g. via an electronic or web based storefront or catalog customer order management services payment services and or other types of business services. In response to receiving an order to be fulfilled a merchant may pick and ship a corresponding item to a customer in any suitable fashion. In some embodiments unlike contract fulfillment entity merchants may also serve as independent merchants of record for the customer orders they fulfill. That is merchants may assume the legal and financial responsibility for the customer transactions they fulfill while the enterprise through which the transaction was initiated may function as an intermediary. By contrast the enterprise that manages fulfillment network may serve as the merchant of record for items fulfilled out of the enterprise s own fulfillment centers or by contract fulfillment entity . As with contract fulfillment entity any suitable cost arrangement for fulfillment services may be implemented between the enterprise and merchants . For example a particular merchant may pay a per item or per order commission or a flat subscription fee to the enterprise in exchange for order traffic.

By provisioning a network that includes a number of fulfillment entities an enterprise may be able to tune its inventory mix and placement in order to reduce its fulfillment costs and increase revenues. For example in a homogeneous network such as network an enterprise may be able to position inventory closer to customers reducing shipping costs. In a heterogeneous network such as network an enterprise may elect to fulfill certain types of items from its own fulfillment centers such as items having high margins or relatively low costs of storage and fulfillment while it may rely on other parties for fulfillment of other types of items . For certain items an enterprise may elect to allow a third party merchant to act as the merchant of record as described above while retaining fees for services provided to the merchant in attracting and processing the order.

Although two specific example of fulfillment networks have been described above it is contemplated that in other embodiments a fulfillment network may include any suitable combination of fulfillment entities. For example a network may include a combination of fulfillment centers and contract fulfillment providers without merchants may include merchants while omitting contract providers or may include any other combination of entities. It is also noted that various embodiments of fulfillment network may have more or fewer entities than those shown. Further in some embodiments there may be some degree of overlap among items available for fulfillment from various entities within the fulfillment network . For example while some items may be available exclusively from a particular fulfillment center contract fulfillment provider or merchant other items may be available from combinations of these or other entities.

To process orders within fulfillment networks an enterprise may provide an enterprise order management system . In the illustrated embodiment order management system may be configured to receive customer orders for various items . For example order management system may be configured to implement an electronic or web based interface through which a customer or a customer s agent may browse and select items for an order provide payment details and or complete other tasks relevant to the ordering process. Order management system may be configured to communicate with various entities within fulfillment network or via communication network . In various embodiments network may support internet based data communication e.g. using web based or web services based data transport protocols and or other types of communication such as dial up telephony facsimile etc. using standard or proprietary communication protocols. In response to placement of a customer order order management system may be configured to communicate fulfillment instructions to one or more entities within fulfillment network as described in greater detail below.

One embodiment of order management system is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment order management system includes a number of functional components that may be collectively configured to implement procedures for receiving customer orders and arranging for orders to be fulfilled. As shown order management system includes a customer interface module an item catalog database an inventory control database an authentication and payment processing system and an order assignment module .

In one embodiment customer interface module may be configured to present an interface through which enterprise customers may obtain information about and place orders for various items . For a web based enterprise one embodiment of customer interface module may be configured to implement a web site navigable by customers to search for and identify items of interest. For example customer interface module may be configured to implement customer navigable web pages corresponding to the various items available for ordering through the enterprise. Such web pages may include detailed item information that may be drawn from item catalog database . In some embodiments item catalog database may be configured to store item specific information such as identifying codes specifications dimensions images descriptive content such as text audio or video content and or other item specific information. In some embodiments item catalog database may also include item price information although in other embodiments price information may be stored and managed separately from other descriptive item information. It is contemplated that the type and amount of information stored and displayed may vary for different ones of items .

Inventory control database may be configured to track the current inventory state of various items within a fulfillment network . For example in some embodiments inventory control database may be configured to track the number of units of items stored by various fulfillment entities that are available for ordering committed to previous orders but not yet shipped en route from suppliers damaged or spoiled or any other suitable type of inventory state information. Inventory control database may also be configured to determine item availability information for various items from fulfillment entities within a network which may take into account factors such as the quantity of available inventory within network outstanding fulfillment operations in process within the fulfillment entities expected arrival of items en route from or to be ordered from suppliers and or other factors affecting item lead time or availability. In some embodiments inventory control database may provide availability information to customer interface module for display to customers. For example in response to a customer s browsing for information on a particular item customer interface module may retrieve item specific information from item catalog database as well as an estimated delivery lead time from inventory control database and may display this information to the customer within one or more web pages.

Customer interface module may also be configured to present an ordering or shopping interface through which a customer may select one or more particular items for an order specify order details such as delivery options and addresses provide payment information and or provide any other data required by the enterprise to process an order. For example in some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to provide a virtual web based shopping cart into which customers may place items while browsing through item catalog information. When a customer wishes to complete the ordering process customer interface module may present the customer with one or more web pages including fillable forms or other suitable input gathering features to collect payment information and other order details. In the illustrated embodiment customer interface module may be configured to communicate with authentication and payment processing system which in some embodiments may establish the authenticity of the customer s identity e.g. by checking account credentials such as a password and process supplied payment information e.g. by processing a credit card conducting an electronic funds transfer establishing credit terms for future payment etc. . In some embodiments customer interface module may support a streamlined ordering interface through which a customer may establish payment shipping and or other required details in advance and may complete the ordering process for an item simply by selecting it e.g. by clicking an appropriate button on a web page or by placing the item in a virtual shopping cart . In such embodiments customer interface module may attempt to complete the order using the customer s existing information rather than soliciting such information via a checkout process.

Once sufficient information has been received from a customer to process an order e.g. as defined by the enterprise customer interface module may be configured to convey the order to order assignment module . As described in greater detail below order assignment module may be configured to assign the item s specified within an order to one or more entities within fulfillment network for fulfillment.

As described above in some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to support web based customer interactions and may be implemented using any suitable techniques for deploying web based content and applications. For example customer interface module may be implemented using Hypertext Markup Language HTML Common Gateway Interface CGI Javascript PHP Peri C C or any suitable combination of these or other commercial open source and or proprietary languages frameworks or development environments for generating and distributing web based information. As described in greater detail below in some embodiments customer interface module may also support a web services interface through which various functional aspects of order management system may be exposed to third parties. Additionally it is noted that in other embodiments customer interface module may support types of customer interfaces other than web based interfacing. For example customer interface module may be configured to present a text and or graphical interface via dedicated terminals using protocols other than web based protocols. Alternatively customer interface module may support customer interaction via telephony e.g. using numerical prompts or voice recognition electronic mail or any other suitable type of communication technology including combinations of the aforementioned approaches.

In some embodiments customer interface module may support a web services interface through which various features of order management system may be accessed. Generally speaking providing a function or service as a web service may encompass providing any of a variety of standardized application programming interfaces APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate e.g. to request services and respond to such requests in an autonomous web based and typically platform independent manner. For example an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data e.g. catalog data inventory data customer data or other types of data and or certain enterprise functions e.g. fulfillment service request processing functions query functions electronic commerce functions generic data storage or computational functions etc. to external clients via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and or functions via the web services interface even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform e.g. a different operating system or system architecture than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions. For example using web services provided by an enterprise a third party may generate and deploy a customer browsing and ordering environment for the enterprise that differs substantially from the environment provided by the enterprise itself potentially providing a different feature set and thereby attracting a different customer base. In some embodiments various ones of merchants may use web services techniques to integrate their businesses with various features that may be provided by the enterprise such as payment processing services inventory catalog data etc.

In some embodiments provisioning a web service may encompass the use of particular protocols which may be executable to publish available web services to potential users to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform independent manner. Specifically in one embodiment a provider of a web service may register the service using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration UDDI protocol which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web service provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well formed web services request from a user should be formatted e.g. what specific parameters are required or allowed the data type or format to be used for a given parameter etc. . For example such interface details may be published e.g. within a UDDI directory entry using a version of the Web Services Description Language WSDL .

In many embodiments web services request and response data is exchanged between a client and the service provider through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform independent structured data such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . For example in one embodiment a web services request to provide inventory health information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest the type of data requested e.g. inventory health data and possibly other fields in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from the web service provider may include an XML document containing the requested data. In some embodiments web services related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web based data transfer protocol such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example.

Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example in different versions of a free form XML document specifying a web services request the actual web service that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently in some embodiments the XML documents containing web services request response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework e.g. a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example in one embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an envelope e.g. which may include a specification of the document type the intended recipient web service etc. as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data e.g. the particular details of the web services request . However in some embodiments web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.

Additionally in some embodiments a web services system may be implemented without using document based techniques such as SOAP type protocols. For example as an alternative to a document based approach a web service may be implemented using a Representational State Transfer REST type architecture. Generally speaking in REST type architectures web services requests may be formed as commands conveyed via a transport protocol such as PUT or GET commands conveyed via a version of the HTTP protocol. Those parameters of the request that might be embedded within a document in a document based web services architecture may instead be included as command parameters in a REST type architecture. Other suitable configurations of web services architectures are possible and contemplated.

In various embodiments each of the different components of order management system may be implemented in software hardware or a suitable combination thereof in an integrated fashion e.g. on a single computer system or in a distributed fashion e.g. via a number of discrete systems configured to communicate with one another via a network . It is noted that in some embodiments the functionality of order management system may be partitioned into components in a different fashion than that illustrated in . Also in some embodiments order management system may include additional functionality not described here or may omit or consolidate various illustrated components.

In some embodiments an enterprise may elect to partially or completely hide the details of its fulfillment network from customers. For example while interacting with the enterprise via order management system in such an embodiment customers may be given limited or no information regarding the various fulfillment entities from which their ordered items may be delivered. Rather from the perspective of customers the enterprise may appear to be a single virtual fulfillment center possibly having varying lead times for different items . Alternatively an enterprise may present certain items as being available to be fulfilled by merchants and may distinguish transactions involving such items from other items for which the enterprise acts as the merchant of record. However in such an embodiment the enterprise may provide limited customer visibility into the details of item availability within its own fulfillment centers or the facilities of its contract fulfillment providers .

Providing few details to customers regarding how items may be fulfilled may simplify the customer ordering experience in some instances. For example a prospective customer shopping for a given item may simply be informed whether or not the given item is available e.g. is ready or expected to be ready for fulfillment from some entity within fulfillment network possibly with an estimate as to the lead time that may be expected for the given item . The customer may then decide whether or not to order the given item .

However by limiting customer visibility into details of its fulfillment network under certain circumstances an enterprise may encounter logistical challenges and increased order fulfillment costs. For example a particular customer may place an order for a number of different items . However all of the ordered items may not be available from a single entity within fulfillment network within a timeframe for processing the particular customer s order such as a promised delivery date. For example some of the items may be present within one fulfillment center while the remainder are located in one or more different fulfillment centers . While it may be possible to reorder or reallocate inventory such that all items of the particular customer s order are located within a single entity within fulfillment network it may not be feasible to do so within a timeframe that is acceptable to the customer. Consequently the enterprise may not be able to avoid splitting fulfillment of the particular customer s order across two or more entities within fulfillment network . Such splitting may increase fulfillment costs substantially. For example the labor materials service related and other costs for picking packaging and shipping an order from two or more fulfillment centers or other entities may be considerably greater than if the entire order had been fulfilled by a single fulfillment entity.

As orders are placed by customers they may be assigned or mapped to entities within fulfillment center for fulfillment for example by order assignment module within order management system . The costs of split orders may create a strong incentive for attempting to assign as many complete orders as possible to single entities within fulfillment network . Such a goal may increase the complexity of the assignment algorithm employed by order management system . For example to assign orders for fulfillment order management system may take into account both fulfillment cost and fulfillment capacity considering factors such as the current availability of inventory within entities of fulfillment network the ability or capacity of entities to timely process orders e.g. as indicated by a backlog or forecast of fulfillment activity the expected shipping costs and shipping times from various entities to a particular customer and or other relevant order assignment criteria. Order management system may then attempt to assign orders for fulfillment such that on average the costs associated with fulfillment are minimized while orders are fulfilled in a timely fashion. Accounting for the possibility of split orders may increase the size of the order assignment decision space since there may be a number of possible ways in which an order may be split. Numerous such combinations may need to be considered in order to reduce costs associated with a given split order.

The prospect of split orders may be influenced by the manner in which inventory is allocated among entities within fulfillment network . For example to the extent that numerous entities within fulfillment network each have comprehensive selections of the items that form the total available catalog of an enterprise split likelihood may be reduced since it may be probabilistically likely that at least one entity within fulfillment network will have in stock each item that may be specified in any given customer order. However it may be costly to replicate a comprehensive selection of items throughout fulfillment network . For example regional variations in demand for certain items may suggest that item selection in a given fulfillment center or other entity located in a given region should be tuned to the expected ordering demands of that region. Given finite inventory storage capacity within a fulfillment entity tuning its inventory selection for local demand may compete with providing a comprehensive selection to reduce the risk of split orders. Failure to correctly predict customer demand and to store inventory accordingly may result in an inability to timely satisfy regional demand e.g. if popular items are displaced in favor of providing coverage against splits or the occurrence of split orders with their associated increased costs. Thus inventory management to reduce split orders may create challenges both in the way inventory items are allocated and stored across fulfillment network and in the complexity of order management algorithms for dynamically assigning orders for fulfillment as described above.

An enterprise may offer items to be ordered by customers the majority or entirety of which often may be fulfilled by its own fulfillment centers . However in a typical system in which customer visibility into the detailed status of fulfillment network is limited as described above the enterprise may simply indicate to a customer that a given item is generally available without indicating the particular fulfillment centers from which the given item is in fact available. Further the enterprise may present an item price to the customer that does not reflect the differences in costs that may exist to fulfill given item from different fulfillment centers . For example the enterprise may present a fixed shipping charge for given item irrespective of the actual costs to ship given item from various fulfillment centers which may vary according to geography and other factors.

In contrast to this approach the costs and complexities associating with splitting orders among different entities within fulfillment network may be reduced in some embodiments by making fulfillment options and their associated costs transparent to customers and by allowing customers at least some degree of control as to how their orders will be assigned within fulfillment network for fulfillment. One embodiment of a general method of transparently providing fulfillment costs to customers is illustrated in . In some embodiments the illustrated method may be implemented within order management system or by another system configured to communicate with order management system via hardware software or a combination thereof. For example the illustrated method may be implemented entirely or in part by customer interface module described above or by other components of order management system .

Operation of the method begins in block where the selection of a given one of inventory items by a customer is detected. For example customer interface module may be configured to detect the selection of a given inventory item when the given item is placed in a virtual shopping cart in response to the customer s interaction with a web page displaying the given item e.g. navigating a link pressing a button or any other suitable type of customer interaction . In some embodiments detecting the selection of a given item may include detecting any sort of customer interaction attributable to the given item . For example a customer selection may be detected when in response to a user navigating a link entering search criteria into a search function or performing any other type of selection activity the customer is presented with information pertaining to given item such as a product information page. That is selection of given item may be detected in response to detection of any event evidencing interest in given item on the part of a customer regardless of whether such an event includes placing the given item in a shopping cart or otherwise evidencing intent to purchase the given item .

In response to detecting the selection of a given item a display of a number of fulfillment options for the given item may be generated for the customer block . In one embodiment each fulfillment option within the display may include an indication of a corresponding fulfillment entity within a fulfillment network and an indication of a corresponding price for fulfillment by that fulfillment entity. In some embodiments each displayed fulfillment option may include additional information such as an expected lead time for the given item from the corresponding fulfillment entity. In one embodiment the displayed price may be determined dependent upon a total cost of completing order fulfillment of the given item for the customer from the corresponding fulfillment entity including fulfillment costs specific to the corresponding fulfillment entity. For example fulfillment costs such as shipping costs may vary based on the distance from a given fulfillment entity to the customer and displayed costs may reflect this variation.

Generally speaking fulfillment costs may include any costs that may be specifically attributable to the fulfillment of a particular item from a fulfillment entity. For example fulfillment costs may include accrued prorated or amortized costs of storing item within a fulfillment center such as a share of the operating costs of the fulfillment center determined according to the area volume weight or other defining characteristic of the particular item . If an item requires special handling or storage conditions such as e.g. climate or environmental control in some embodiments the incremental costs of such storage conditions may be imputed to item as part of its fulfillment costs. Fulfillment costs may also include labor costs associated with storing picking and packaging an item materials costs associated with preparing an item for delivery to a customer e.g. packing materials shipping containers labels printed manifests or receipts etc. and or service related costs associated with conveying an item to a customer such as costs for shipping services provided by an in house or third party shipper. While fulfillment costs may include any of these or other costs attributable to fulfillment of items in some embodiments an enterprise may elect not to include certain types of fulfillment costs in the pricing presented to a customer. It is contemplated that in some embodiments an enterprise may determine fulfillment costs for an item based on a cost schedule defined in terms of item characteristics such as its physical dimensions qualitative characteristics such as fragility or perishability the item s classification within a product categorization scheme e.g. books media electronics appliances etc. or any other suitable types of item characteristics or combinations thereof.

One embodiment of a display of fulfillment options that may be generated for a customer is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment display may correspond to at least a portion of a web page as may be generated e.g. by customer interface module conveyed to a customer s computer or other display device e.g. via the Internet and rendered by a web browser e.g. a version of Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or another suitable browser application or any other type of application suitable for displaying web based content. The browser or other application may be configured to execute on a computer or display device associated with the customer. Within display three different fulfillment options are shown for a given item denoted Item A within display . Each option includes a corresponding price an indication of a corresponding fulfillment entity and an indication of an expected shipping timeframe from the fulfillment entity as well as a navigable link through which the customer may select a particular one of the options.

For example as shown Item A is available for a total price of 5.99 from fulfiller Enterprise FC San Francisco with expected shipping within 24 hours for a total price of 6.50 from fulfiller Enterprise FC Chicago with expected shipping within 3 4 days and for a total price of 7.75 from fulfiller Enterprise FC Boston with expected shipping within 1 2 days. It is noted that in various embodiments more or fewer fulfillment options may be generated for display to the customer and the options may include information fields other than those shown. It is also noted that while the illustrated embodiment displays only options corresponding to enterprise fulfillment centers within a fulfillment network in other embodiments options corresponding to any entity within a fulfillment network may be shown.

In some embodiments the displayed price for a given fulfillment option may be broken down into an item price portion and a fulfillment cost portion. illustrates one embodiment of such a display. It is noted that while the item price is shown as being consistent across the different fulfillment entities in other embodiments both the item price and fulfillment cost may vary for different entities.

In one embodiment customer interface module may be configured to generate displays of fulfillment options for a given item selected by a customer. For example customer interface module may be configured to query other components of order management system such as item catalog database and or inventory control database in order to obtain information about item pricing and availability from various entities within fulfillment network . In some embodiments fulfillment costs for a given item may be statically computed and stored prior to detection of a customer s selection of the given item . For example inventory control database may include a record of fulfillment costs for the given item for each fulfillment center or other entity from which the given item is available. In some embodiments for each entity the stored record may further specify fulfillment costs broken down by a customer specific variable such as by destination geographic regions.

As an alternative to static determination of fulfillment costs in some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to dynamically compute fulfillment costs of various fulfillment options in response to detecting customer selection of a given item . For example customer interface module may be configured to query inventory control database to determine availability of the given item from various fulfillment entities and may compute a cost function for each of the fulfillment options to be displayed. In some embodiments the cost function may take into account customer invariant costs that are specific to a particular fulfillment entity as well as customer variable costs such as the customer s geographic location and any preferences the customer may have established as described in greater detail below.

As illustrated in in some embodiments display may be configured to show multiple fulfillment options corresponding to a single given item . For example display may be configured to be presented to a customer in response to the customer selecting the given item for placement in a virtual shopping cart or for completion of an expedited ordering process or as part of a display of other information about the given item e.g. as part of a product web page displaying various types of catalog information . However it is contemplated that display need not be restricted to displaying fulfillment options for only a single item . In some embodiments display may show multiple different items e.g. those items that satisfy a customer s keyword search or query those items that fall within a particular product category selectable by the customer or any other suitable grouping of items for display and may show multiple different fulfillment options for some or all of the multiple displayed items .

It is further contemplated that the amount of detail shown with respect to displayed fulfillment options may vary dependent upon the context in which the options are displayed. For example in contexts where multiple items appear within display less detail regarding fulfillment options may be shown such as by omitting or abbreviating certain fields of options . Conversely when a single item is displayed or in some embodiments when fewer than a threshold number of items are displayed more detail regarding fulfillment options may be shown.

Returning to subsequent to generating the display of fulfillment options for the given item an order placed by the customer that specifies the given item and a particular one of the displayed fulfillment options may be detected block . For example the customer may submit an order by proceeding through a checkout process as described above with respect to . In some embodiments where customer interface module is configured to present a streamlined checkout procedure to a customer based on existing customer details e.g. payment and shipping details already on file detection of an order may include detection of the customer s selection of a particular displayed fulfillment option. In other embodiments it is contemplated that specification of the particular fulfillment option may be dependent upon the customer s defined ordering preferences or defaults as described below rather than on an active selection by the customer in response to the generated display of fulfillment options.

Fulfillment instructions for the given item may then be conveyed to the fulfillment entity corresponding to the particular fulfillment option block . For example order assignment module may be configured to receive an order from customer interface module to parse the various items included within the order and to generate fulfillment instructions and convey them to corresponding entities within fulfillment network for fulfillment of the ordered items . It is noted that in some embodiments where fulfillment options for ordered items are specified directly or indirectly by a customer the implementation of order assignment module may be considerably simplified. For example rather than performing a complex optimization to minimize fulfillment costs and avoid splitting of orders customer transparent fulfillment options may allow order assignment module to simply route fulfillment instructions according to customers specifications. Additionally by making fulfillment costs transparent to customers the costs of split orders that are directly borne by the enterprise may be reduced or eliminated. For example if for a given order a customer selects two items that are not within the same fulfillment center the fulfillment options presented to the customer according to the method of may reflect the costs to the enterprise of fulfilling the items separately.

In some embodiments as a customer selects additional items for a given order customer interface module may be configured to allow the customer to revise selected fulfillment options for previously selected items in view of the order as a whole. For example a customer may select a first item and select a corresponding fulfillment option specifying a first fulfillment center having the shortest shipping lead time. The customer may then select a second item that is not available from a second fulfillment center but not the first fulfillment center . In one embodiment customer interface module may be configured to take the previous state of the customer s shopping into account when evaluating fulfillment options for the second item . If the first item is available from the second fulfillment center the customer may be notified that selecting the second fulfillment center as the fulfillment option for both items may reduce the total fulfillment cost for the order possibly though not necessarily at the expense of a longer shipping lead time for the first item . If the customer chooses not to consolidate fulfillment of the items he or she may incur additional fulfillment costs associated with the items being fulfilled separately. That is the customer may be given the option whether to incur split costs or not.

As just described in some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to allow a customer to select a particular fulfillment option subsequent to selecting a first item and then allow the customer to subsequently revise the selected fulfillment option for the first item in view of the options available for a second or subsequently selected item . That is customer interface module may allow for a customer to sequentially select fulfillment options as items are selected prior to the selection of other items .

However alternative embodiments are possible and contemplated. In one embodiment customer interface module may be configured to allow a customer to select multiple items for an order. Subsequently customer interface module may allow the customer to select fulfillment options for the various multiple items in view of the order as a whole. In some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to group the multiple selected items within display according to aspects of their corresponding fulfillment options . Such groupings may be made in view of customer preferences or defaults. For example the items selected by a customer for a particular order may be displayed in groups that minimize the total cost of fulfillment of the items that minimize the lead time or delivery time for the greatest number of items or that accomplish some other goal specified by the customer. A customer may accept the suggested groupings displayed by customer interface module or may make changes. For example the customer may prefer to receive a particular item sooner rather than minimize fulfillment costs by waiting for the particular item to be shipped with another item and may correspondingly override a suggested grouping of the particular item with the other item . In some embodiments customer interface module may be configured to present multiple different grouping options to a customer for selection such as one grouping that minimizes total fulfillment costs and another that minimizes delivery time.

One example of an embodiment of display configured to display alternative groupings of items for order fulfillment is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment display reflects that a customer has selected two items denoted A and B for an order. As mentioned previously display may be presented to the customer at any suitable point during the customer s shopping experience. For example display may be presented once a customer has indicated that all desired items have been selected and the order process is to be completed e.g. via a checkout process . Alternatively display may be presented in response to detecting that a customer has selected multiple items but possibly before completion of the ordering process.

In the illustrated embodiment display reflects two possible groupings of items A and B. In the first grouping both items are available from the same fulfillment center with the same lead time. In the second grouping the items are available from different fulfillment centers and one of the items is expected to ship sooner than the other. As shown the total cost for the order according to the second grouping reflect the increased costs of fulfillment associated with fulfilling the order from two different sources relative to the first grouping in which both items may be fulfilled together. If the customer wishes to receive item A sooner than item B he or she may select the second grouping for order fulfillment at a higher overall cost. Alternatively the customer may save money by selecting the first grouping and accepting a slightly longer delay in receiving the items. In the illustrated embodiment an additional option is provided for the user to specify groupings other than those illustrated. When selected display may show additional possible groupings or may display various fulfillment options for individual items such as in the manner of .

It is noted that numerous variations on the configuration and content of display are possible and contemplated. For example display may be configured to explicitly break out fulfillment costs separately from item costs such as shown in . In some embodiments display may explicitly show the difference in total costs between different groupings. As noted previously the manner in which various groupings are shown with display may depend on preferences established by the customer. For example a customer may specify a preference for minimizing total order costs where possible. Correspondingly display may display the lowest cost grouping first to such a customer.

The manner in which fulfillment options are generated and or selected on behalf of a customer may in some embodiments be influenced by the customer s previously determined preferences or default settings. For example in one embodiment order management system may support the generation of persistent customer accounts or profiles. A given customer may establish such an account with a unique identifier e.g. an email address account name or number etc. and optionally a credential such as a password. When the given customer is identified during interactions with order management system e.g. by supplying the unique identifier and credential or through passive techniques such as web browser cookies the customer s preferences may be applied to fulfillment option generation and selection. Such preferences may include for example specifying a minimum or maximum number of fulfillment options to be generated and or limiting the generated options by one or more criteria. Example criteria may include ordering the options according to cost shipping lead time or limiting display of fulfillment options to situations where cost lead time or other aspects of the options differ by a certain amount such as a minimum percentage difference . Customer preferences may also specify default selections for situations where the customer omits making a particular fulfillment option selection e.g. in instances where the customer engages in a streamlined ordering or checkout procedure that bypasses the usual fulfillment option selection process . For example a customer may specify that in the absence of an overriding fulfillment option selection the lowest cost lowest lead time or other specified type of fulfillment option should be selected.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments customer selections of fulfillment options with respect to various items may be analyzed and taken into account in future inventory placement within fulfillment network . For example making fulfillment costs transparent to customers may effectively result in different fulfillment entities competing for customer selection. If a particular fulfillment center lacks a particular item at the time a customer places an order but could fulfill the particular item more cheaply than the fulfillment entity that was ultimately selected units of the particular item may be stocked at the particular fulfillment center in anticipation of future customer orders. Similarly if customers are willing to pay a premium in fulfillment costs for split orders of some combinations of items those combinations may be examined to determine whether they should be stocked together within one or more entities of fulfillment network in order to take advantages of efficiencies of inventory collocation. Such efficiencies may result in fulfillment cost reductions that may be passed along to customers retained as profit or a combination of the two. More generally exposing fulfillment costs as transparent costs to customers may facilitate market based inventory management decisions. That is such an approach may enable an enterprise to determine the efficacy of its inventory placement strategies on the basis of customer feedback in the form of fulfillment option decisions including instances where customers may change the composition of their orders based on fulfillment options e.g. by removing selected items from an order if fulfillment options for those items are deemed unacceptable .

Presenting transparent fulfillment costs to customers may also simplify the manner in which an enterprise may deploy value added fulfillment services within fulfillment network . For example an enterprise may wish to provide special services such as gift wrapping binding services for books or publications pre assembly of certain types of merchandise print on demand publishing services for certain types of printed matter or other types of services selectable by customers for an additional fee when ordering items . The enterprise may face a choice either deploy a special service within only one or a few entities within a fulfillment network or deploy the service widely within the fulfillment network . In a situation where an enterprise does not present transparent fulfillment costs to customers either option may present a cost management problem if the enterprise deploys the service in only one fulfillment center for example it may incur substantial fulfillment costs to ship an item ordered with the service to a distant customer. In the alternative replicating the service in multiple fulfillment centers may reduce the average distance and shipping costs to customers but potentially at considerable capital and operational expense to provide the service from different locations. Such an investment may be particularly risky where there is uncertainty as to the degree customers will adopt a new service.

By contrast presenting the fulfillment costs for value added services as transparent costs to customers may mitigate the risk in deploying such services. Customers may determine whether the value of a service is worthwhile given the cost of receiving the service from a particular entity within fulfillment network and the enterprise may experiment with service pricing in view of fulfillment costs to balance profitability with customer demand. In a transparent cost environment customers may drive the degree to which services are replicated within fulfillment network . For example if a service proves to be popular the enterprise may choose to increase its availability within fulfillment network and may choose to pass along fulfillment cost savings to customers retain such savings as profit or a combination of these.

Presenting transparent fulfillment costs to customers may also simplify the degree to which an enterprise manages utilization of fulfillment services or value added services within fulfillment network . For example if a particular fulfillment center is especially busy or a particular service e.g. gift wrapping is highly utilized at a particular time order management system may be configured to dynamically increase the fulfillment costs presented to customers for fulfilling items from the particular fulfillment center or using the particular service in order to balance demand with capacity. Conversely during times of lower utilization of a particular fulfillment entity or service the associated fulfillment costs may be decreased in order to increase demand. In some embodiments certain fulfillment entities or services may be entirely disabled from being selected by customers for example to take such entities or services offline for maintenance or to control utilization.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods techniques or components described above may be implemented as instructions and data capable of being stored by a tangible computer accessible storage medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the method of generating a display of fulfillment options for presentation to a customer shown in and described in detail above as well as suitable variations thereof and any of the various components of order management system described above. Such instructions may be executed to perform a particular computational function such as performing inter process communication implementing mathematical functions for inventory data analysis optimization etc. as well as higher order functions such as operating system functionality network communications functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions. It is noted that for any method described above where no specific ordering of operations of a method is described or required the various operations of the method may be performed in any suitable order by instructions that may be executed in any suitable order.

One embodiment of a computer system includes or is configured to access one or more tangible computer accessible storage media is illustrated in . Such a system may also be referred to as a node. In one embodiment the functionality of any of the various components of order management system described above may be distributed across a number of nodes such that a given component may be implemented by one or more nodes or partitioned across several nodes. While in some embodiments a node may exclusively implement the functions of a single order management system component in other embodiments a node may implement the functionality of all or portions of several different system components. In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but need not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment instructions and data implementing desired functions methods or techniques such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code . It is noted that in some embodiments code may include instructions and data implementing desired functions that are not directly executable by processor but are represented or encoded in an abstract form that is translatable to instructions that are directly executable by processor . For example code may include instructions specified in an ISA that may be emulated by processor or by other code executable on processor . Alternatively code may include instructions procedures or statements implemented in an abstract programming language that may be compiled or interpreted in the course of execution. As non limiting examples code may include code specified in a procedural or object oriented programming language such as C or C a scripting language such as perl a markup language such as HTML or XML or any other suitable language.

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to network such as other computer systems for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and the various communication devices described above. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet network for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a tangible computer accessible storage medium configured to store instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible storage media. Generally speaking a computer accessible storage medium may include memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. A computer accessible medium may generally be accessible via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

