---

title: Elastomeric damage-control barrier
abstract: A typical inventive embodiment describes a tubular shape and comprises a rigid outer layer, an elastomeric middle layer and a rigid inner layer. The elastomeric material is a strain-rate-sensitive polymer (e.g., polyurethane or polyurea) having a Young's modulus of approximately 700-1000 psi at 100% strain, and strong strain-rate-sensitivity in approximately the 10/second-10/second range. By the time that the projectile reaches the rigid inner layer, a projectile that impacts the three-layer system (commencing at the rigid outer layer) is structurally and kinetically diminished in its destructiveness by the rigid outer layer together with the elastomeric middle layer. Furthermore, the elastomeric middle layer becomes more rigid during a brief period in which it absorbs energy from the projectile, then again becomes elastic in a manner formative of a membrane covering the rigid inner layer. The elastomeric membrane tempers leakage if rupturing of the rigid inner layer has occurred.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07794808&OS=07794808&RS=07794808
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07794808
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060522
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 564 584 filed 23 Apr. 2004 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. nonprovisional application no. 10 864 317 filed 10 Jun. 2004 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt now U.S. Pat. No. 7 300 893 B2 issue date 27 Nov. 2007 which claims the benefit of the aforesaid U.S. provisional application No. 60 564 584 filed 23 Apr. 2004 entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt.

This application claims the benefit of PCT application international application published under the Patent Cooperation Treaty WO 2005 103363 filed 3 Nov. 2005 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt which claims the benefit of the aforesaid U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 10 864 317 filed 10 Jun. 2004 entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt and which claims the benefit of the aforesaid U.S. provisional application No. 60 564 584 filed 23 Apr. 2004 entitled Armor Including a Strain Rate Hardening Elastomer joint inventors Roshdy George S. Barsoum and Philip Dudt.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to protective coverings such as armor that may be used for people and objects more particularly to methods and devices for protecting entities from damage or injury caused by explosive or ballistic events.

Surface ships submarines small boats buoys tanks oil rigs pipelines and nuclear storage are examples of water borne and fluid containing objects that are vulnerable to leakage inward or outward that may be caused by explosive or ballistic attack. For instance an explosive or ballistic event can puncture or otherwise rupture a marine vessel in at least one location resulting in the rapid ingress of water and the concomitant sinking of the marine vessel thus posing a great risk to the occupants of the marine vessel. A liquid container or gas container made of any structural material that is leaking due to an explosive or ballistic event can represent a chemical leak hazard or a fire hazard e.g. when the container is a tank containing gasoline .

It is therefore desirable to protect water borne and fluid containing objects from harm caused by explosions and projectiles. More specifically the protection of such objects is sought so as to mitigate structural damage such as manifested by one or more ruptures and the consequent ingress or egress of fluid material.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a methodology for reducing or minimizing the damage ensuing from an explosive and or ballistic event to a water borne or fluid containing object.

It is a further object of the present invention to reduce or minimize the fluid ingress or fluid egress that is associated with such ensuing damage.

The present invention provides diverse embodiments of a multilayered plural layered combination of materials comprising at least one highly strain rate sensitive synonymously referred to herein as strongly strain rate sensitive or highly rate sensitive or strongly rate sensitive elastomeric material and at least one rigid relatively more rigid material. The rigid material which is more rigid than the elastomeric material can be any suitable structural material including but not limited to a metal wherein the term metal is broadly defined herein as any metallic material e.g. an elemental metal or a metal alloy a composite e.g. a fiber reinforced matrix composite or a ceramic. The present invention s elastomer is typically a polymer such as a polyurethane or a polyurea and is typically characterized by a Young s modulus in the range of approximately 700 psi to approximately 1000 psi at 100 strain and high strong strain rate sensitivity for strain rates in the range of approximately 10 second to approximately 10 second. Depending on the inventive embodiment the inventive highly strain rate sensitive elastomer may also be characterized by high strain rate sensitivity outside of this 10 sec 10 sec range of strain rates. The term range is intended herein to be inclusive i.e. to include the delimiting e.g. upper and lower values of the range. The present invention s strain rate sensitive elastomer has the ability to practically immediately react to impact so as to rigidify while absorbing impact related energy and to then practically immediately return to its elastic non rigid condition. As variously practiced for instance an inventive laminar configuration resists ballistic penetration in air or resists rupture in a fluid medium or averts or limits flooding following explosive damage to pipelines and ships.

The present invention s high strain rate highly rate sensitive polymers exhibit greatly increased transient mechanical property changes under rapid loading such as when exposed to explosively generated forces and exhibit high elongations during and after load removal. A typical highly rate sensitive polymer used in inventive practice is a substance from the polyurea family or the polyurethane family or is a mixture of substances from the polyurea and polyurethane families. Among its benefits during a dynamic event a highly rate sensitive polymer s propensity toward transient high rate dynamic mechanical strength elevations enables it to share loads with the metal substrate to which it is bonded thereby improving resistance to rupture. When some inventive embodiments are practiced under certain conditions a highly rate sensitive polymer is capable not only of affording improved structural e.g. ballistic performance in terms of precluding or limiting rupturing but also of acting as a membrane to avoid flooding or to control the rate thereof in the event that there is at least one rupture.

In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention a laminar composite structure comprises three adjacent layers viz. i a structural first layer ii a strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer and iii a structural third layer. The strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer is situated between the structural first layer and the structural third layer. The strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer is characterized by a Young s modulus in the range of approximately 700 1000 psi at 100 strain and a strain rate sensitivity hardening in the range of approximately 10 second 10 second. The strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer at least substantially consists of a polymer such as polyurethane and polyurea. The structural first layer and the structural third layer each at least substantially consist of a material such as metal fiber reinforced matrix composite and ceramic.

The laminar composite structure is characterized by resistance with respect to impact by a projectile that penetrates the structural first layer wherein the projectile is mitigated upon traversing the structural first layer and the strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer and wherein the structural third layer is deformed but remains at least substantially intact upon impact by the projectile. The mitigation of the projectile includes blunting and or breakage and or slowing of the projectile. The deformation of the structural third layer includes denting and or breakage of the structural third layer.

According to some inventive embodiments the inventive laminar composite structure further comprises a fluid contained by the structural third layer which has a tubular or other shape suitable for containment of fluid. The strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer stiffens upon being traversed by the projectile. Moreover the strain rate sensitive elastomeric second layer subsequently stretches so as to form a membrane that at least substantially covers the deformation deformed portion of the structural third layer. If the deformation of the structural third layer includes breakage then the membrane reduces leakage of the fluid from the laminar composite structure.

The terms tube tubular and pipe are synonymously used herein to broadly denote any elongate hollow body without any limitation in terms of geometry of the elongate hollow body. Hence a tube or pipe can describe any shape. A tube or pipe can be cylindrical or non cylindrical rectilinear or curvilinear or curved its cross sectional profile can be regular or irregular uniform or non uniform along its length. A tube or pipe is usually implemented to contain conduct or convey a fluid e.g. a liquid a gas or a solid particulate but is not necessarily so implemented according to this definition.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to through a conventional pipe having a cylindrical metal pipe wall is covered with a cylindrical protective barrier in accordance with the present invention. Protective barrier includes an elastomeric layer and a cylindrical metal sleeve the elastomeric layer being situated intermediate the pipe wall and the sleeve . Elastomeric layer is composed of a polymer e.g. polyurea or polyurethane characterized by high strain rate sensitivity strong strain rate sensitivity . The present invention s combination which includes the pipe and the present invention s protective barrier thus represents a laminar material system that includes three adjacent layers. In this multilayer system a highly rate sensitive elastomeric layer is sandwiched between two rigid i.e. more rigid than the elastomer of layer layers viz. pipe wall and sleeve .

Still referring to through and also referring to inventive combination represents a structure that affords effective resistance to penetration by kinetic rounds. This resistance to penetration such as associated with ballistic attack is important in protecting pipelines and a variety of other objects in which rupture can occur because of projectiles such as bullets or bomb fragments. The term projectile as used herein broadly refers to any body in motion that has been projected or impelled by force typically continuing in motion by its own inertia and typically a form of weaponry including but not limited to bullet missile or bomb fragment. The structure shown in corresponds to the portion of inventive three layer material system that is in the path of bullet as shown in .

As illustrated in metal sleeve represents the strike face. A ballistic penetrator such as bullet enters the metal sleeve at location and continues on bullet s trajectory t. Bullet thereby produces a hole along trajectory t in the outer layer viz. metal sleeve and middle layer viz. elastomer of the inventive three layer system . The metal sleeve acts in combination with the elastomeric layer to blunt and or fracture the bullet through transient mechanical strength interactions. The elastomeric layer also acts to slow down reduce the speed of bullet by erosion and by absorption of heat energy. The portion of hole that is contained in elastomeric layer tends to melt back together in a narrowing manner. In a sense the hole portion in elastomeric layer heals up so that elastomeric layer layer reforms into a protective membrane effectively constituting a seal against leakage. The blunted broken bullet then strikes the wall of pipe .

As a result of being impacted by blunted broken bullet it may be the case that pipe wall is deformed such as manifested by a dent but not ruptured e.g. broken torn or penetrated by blunted broken bullet . As portrayed in since blunted broken bullet has lost velocity and shape as compared with its former condition as bullet it may be that blunted broken bullet can only form a dent in pipe wall . In such case the interaction between bullet and sequentially the sleeve and the elastomer causes bullet to fragment and blunt thereby forming bullet and decelerate the pipe wall is only dented rather than being penetrated by bullet .

On the other hand pipe wall may be ruptured e.g. compromised in such a way that one or more openings large enough to permit leakage therethrough are created at one or more locations therein. If pipe wall is ruptured such as depicted by rupture in the elastomeric layer will expand and seal or partially seal thus limiting any leakage in or out. If pipe is a conduit for a liquid or gaseous fluid leakage out of pipe thus being of greater concern the polymeric seal represented by elastomeric layer would tend to limit this leakage.

With reference to and cylindrical metal pipe wall of pipe is covered with a cylindrical protective barrier that includes a highly rate sensitive elastomeric layer such as shown in through but does not include a cylindrical metal sleeve . The elastomeric layer can be applied to pipe wall using a conventional technique such as involving casting or spraying of an uncured polymeric substance. The present invention s combination which includes the pipe and protective barrier which includes elastomeric layer thus represents a laminar material system that includes two adjacent layers. In this two layer material system a highly rate sensitive elastomeric layer is placed on the outside surface of the innermost rigid i.e. more rigid than the elastomer of layer layer viz. pipe wall .

As illustrated in elastomeric layer affords a degree of protection while facing an explosive pulse which can be conceived in this illustration to be either an underwater detonation burst or a surface detonation burst. The behavior of the inventive combination would be similar whether submerged or non submerged. The inventive combination is characterized by a great elongation capacity after damaging loading has occurred. This elongation capacity is significantly greater than that which would characterize the pipe wall in the absence of the elastomeric layer . Upon occurrence of the external explosion elastomeric layer becomes a residual membrane covering over the underlying deformation area in pipe wall which includes denting and or fracturing and or rupturing such as represented by rupture in pipe wall . Thus subsequent to the external explosion the elastomer membrane itself remains intact or is only slightly ruptured e.g. torn . If pipe is submerged in water or other liquid the elastomer membrane either entirely prevents liquid from entering pipe or substantially prevents liquid from entering pipe e.g. permitting the liquid to enter pipe at a slow and manageable rate .

As illustrated in and internal explosion occurs within a liquid filled e.g. gasoline filled pipe which can be conceived to be either in or out of water. Relative to internal explosion elastomeric layer is situated on the opposite face of the pipe wall . When ruptures occur to the underlying wall of the pipe elastomeric layer provides a membrane over the damaged areas thereby reducing the potential for leakage out of the pipe . Thus subsequent to the internal explosion the elastomer membrane itself remains intact or is only slightly ruptured e.g. torn . If pipe contains liquid or gaseous fluid the elastomer membrane either entirely prevents the fluid from exiting pipe or substantially prevents the fluid from exiting pipe e.g. permitting fluid to exit pipe at a slow and manageable rate .

As usually practiced the present invention s protective barrier includes at least one elastomeric material layer such as that which is applied through molding casting spraying or bonding and at least one structural material layer made of a metal or composite or other non metal material . In the context of inventive practice the terms structural layer structural material layer rigid layer and stiff layer are used synonymously herein to refer to a layer that is characterized by a degree of rigidity or stiffness so as to be more rigid or stiff than an elastomeric layer. Generally speaking the structural character of a material e.g. in terms of its load bearing capability directly relates to its rigidity or stiffness hence an inventive structural layer is not only more rigid or stiff but is also more structural than is an inventive elastomeric layer. The present invention s structural material is typically a non elastomeric material but can be elastomeric e.g. a fiber reinforced elastomeric matrix composite material in some inventive embodiments. The present invention s highly strain rate sensitive elastomeric layer has the quality of reacting instantaneously to impact for instance at strain rates in the 10 sec 10 sec range so as to temporarily become significantly more rigid than it is in its normal non impacted state and of then returning to its normal elastic e.g. viscoelastic state shortly after absorbing energy associated with the impact.

The elastomeric material of which the present invention s elastomeric layer is composed is typically characterized by a Young s modulus in the range between approximately 700 psi and approximately 1000 psi at 100 strain. Moreover the present invention s elastomeric material is typically characterized by strong strain rate sensitivity in the strain rate range between approximately 1 000 second and approximately 1 000 000 second especially or more typically in the strain rate range between approximately 10 000 second and approximately 1 000 000 second. Some polyurethanes some polyureas and some other polymeric materials meet these criteria. Three commercially available polyureas meeting these criteria and some of their characteristics are set forth in . Plasite Protective Coatings Inc. of Maple Shade N.J. manufacturer of Semstone is now owned by Carboline Company of St. Louis Mo. a subsidiary of RPM of Medina Ohio. Air Products and Chemicals Inc. of Allentown Pa. manufactures Versalink P 1000 oligomeric diamine polytetramethyleneeoxide di p aminobenzoate . Polyshield HI E is manufactured by Specialty Products Inc. SPI of Lakewood Wash. These are but three examples among the many commercially available formulations polymeric and otherwise that may be strain rate sensitive elastomeric materials suitable for inventive practice.

Generally elastomers meeting the above said criteria Young s modulus in the range of approximately 700 1000 psi at 100 strain strain rate sensitivity hardening in the range of approximately 10 second 10 second will also have the following characteristics in low rate of loading conditions Young s modulus in the range between approximately 1200 psi and 1400 psi at 300 strain Young s modulus in the range between approximately 4000 psi and approximately 6000 psi at 400 strain elongation in the range between approximately 200 and approximately 800 typically more than approximately 400 tensile strength in the range between approximately 2000 psi and approximately 8000 psi Poison s ratio in the range between approximately 0.45 and approximately 0.49 as close to 0.5 as possible which represents incompressibility of the elastomer .

Because of its high rate sensitivity a typical elastomer used in inventive practice is characterized by a Young s modulus that increases at high rate loading e.g. rate loading in the range between approximately 5000 sec and approximately 6000 sec from approximately 400 psi to the range between approximately 20 000 psi and approximately 30 000 psi under unconfined conditions the range between approximately 500 000 psi and approximately 600 000 psi under confined conditions. The terms elastomer and elastomeric material as used herein broadly refer to any material having elastic e.g. viscoelastic physical character regardless of whether it includes at least one structural material e.g. a plasticizer or an antioxidant that is incorporated therein for at least one enhancement purpose.

The present invention can be practiced in multifarious laminar configurations in which the laminar configuration is inclusive of i one or practically any plural number of strain rate sensitive elastomeric layers and ii one or practically any plural number of structural stiff layers. For instance with reference to and a an inventive combination includes all that inventive combination includes i.e. structural pipe wall elastomeric layer and structural sleeve plus an additional elastomeric layer viz. elastomeric layer . This four layer material system thus includes a rigid innermost layer pipe wall an elastomeric second innermost layer elastomeric layer a rigid second outermost layer sleeve and an elastomeric outermost layer elastomeric layer . The cylindrical protective barrier shown in and thus includes in alternate arrangement an elastomeric layer a rigid layer and an elastomeric layer . The mechanism for protection from a projectile is similar to that for the inventive combination shown in through except that inventive combination provides an extra measure of protection that is elastomeric layer placed on the sleeve surface serves to further blunt and or fragment and or reduce the speed of a penetrator such as bullet shown in .

In the light of the instant disclosure the ordinarily skilled artisan will appreciate the various ways in which an inventive protective barrier can be applied to an existing structure such as a conventional pipe . For instance again with reference to through and also with reference to through there are various methods for associating the inventive protective barrier shown in through with a pipe or other object sought to be protected from ballistic or explosive impact. The end result of the distinguishable application methods shown in through is essentially the same viz. an inventive combination in which a rigid e.g. metal sleeve is disposed around a rigid e.g. metal pipe wall and in which strain rate sensitive elastomer disposed between sleeve and pipe wall .

According to the alternative approach illustrated in highly rate sensitive elastomer in an uncured state is sprayed or cast onto the outside surface of pipe wall and is then permitted to cure for a suitable period e.g. at least 24 hours. When the elastomeric material is completely cured thereby forming elastomeric layer the sleeve is placed around positioned so as to circumscribe but not too tightly the elastomeric layer which coats covers the outside surface of the pipe wall . The approach shown in is similar to that shown in except that the highly rate sensitive elastomer in an uncured state is sprayed or cast onto the inside surface of sleeve rather than onto the outside surface of pipe wall . The applied elastomer is permitted to cure upon the inside surface of sleeve for a suitable period e.g. at least 24 hours. When the elastomeric material is completely cured thereby forming elastomeric layer the combination article that includes the elastomer on the inside of the combination article and the sleeve on the outside of the combination article is placed around positioned so as to circumscribe but not too tightly the outside surface of the pipe wall .

More generally inventive practice can provide for the application of at least one elastomeric layer through molding casting spraying or bonding. Regardless of the inventive fabrication technique inventive practice usually prefers the contiguous arrangement of the three layers. In the example shown in through for instance the three cylindrical layers namely pipe wall elastomer and sleeve are contiguously and circumscriptively configured. The metal sleeve is the outermost layer of the inventive three layer material system . The metal sleeve is the innermost layer of the inventive three layer system . The elastomeric layer which overlies the metal pipe wall and underlies the metal sleeve is the intermediate layer of the inventive three layer system . Thus for instance if the inventive combination is made so as to dispose sleeve around a completely cured elastomeric layer with which pipe wall has been coated covered the elastomer should fit inside the sleeve so that the latter lightly hugs without exerting undue pressure upon the former.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

