---

title: Electro-catalytic oxidation device for removing carbon from a fuel reformate
abstract: An electro-catalytic oxidation device (ECOD) for the removal of contaminates, preferably carbonaceous materials, from an influent comprising an ECOD anode, an ECOD cathode, and an ECOD electrolyte. The ECOD anode is at a temperature whereby the contaminate collects on the surface of the ECOD anode as a buildup. The ECOD anode is electrically connected to the ECOD cathode, which consumes the buildup producing electricity and carbon dioxide. The ECOD anode is porous and chemically active to the electro-catalytic oxidation of the contaminate. The ECOD cathode is exposed to oxygen, and made of a material which promotes the electro-chemical reduction of oxygen to oxidized ions. The ECOD electrolyte is non-permeable to gas, electrically insulating and a conductor to oxidized. The ECOD anode is connected to the fuel reformer and the fuel cell. The ECOD electrolyte is between and in ionic contact with the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07666534&OS=07666534&RS=07666534
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Untied States Department of Energy
number: 07666534
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060919
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of Chicago.

The present invention relates to the removal of carbon from a gas stream. The present invention more preferably relates to the prevention of coke buildup within a fuel cell.

Fuel cells have proven to be an important technology in improving energy efficiency. Although a mature technology recent advancements have spurred fuel cell development for commercial applications. As the debate continues over the future energy supply there exists a strong interest in improving the efficiency of current fuel sources. The efficient use of current fuels such as gasoline diesel or methane through fuel cells can bring fuel cells into the forefront of helping ease the energy crisis.

Generally fuel cells cannot directly convert liquid hydrocarbon fuels into energy. Instead liquid fuels such as gasoline and diesel need to be first converted by a fuel reformer into hydrogen and carbon monoxide as the fuel gas for fuel cell. The resulting gas reformate is fed into the anode of a fuel cell and electrocatalytically converted into water carbon dioxide and electricity. Typical methods of reforming include partial oxidation reforming POX autothermal reforming ATR and steam reforming SR . Reforming hydrocarbon fuels containing polyaromatic hydrocarbons and sulfur containing polyaromatics such as those found in commercial diesel is a difficult process. Incomplete reforming causes coke buildup a solid carbonaceous residue within the fuel cell due to condensation of unconverted hydrocarbons leaking from the reformer. Coke buildup blocks the reformate from reaching to the anode of the fuel cell hindering fuel cell performance. See 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 pg 8 11 2004 herein fully incorporated by reference. Coke buildup is the result of sulfur content in the fuel the use of a heavy aromatic fuel or a combination thereof.

Coke buildup is a major problem with solid oxide fuel cells SOFC which operate at temperatures especially susceptible to coke buildup. Generally coke buildup forms downstream from the fuel reformer at the entrance of the SOFC where the temperature is usually lower than that of the fuel reformer.

As an example in a fuel cell system utilizing diesel fuel it is common to use an autothermal reformer and a SOFC. The fuel reformer typically operates in excess of about 600 C. preferably 700 800 C. to process the diesel into a hydrogen rich reformate. Unconverted and fragmented hydrocarbons are generated in the reformer as a byproduct of processing the diesel as diesel has both high heavy aromatics and sulfur content. When carbon in the reformate reaches the anode of the fuel cell it cools within the window of carbon condensation generally in the range about 400 C. to 650 C. and condenses onto the fuel cell inlet or on the surface of anode creating a coke buildup. The coke buildup blocks the reformate from reaching the electrocatalyst inside of the fuel cell and stops the electrochemical reaction for generating electricity. As more coke buildup occurs the fuel cell becomes less efficient at generating electricity.

One method of reducing coke buildup is to increase the operating temperature of the fuel cell as well as heating any channels between the fuel reformer and the fuel cell. Increasing the temperature of the channels and the fuel cell greatly reduces the energy efficiency of the fuel cell system due to the continuous heating required to maintain the operating temperatures close to 1000 C. Furthermore as the result of reformate distribution and uneven reaction rate the fuel cell itself does not normally heat uniformly causing cooler spots on which coke condenses. These cooler spots with cumulated coke buildup lead to the reduction of the catalytic capacity of the fuel cell until the fuel cell is cleaned.

Another method of removing coke buildup is to disassemble the area of the fuel cell with the coke buildup and physically clean any coke buildup. Disassembly requires the fuel cell to be shutdown which interrupts the power production. The anode of the fuel cell may also be adversely affected by ambient air exposure during the cleaning process. For example the commonly used reduced nickel anode in a SOFC oxidizes in ambient air to form nickel oxide causing thermal and mechanical stress in the fuel cell anode which eventually destroys the SOFC.

Yet another method of removing coke buildup is flushing the reformate channel and the fuel cell with oxidizing reagents such as oxygen at elevated temperatures. The oxidizing reagent reacts with the coke buildup and forms a carbon dioxide gas which easily passes through the fuel cell system. Since the oxidizing reagent also reacts with hydrogen obviously the fuel cell must be shutdown during the cleaning. Furthermore oxidation of the anode of the fuel cell commonly reduced nickel will also occur if the oxidizing reagent reaches the anode thus poses a risk of destroying SOFC.

Therefore a need exists to have a fuel cell system that is capable of continual and uninterrupted processing of fuels having heavy aromatics high sulfur content or combinations thereof without coke buildup to impair the fuel cell operation.

A device and method for the removal of a contaminate such as carbon from a gas stream. The gas stream is passed through one or more ECOD electro catalytic oxidation devices . Each ECOD electro catalytic oxidation device has an ECOD anode an ECOD cathode and an ECOD electrolyte. The ECOD anode is made of a material which is porous and chemically active to the electro catalytic oxidation of the contaminate. The ECOD cathode is made of a material which promotes the electro chemical reduction of oxygen to oxidized ions. The ECOD electrolyte is made of a material which is non permeable to gas electrically insulating and a conductor to oxidized ions. The ECOD electrolyte is positioned between and in ionic contact with the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode. The ECOD anode is electrically connected to the ECOD cathode through an external circuit. Preferably the ECOD removes carbonaceous contaminates from a fuel cell system preventing coke buildup within the fuel cell.

A device and method for the removal of contaminates such as carbon from a gas stream. The gas stream is passed through one or more ECOD electro catalytic oxidation devices . depicts a side view of an embodiment of an ECOD . The ECOD comprises an ECOD anode an ECOD electrolyte an ECOD cathode and a wire .

The ECOD electrolyte is positioned between and in ionic contact with the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . The ECOD electrolyte is preferably directly connected to the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . In one embodiment one or more ion conductors are positioned between the electrolyte and the ECOD anode the electrolyte and the cathode or combinations thereof. The wire preferably a low resistance copper wire electrically connects the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . An influent is passed along the surface of the ECOD anode . Contaminates from the influent will condense on the surface of the ECOD anode . Preferably the contaminates are carbonaceous contaminates which cause a coke buildup on the surface of the ECOD anode . The ECOD anode is maintained at a temperature which promotes the formation of the buildup.

For example in the case of an electrochemical removal of carbonaceous contaminate in a first reaction shown in Eq. 1 the cathode will capture four electrons from the surface of the ECOD cathode to form an oxide ion O . O 4 2O Eq. 1 

In a second reaction shown in Eq. 2 the oxide ion O is driven by the electrochemical potential to migrate to the ECOD anode through the electrolyte layer and reacts with the coke buildup on the surface of the ECOD anode creating COand electricity. 2O C CO 4 Eq. 2 

During the second reaction the coke buildup is consumed. An ECOD effluent is therefore created from the ECOD influent with significantly less components prone to coke formation. Electricity is produced by the electro oxidation of the coke buildup and dissipated through line loss in the wire . Alternatively the wire may be connected to an energy storage device not shown in order to collect any energy generated. The energy storage device may be any device capable of storing electrical energy. The energy storage device is preferably a battery a super capacitor or other storage devices performing a similar function. In the alternative the generated energy may be aggregated to the energy production of the fuel cell.

The ECOD anode is porous and chemically active to the electro catalytic oxidation of the coke buildup . In a preferred embodiment the ECOD anode is made of nickel supported over gadolinium doped cerium oxide Ni CGO . Alternatively any anode material for solid oxide fuel cells operable at a temperature within the window of carbon condensation preferably about 400 C. to 650 C. may be used. The ECOD anode is operated at a temperature within the window of carbon condensation preferably about 400 C. to 650 C. Preferably the ECOD anode is at a temperature between about 500 C. and 600 C. Under such conditions polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons PAH formed from the polymerization and aromatization of the unsaturated hydrocarbons and aromatics in the ECOD influent will generate a coke buildup on the ECOD anode surface. The ECOD anode temperature may be maintained using various heat and cooling methods. For example the ECOD anode may be heated by heat from the fuel cell system e.g. fuel reformer fuel cell combustion from fuel cell exhaust or a combination thereof. The ECOD anode may also be cooled for example by input air various water cooling methods cooling fans or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment the ECOD influent reformate having a temperature as high as about 1000 C. is sufficiently cooled to the desired ECOD anode temperature between about 500 C. and 600 C. by heat loss to ambient air. In the alternative the ECOD anode temperature may also be maintained by a temperature controlled system such as a heat exchanging system utilizing an electric heater fuel based heater waste heat from fuel cell exhaust or reformer fans air conditioning system or combinations thereof.

The ECOD electrolyte is non permeable to the ECOD influent reformate electrically insulating and a conductor to oxidized ions at the operating temperature of the ECOD . Preferably the ECOD electrolyte is non permeable to the ECOD influent reformate electrically insulating and a conductor to oxidized ions between about 400 C. and 650 C. more preferably 500 C. and 600 C. In a preferred embodiment the ECOD electrolyte is gadolinium doped cerium oxide CGO or Cerium Oxide.

The ECOD cathode is made of a material which promotes the electrochemical reduction of oxygen to oxide ions at the operating temperature of the ECOD . Preferably the ECOD cathode promotes the electrochemical reduction of oxygen to oxide ions between about 400 C. and 650 C. more preferably 500 C. and 600 C. Preferably the ECOD cathode is Ag CGO YBiO or SmSrCoO. In a preferred embodiment the ECOD cathode is Ag CGO. The ECOD cathode is exposed to O preferably from ambient air.

Although the ECOD may have any shape a cylindrical shaped ECOD as shown in is preferred. shows a cylindrical tube ECOD having an ECOD anode an ECOD electrolyte and an ECOD cathode . The ECOD anode is a cylindrical tube having an aperture which allows the ECOD influent to pass through the ECOD anode . The ECOD anode and ECOD cathode are electrically connected preferably by a wire .

The ECOD electrolyte is preferably a cylindrical tube which is connected to and surrounds the ECOD anode . Likewise the ECOD cathode is a cylindrical tube which is connected to and surrounds the ECOD electrolyte . A cylindrical shaped ECOD maximizes the surface area to promote the reaction of coke buildup on the ECOD anode with oxygen on the surface of the ECOD cathode . The ECOD can also be other geometrical shapes such as planer or a cylindrical shape having a rough surface.

In yet another alternative embodiment an insert is placed in the space between ECOD anode and the ECOD influent to generate flow turbulence and improve the gas phase surface interaction. An example of such insert includes a spiral turbulator for the cylindrical shaped ECOD . Other designs of gas turbulators known in the art may also be used.

The fuel source the fuel channel the fuel reformer the reformate channel the ECOD channel and the fuel cell are further described in 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 herein fully incorporated by reference.

Although only one ECOD is shown in any number of ECODs can be used. Multiple ECODs may be connected in series or parallel. For example multiple ECODs can be connected in series to further minimize any coke forming contaminants within the ECOD effluent. Multiple ECODs may also be connected in parallel to minimize interference with fuel cell operation while coke buildup within an individual ECOD is removed as in a preferred embodiment.

Fuel from the fuel source is transferred from the fuel source to the fuel reformer via the fuel channel . The fuel reformer converts the fuel catalytically or chemically into a reformate a hydrogen rich gas. The reformate also known as the ECOD influent is transferred to the ECOD via the reformate channel .

Preferably the fuel source fuel channel the fuel reformer or a combination thereof provide sufficient pressure to transport the fuel in its various stages reformate ECOD effluent through the fuel cell system . In the alternative one or more pumps may be used to transfer the fuel in its various stages throughout the fuel cell system . Preferably any pumps added to the fuel cell system are placed within the appropriate channel fuel channel reformate channel and ECOD channel .

The ECOD removes carbonaceous contaminates by condensation and an electro catalytic oxidation reaction. Meanwhile the process generates electricity and an ECOD effluent which is free of carbonaceous contaminates. The ECOD effluent is passed to the fuel cell via the ECOD channel . Finally the fuel cell generates electricity from the ECOD effluent. A coke buildup will not form within the fuel cell even if a heavy aromatic fuel or a fuel having a high sulfur content is used as the fuel in the fuel source .

The fuel source is capable of holding a fuel and capable of transporting the fuel through the fuel channel to the fuel reformer . In one embodiment the fuel source is a metal container having a pump able to produce a mist or vapor of fuel into the fuel channel . In the preferred embodiment the fuel source is a metal container and the fuel channel has or is a pump capable of producing a mist or vapor of fuel into the fuel reformer . The fuel can be any hydrocarbon fuel capable of being processed to generate a hydrogen rich reformate for use within a fuel cell. In a preferred embodiment the fuel is diesel. In the alternative multiple fuel sources fuel channels or combinations thereof may be used to supply a fuel or a plurality of fuels to the fuel reformer .

The fuel channel reformate channel and ECOD channel are capable of containing the fuel in its various forms at different stages while transferring it to fuel reformer ECOD and fuel cell respectively. The fuel channel is preferably made of corrosion resistant metals as those know in the field of the art. The reformate channel ECOD channel are each preferably made of high temperature metals although other materials may be used such as a ceramic. In a preferred embodiment the fuel channel is made of stainless steel tubing and the reformate channel and the ECOD channel are made of high temperature stainless steel tubes.

The fuel reformer is capable of converting the hydrocarbon fuel into a hydrogen rich reformate suitable to be fed into the fuel cell to generate electricity. Preferably the fuel reformer is a steam a catalytic partial oxidation a non catalytic partial oxidation or an autothermal reformer described in 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 pp 8 12 8 14 2004 herein fully incorporated by reference. More preferably the fuel reformer is an autothermal reformer capable of reforming a preferred diesel fuel such U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 993 619 and 5 935 010 or as described in 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 pp 8 12 8 14 2004 herein fully incorporated by reference. Generally in autothermal reforming a substoichiometric amount of air or oxygen is used to partially oxidize the fuel and decompose it into the reformate generally a mixture of hydrogen and carbon oxides such as CO and CO. This partial oxidation caused by the oxygen is highly exothermic and can raise the reformer and reformate to a very high temperature. To balance the heat of partial oxidation water or steam is often co injected with the fuel into the reformer to initiate the endothermic steam reforming which also produces hydrogen and carbon oxides with the hydrocarbon fuels. In a preferred application of autothermal reforming the oxygen to carbon ratio O C is maintained at about 0.3 to 0.5 and the steam to carbon ratio HO C is maintained at about 1 to 6 although other ratios may be known to those skilled in the art. For fuel cell in transportation or remote power generation HO C is generally maintained as low as possible in order to minimize the need for the onboard water storage.

A catalyst in the fuel reformer facilitates the conversion of the fuel into the reformate by lowering the reaction potential of the fuel in the fuel reformer . The catalyst can be any material that promotes the conversion of the fuel into a reformate usable by the fuel cell . The reforming catalyst can be made of a dispersed transition metal such as Ni Co or noble metal such as Rh Pt Ru supported over the refractory oxides or exchanged into a perovskite support combinations thereof or based thereof. In a preferred embodiment the catalyst is a perovskite material with rhodium or ruthenium exchanged into the B site of the lattice. The result of the autothermal reforming can be a slightly exothermic process. For most heavy aromatic hydrocarbon fuels including diesel temperatures of about 500 1000 C. are used to reform the fuel. In a preferred embodiment the fuel reformer is an autothermal reformer using a rhodium or ruthenium exchanged perovskite catalyst and operated at about 700 800 C. In the alternative multiple fuel reformers reformate channels or combinations thereof may be used to supply a reformate or a plurality of reformates to the ECOD or a plurality of ECODs.

The fuel cell is capable of generating electricity from the electrochemical reaction of hydrogen compounds with oxygen compounds such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 543 241 or the 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 pp 3 1 7 49 2004 herein fully incorporated by reference. Such fuel cells include but are not limited to polymer electrolyte alkaline phosphoric acid molten carbonate proton exchange membrane and solid oxide fuel cells. The reformate or ECOD effluent both have hydrogen compounds capable of being used by the fuel cell to generate electricity.

In a preferred embodiment the fuel cell is a solid oxide fuel cell SOFC such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 893 760 and the 7ed. National Energy Technology Laboratory 2004 DOE NETL 2004 1206 OSTI ID 834188 pp 7 1 7 49 2004 herein fully incorporated by reference. The solid oxide fuel cell consists of an anode an electrolyte and a cathode. The SOFC anode is porous and chemically active to the electro catalytic oxidation of hydrogen. Preferably the SOFC anode is a cermet with a porous metal mixed with oxide ion conducting metal oxide such as nickel mixed with YO stabilized ZrO YSZ Co ZrOor NiZrO although other anode materials may also be used. In a preferred embodiment the SOFC anode is a mixture of nickel metal with YO stabilized ZrO YSZ . Early SOFCs required a temperature of about 1000 C. but improvements in the fuel cell electrolyte have lowered the temperature to about 700 900 C. In the alternative multiple fuel cells may be used to generate electricity.

The SOFC electrolyte is non porous and a conductor to oxide ions. Preferably the SOFC electrolyte is nonporous YO stabilized ZrO YSZ Gadolinium doped ceria or lanthanum gallate with strontium doping. In a preferred embodiment the SOFC electrolyte is YSZ.

The SOFC cathode promotes the electro chemical reduction of oxygen to oxide ions. The SOFC cathode is preferably a lanthanum based perovskite material such as LaMnO or Sr doped LaMnO. In a preferred embodiment the fuel cell cathode is Sr doped LaMnO.

In a preferred embodiment the ECOD has a means for electrically connecting and disconnecting the ECOD anode and ECOD cathode. shows a cross sectional view of a preferred embodiment of the ECOD having a switch to electrically connect the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . As discussed above the ECOD anode and ECOD cathode are separated by an ECOD electrolyte . In a preferred embodiment the ECOD anode and ECOD cathode are electrically connected by wires a switch a current sensor and an energy storage device . The wires switch current sensor and energy storage device are connected in series. The wires electrically connect the ECOD anode the energy storage device current sensor and the ECOD cathode when the switch is in a closed position.

Therefore the ECOD to operates in two modes a trapping mode and a regeneration mode. In the trapping mode the switch is placed in an open position whereby there is no electrical connection between the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . Carbonaceous contaminates from the reformate will collect as a coke buildup on the surface of the ECOD anode . In this mode the coke buildup will not react with Oon the surface of the ECOD cathode nor will CObe produced within the ECOD anode . No energy is generated and therefore no energy is collected by the energy storage device .

In the regeneration mode the switch is positioned in the closed position creating an electrical circuit between the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode . While in the regeneration mode oxide ions formed through Eq. 1 on the surface of ECOD cathode will be driven by the electrochemical potential to migrate to the ECOD anode . Coke buildup on the surface of the ECOD anode during the trapping mode will be oxidized and form COwith the oxide ions according to Eq. 2. Reformate flow through the ECOD does not have to be suspended during the regeneration mode therefore the fuel cell will not have to be shutdown. However some hydrogen may be consumed by the ECOD. Energy is generated by the overall electrochemical oxidation of carbon from the coke buildup on the ECOD anode with oxygen at the ECOD cathode surface. The generated energy will be collected by the energy storage device . Once the coke buildup is depleted the ECOD preferably enters the trapping mode to prevent further consumption of hydrogen by opening the electric circuit between the ECOD anode and ECOD cathode of the ECOD preferably by placing the switch in the open position.

Preferably the switch is periodically switched to remove the coke buildup while minimizing the consumption of hydrogen from the reformate by the ECOD . The periodical switching can be operated at variable frequencies. The frequency of switching is highly dependent on the type of the fuel the amount of the fuel being processed and the reformer operating parameters. The operating parameters directly related to the switching frequency include the reforming temperature O C ratio HO C ratio etc. Generally higher reforming temperatures higher O C and HO C ratios will lead to a lower switching frequency and vice versa. In addition the switching frequency also depends on the fuel processing rate determined by fuel cell fuel consumption and the ratio of the size of the fuel cell and the size of the ECOD . For the economical reasons the size of the ECOD should be a fraction of the size of the fuel cell in terms of the active electrochemical surface area. In a preferred embodiment utilizing a SOFC the ECOD is about 1 10 the size of the fuel cell and the switch is closed about once every 20 seconds. Alternatively the size of the ECOD can be reduced if the switch is closed more frequently.

Alternately the regeneration of ECOD is determined by analyzing the change in electrical current between ECOD anode and ECOD cathode as a function of time through the current sensor when the switch is in the closed position. In this embodiment the switch is periodically placed in the closed position placing the ECOD in the regeneration mode. The oxidation of coke generally has slower rate generating less electrical current in comparison with oxidation of reformate. Once the coke buildup has been depleted the ECOD anode will be exposed to the reformate therefore an increase in current between the ECOD anode and ECOD cathode can be detected signaling that hydrogen is being consumed. Once hydrogen begins to be consumed the switch is placed in the open position placing the ECOD in the trapping mode to prevent further consumption of hydrogen.

The wires are any electrically conductive material preferably a copper wire. The switch is a device having at least two states an electrically conductive state closed position and an electrically insulating state open position . Ideally the switch has a low internal resistance. The switch is preferably a rocker switch toggle switch or push button single pole single throw switch. In the alternative the switch may be electrically controlled such as a relay BJT transistor MOSFET transistor JFET transistor IGFET MOSFET transistor IGBT transistor and combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment a relay switch is used to electrically connect the ECOD anode and the ECOD cathode of the ECOD .

The energy storage device may be any device capable of storing and releasing the electrical energy such as a battery a supercapacitor and combinations therefore. Preferably the energy stored in the storage device is released during the ECOD trapping mode so that the energy storage device will not be saturated during the regeneration mode. In a preferred embodiment the generated energy is aggregated to the energy production of the fuel cell. The energy storage device may also be a simple wire foregoing the use of energy produced by the ECOD .

The current sensor may be any device capable of detecting electrical current. Preferably by the use of one or more volt meters shunt resistors current probes or other methods known in the art.

A fuel cell system utilizing a plurality of the ECOD can preferably process incoming reformate in a concurrent mode or alternating mode. In the concurrent mode the reformate is preferably processed by a plurality of the ECODs in series or in parallel further minimizing coke producing compounds from entering the fuel cell. In the alternating mode the incoming reformate is preferably redirected to a parallel ECOD while the ECOD having the coke buildup is isolated from the reformate flow and placed in the regeneration mode. In the alternating mode the regeneration step is self extinguished when the coke buildup is consumed which minimizes the potential parasitic consumption of hydrogen and CO in the reformate.

In the alternating mode the reformate is preferably passed only through an ECOD in the trapping mode. Since the reformate is isolated from the ECOD in the regeneration mode parasitic losses of hydrogen and carbon monoxide are kept at a minimum while any coke buildup is completely removed. Preferably the reformate is restricted by valves placed at the entrance or the exit of the first ECOD the second ECOD the first reformate channel the first ECOD channel the second reformate channel the second ECOD channel or combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment a 4 way crossover valve is used to direct the reformate to either the first ECOD or the second ECOD . When the valve is positioned to flow the reformate through the first ECOD the first ECOD is put in the trapping mode and the second ECOD is put in the regeneration mode. After a period sufficient to remove the coke buildup saturated over the ECOD anode of the second ECOD the valve is switched to flow the reformate through the second ECOD and similarly the first ECOD is put in the regeneration mode and the second ECOD is put in the trapping mode.

The current sensor may be used to detect the change in current generated from the breakdown of the coke buildup within an ECOD in regeneration mode. When the coke buildup has been depleted a significant loss in current produced by the ECOD can be detected. The detection of this decrease in current will trigger the valve to change the ECOD from regeneration to trapping mode while swapping the other ECOD from trapping to regeneration mode.

Although the ECOD described above is utilized only in a fuel cell system the ECOD may be utilized to remove a contaminant in any gas stream capable of electro catalytic oxidation. It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

