---

title: System and method of instant messaging between wireless devices
abstract: A system and method of instant messaging is disclosed and includes transmitting an indication from a wireless device to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device. Further, a plurality of communication signals between the wireless device and a plurality of base stations are monitored. After determining that the wireless device has one remaining communication signal with one base station, the one remaining communication signal is monitored. Moreover, a time history of signal strength data for the one remaining communication signal is recorded and a slope of the signal strength data is determined. Based on the slope of the signal strength data, it can be determined whether an imminent loss of signal is about to occur at the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08028024&OS=08028024&RS=08028024
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08028024
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
The present disclosure generally relates to wireless devices. More particularly the disclosure relates to instant messaging between wireless devices.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful wireless devices. For example there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Further many such wireless devices provide significant computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

Typically these smaller and more powerful wireless devices are often resource constrained. For example the screen size the amount of available memory and file system space and the amount of input and output capabilities may be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is can be desirable to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such wireless devices.

Some of these wireless devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device system hardware and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function thus not requiring the developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can provide one or more interfaces to particular hardware and software features found on wireless devices.

Further the BREW platform can be used in an end to end software distribution system to provide a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and wireless device manufacturers and consumers. One such currently available end to end software distribution system called the BREW solution developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated includes logic distributed over a server client architecture wherein the server can perform billing security and application distribution functionality and wherein the client can perform application execution security and user interface functionality.

In certain cases instant messaging applications can be used to establish communication between a first wireless device and a second wireless device. If a wireless device to which an instant message is targeted is not in service e.g. not within a coverage area provided by one or more base stations the sending device may only receive an indication that the target device is not responding to the instant message.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an improved system and method of instant messaging between wireless devices.

A method of instant messaging is disclosed and includes transmitting an indication from a wireless device to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device. Further the method includes determining that an imminent loss of signal is about to occur at the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment the method includes monitoring a plurality of communication signals between the wireless device and a plurality of base stations determining whether the wireless device has one remaining communication signal with one base station and monitoring the one remaining communication signal. In another particular embodiment the method further includes recording a time history of signal strength data for the one remaining communication signal determining a slope of the signal strength data and based on the slope of the signal strength data determining whether the imminent loss of signal is about to occur at the wireless device.

In yet another particular embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the instant messaging server that the wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition. In still another particular embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the instant messaging server to hold instant messages. Additionally in a particular embodiment the method includes monitoring the wireless device for a communication signal and determining when the communication signal is re acquired.

In another particular embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the instant messaging server that the communication signal is re acquired. Moreover in a particular embodiment the method includes indicating to the instant messaging server to send instant messages that were received while the wireless device was out of communication with the instant messaging server.

In another embodiment a method of instant messaging is disclosed and includes receiving an instant messaging status message from a first wireless device at an instant messaging server determining whether instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device and determining whether a de registration message is received from the first wireless device at the instant messaging server. In this embodiment the de registration message indicates that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition.

In yet another embodiment a method of instant messaging is disclosed and includes transmitting one or more instant messages from a sending wireless device to a target wireless device via an instant messaging server and receiving an indication at the sending wireless device from the instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the target wireless device but the target wireless device is out of service.

In another embodiment a communication system is provided and includes a first wireless device a second wireless device and an instant messaging server that is coupled to the first wireless device and the second wireless device. The instant messaging server includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. A computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive an instant messaging status message from a first wireless device instructions to determine whether instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device and instructions to determine whether a de registration message is received from the first wireless device. The de registration message can indicate that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition and that the first wireless device is about to go out of service.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. Further a computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to transmit an indication from a wireless device to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device and instructions to transmit an indication of an imminent loss of signal condition.

In yet another embodiment an instant messaging server is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. Moreover a computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to receive an instant messaging status message from a first wireless device instructions to determine whether instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device and instructions to determine whether a de registration message is received from the first wireless device. The de registration message can indicate that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition.

In still yet another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. A computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and includes instructions to transmit one or more instant messages from to a target wireless device via an instant messaging server and instructions to receive an indication from the instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the target wireless device but the target wireless device is out of service.

In another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive an instant messaging status message from a first wireless device at an instant messaging server instructions to determine whether instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device and instructions to determine whether a de registration message is received from the first wireless device at the instant messaging server. The de registration message can indicate that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition.

In still another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to transmit an indication from a wireless device to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device and instructions to determine that an imminent loss of signal is about to occur at the wireless device.

In another embodiment a computer program is embedded within a computer readable medium and includes instructions to transmit one or more instant messages from a sending wireless device to a target wireless device via an instant messaging server and instructions to receive an indication at the sending wireless device from the instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the target wireless device but the target wireless device is out of service.

In yet another embodiment an instant messaging server is disclosed and includes means for receiving an instant messaging status message from a first wireless device at an instant messaging server means for determining whether instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device and means for determining whether a de registration message is received from the first wireless device at the instant messaging server. The de registration message can indicate that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal and the first wireless device is about to go out of service.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for transmitting an indication from a wireless device to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device and means for determining that an imminent loss of signal is about to occur at the wireless device.

In another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for transmitting one or more instant messages from a sending wireless device to a target wireless device via an instant messaging server and means for receiving an indication from the instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the target wireless device but the target wireless device is out of service.

An advantage of one or more of embodiments disclosed herein can include indicating to an instant messaging server that a wireless device is about to lose service.

Another advantage can include holding instant messages at an instant messaging server for a wireless device that has lost service.

Still another advantage can include indicating to a sending wireless device that a target wireless device has instant messaging enabled but has lost service.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a wireless device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action. The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used in connection with one or more wireless devices.

In one or more embodiments a wireless device may utilize a runtime environment such as a version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers is implemented on a wireless device executing a runtime environment such as the current version of the BREW platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless devices.

As illustrated in the wireless device can be a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a pager or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. In a particular embodiment the pager can be a two way text pager. Further in an alternative embodiment the wireless device can have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The exemplary non limiting system can include any form of a remote module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones with or without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As depicted in the application download server is coupled to a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . The system includes a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . Further as indicated in the system also includes at least one stored application database that stores software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server the second server and the stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates the system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the system . The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as the wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server are compatible with wireless communication services and can communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In an illustrative embodiment the server contains a server security module that further contains logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the server security module can operate in conjunction with a client security module located on a wireless device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS network transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base transceiver stations BTS . The MSC can be connected to the BTS by both a data network for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as to wireless telephone by the short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory ROM or RAM EEPROM flash memory or any other memory suitable for computer platforms.

The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the client security module can operate in conjunction with the server security module to provide secure communications. As illustrated in the computer platform can further include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . In an illustrative embodiment the local database is stored within a flash memory cell but it can be stored within any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape or floppy or hard disk.

A wireless device e.g. the wireless device can download one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server . Further the wireless device can store the downloaded applications in the local database when not in use and can load stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution by the API when desired by the user. Further communications over the wireless network may be performed in a secure manner at least in part due to the interaction and operation of the client security module and the server security module . As shown in the API can also include a global positioning system GPS module and a reminder module .

In a particular embodiment each wireless device can include a program for determining when each wireless device is about to lose communication with the wireless telephone network and as such be unable to receive instant messages. When either wireless device is about to experience an imminent loss of coverage the wireless device can indicate to the instant messaging server to hold instant messages to the wireless devices at the instant messaging server .

In a particular embodiment the first wireless device and the second wireless device can be a wireless telephone a cellular telephone a lap top computer a desktop computer a handheld computer a portable digital assistant PDA or any other electronic device that is configured to communicate via wireless connection or a wired connection. Further the programs can operate using the BREW platform described above.

As illustrated in the instant messaging server can include a processor and a computer readable medium e.g. a memory that is accessible to the processor . In a particular embodiment a computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and can be used to control instant messaging between the wireless devices . More particularly when either wireless device transmits a de registration message to the instant messaging server that indicates that the wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of service condition or imminent loss of signal condition the instant messaging server can hold instant messages to the wireless device until the wireless device re acquires a communication signal and returns to service. described in detail below illustrate exemplary non limiting methods that can be used to control instant messaging between the wireless devices .

Referring to a method of instant messaging is shown and commences at block . At block a wireless device indicates to an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the wireless device. Thereafter at block the wireless device monitors a plurality of communication signals between the wireless device and a plurality of base stations. At block the wireless device determines whether only one communication signal between the wireless device and a base station remains. If not the method returns to block and continues as described herein. Conversely if only one communication signal remains the method proceeds to block and the wireless device monitors the one remaining signal.

Moving to block the wireless device records a time history of signal strength data for the one remaining signal. At block the wireless device determines the slope of the recorded data. Next at decision step the wireless device determines whether the wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal. In a particular embodiment the wireless device determines whether the wireless device is about to lose the one remaining signal based on the slope of the recorded data. In other words if the slope is relatively steep and downward the wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal.

At decision step if the wireless device is not experiencing an imminent loss of signal the method returns to block and continues as described herein. On the other hand if the wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal the method continues to block and the wireless device indicates to the instant messaging server that a loss of signal or connection is about to occur. Proceeding to block the wireless device indicates to the instant messaging server to hold instant messages to the wireless device until a communication signal is re acquired by the wireless device.

Moving to block the wireless device monitors a transceiver within the wireless device for a communication signal. At decision step the wireless device determines whether the transceiver within the wireless device has re acquired a communication signal. If the wireless device has not re acquired a signal the method returns to block and continues as described herein. Otherwise if a signal is re acquired the method continues to block and the wireless device indicates to the instant messaging server that a communication signal has been re acquired. At block the wireless device indicates to the instant messaging server to send instant messages to the wireless device that were received at the instant messaging server and held while the wireless device was incommunicado. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device the method proceeds to decision step and the instant messaging server determines whether a de registration message is received at the instant messaging server from the first wireless device. In a particular embodiment the de registration message indicates to the instant messaging server that the first wireless device is experiencing an imminent loss of signal condition and that the first wireless device is about to lose a communication signal and go out of service. At decision step if the de registration message is not received at the instant messaging server from the first wireless device the method proceeds to block and the instant messaging server transmits instant messages to the first wireless device as the instant messages are received at the instant messaging server e.g. from the second wireless device. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step when the de registration message is received from the first wireless device the method proceeds to block and the instant messaging server indicates to the second wireless device that instant messaging is enabled at the first wireless device but the first wireless device is out of service. Thereafter at block the instant messaging server holds all instant messages to the first wireless device until the first wireless device is back in service.

Moving to decision step the instant messaging server determines whether a re registration message is received from the first wireless device. If a re registration message is not received the method returns to block and continues as described herein. Conversely when a re registration message is received the method proceeds to block and the instant messaging server transmits instant messages to the first wireless device. In an illustrative embodiment the instant messages transmitted to the first wireless device include the instant messages that were held at the instant messaging server while the first wireless device was incommunicado.

Proceeding to block the instant messaging server indicates to the second wireless device that the first wireless device is back in service. The method then ends at state . In a particular embodiment the first wireless device can be a target wireless device i.e. a wireless device to which one or more instant messages are to be sent. Further in a particular embodiment the second wireless device can be a sending wireless device i.e. a wireless device from which one or more instant messages are sent.

Referring to another alternative method of instant messaging is shown and begins at block wherein a sending wireless device transmits an instant message to a target wireless device. At block the sending wireless device receives an indication from an instant messaging server that instant messaging is enabled at the target wireless device but the target wireless device is out of service. Moving to block the sending wireless device receives an indication from the instant messaging server that instant messages to the target wireless device will be held at the instant messaging server until the target wireless devices returns to service.

At block the sending wireless device receives an indication from the instant messaging server that the target wireless device has returned to service. Moving to decision step the user of the sending wireless device is queried as to whether the user wishes to transmit the held instant messages to the target wireless device. If the user of the sending wireless device answers yes to the query the method proceeds to block and the sending wireless device receives an indication from the instant messaging server that the instant messages that were held at the instant messaging server have been transmitted to the target wireless device. At block the sending wireless device receives an instant message response from the target wireless device. Then method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if the user of the sending wireless device answers no to the query the method proceeds to block and the sending wireless device receives an indication that the held instant messages have been deleted. The method then ends at state .

Referring to a wireless device is shown and is generally designated . As shown the wireless device includes a display and a keypad . further illustrates an instant messaging graphical user interface GUI that can be presented to a user via the display of the wireless device . As shown the instant messaging GUI can include a screen header a recipient or target instant messaging address input field and a text message input field . In a particular embodiment a user of the wireless device can input an instant messaging address the text message . Additionally a user of the wireless device can input an instant messaging to the text message input field .

As depicted in the instant messaging GUI can also include a send soft button and a clear soft button . In a particular embodiment can toggle the send soft button in order to transmit an instant message within the text message input field to an instant messaging server. The instant messaging server in turn can forward the instant message to the instant messaging address within the instant messaging address input field . In a particular embodiment a user can clear the fields by toggling the clear soft button .

Referring to the instant messaging GUI can also include a second message that indicates Target device has returned to service. Transmit IM As shown the instant messaging GUI can also include a yes soft button and a no soft button . A user can select the yes soft button to transmit any instant messages that have been held at the instant messaging server. Conversely a user can select the no soft button and the held emails can be deleted at the instant messaging server.

When the yes soft button is selected a third message shown in can be presented to the user by the instant messaging GUI . The third message can indicate that Held IMs have been transmitted to the target wireless device. Further as illustrated in the instant messaging GUI can include an IM soft button and a close soft button . The IM soft button can return the user to the portion of the instant messaging GUI shown in . On the other hand the close soft button can be toggled to close the instant messaging GUI .

When the no soft button is selected a fourth message shown in can be presented to the user by the instant messaging GUI . In an illustrative embodiment the fourth message can indicate to the user that Held IMs have been deleted. 

With the configuration of structure disclosed herein the system and method can allow a wireless device to transmit an indication to an instant messaging server that the wireless device is about to experience a loss of signal. As such other wireless devices that are attempting to transmit instant messages to the wireless device that has lost the communication signal can be informed that the target wireless device has experienced a loss of signal but wishes to receive instant messages once a signal is re acquired. Accordingly a user can continue to transmit instant messages to the target wireless device and an instant messaging server can hold the instant messages for transmission to the target wireless device after the target wireless device indicates that a signal has been re acquired.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a wireless device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a wireless device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

