---

title: System to present additional item information
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is disclosed. Various embodiments receive a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event, the additional information being obtained from various databases and used to generate additional information corresponding to the item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954886&OS=08954886&RS=08954886
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08954886
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060802
---
This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting computer user interfaces and online transactions by a user or content non transactional retrieval e.g. searches . An example embodiment relates to displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event.

An increasingly popular way of delivering information to Internet users is through the use of search engines. Given a user input search query usually in the form of a text search string or item selection the search engine searches databases websites and the like for data items documents links and the like that are most relevant to the input search query. The most relevant items are returned to the user in a search result usually arranged in the form of a list of items on a webpage. More advanced search engines employ context information to tie the search results to particular user behaviors identities or profiles. Such user behaviors include user access to a particular web page user selection also called mouse clicking or mouseover of a particular location on a web page user entry of a particular search string or keyword and the like.

Mouseover is the term used to indicate the user action of positioning a pointing device e.g. a computer mouse over a visual item on a webpage or user interface display for a pre determined length of time. Using conventional operating system and user interface tools a mouseover can trigger a mouseover event that can cause the execution of a particular code segment that processes the mouseover event. In this manner an action associated with the visual item on the webpage or user interface display can be triggered by a mouseover event. The mouseover is different from a mouse click where the user positions the mouse and then presses a selection button. The mouseover does not require the activation of a selection button.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 047 502 discloses a system for analyzing search results by offering preview information when users navigate a computer pointing device over pre designated areas of a search result page. A separate icon in the pre designated area enhances the advantages by providing intuitive preview ability with seamless and natural control over a variety of preview options such as the type of preview information and the manner in which it is presented. In addition while operating a preview enabled search result page users behavior provides data and attributes which may be re incorporated into the searching algorithm to improve the relevancy of search results.

Although the 502 patent offers preview information when users navigate a computer pointing device over pre designated areas of a search result page the 502 patent does not describe including a count of previously received mouseover events for the same pre designated areas of a search result. Further the 502 patent does not describe including a page view count in the preview information. Further the 502 patent does not describe offering a preview including information indicative of a relevance between the pre designated areas of a search result and a specific user based on user account information. Further the 502 patent does not describe offering a preview including an advertisement targeted at a specific user based on the user account information. Further the 502 patent does not describe offering a preview including transaction information.

Thus a system and method for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is needed.

A computer implemented system and method for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description.

As described further below according to various example embodiments of the disclosed subject matter described and claimed herein there is provided a system and method for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event. The system includes a mouseover event receiver operable to receive a mouseover event related to a visual indicator and an additional information retriever to display additional information related to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event. The visual indicator can be any object displayed on a webpage or a user interface display or any other pre determined location on a webpage or a user interface display. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates a network environment in which various example embodiments may operate. In this conventional network architecture a server computer system is coupled to a wide area network . Wide area network includes the Internet or other proprietary networks which are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Wide area network may include conventional network backbones long haul telephone lines Internet service providers various levels of network routers and other conventional means for routing data between computers. Using conventional network protocols server may communicate through wide area network to a plurality of client computer systems connected through wide area network in various ways. For example client is connected directly to wide area network through direct or dial up telephone or other network transmission line. Alternatively clients may be connected through wide area network using a modern pool . A conventional modern pool allows a plurality of client systems to connect with a smaller set of modems in modern pool for connection through wide area network . In another alternative network topology wide area network is connected to a gateway computer . Gateway computer is used to route data to clients through a local area network LAN . In this manner clients can communicate with each other through local area network or with server through gateway and wide area network .

Using one of a variety of network connection means server computer can communicate with client computers using conventional means. In a particular implementation of this network configuration a server computer may operate as a web server if the Internet s World Wide Web WWW is used for wide area network . Using the HTTP protocol and the HTML coding language across wide area network web server may communicate across the World Wide Web with clients . In this configuration clients use a client application program known as a web browser such as the Internet Explorer published by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the user interface of America On Line or the web browser or HTML renderer of any other supplier. Using such conventional browsers and the World Wide Web clients may access image graphical and textual data provided by web server or they may run Web application software. Conventional means exist by which clients may supply information to web server through the World Wide Web and the web server may return processed data to clients .

Having briefly described one embodiment of the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate show an example of a computer system illustrating an example client or server computer system in which the features of an example embodiment may be implemented. Computer system is comprised of a bus or other communications means and for communicating information and a processing means such as processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system further comprises a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device commonly referred to as main memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system also comprises a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

An optional data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to computer system for storing information and instructions. Computer system can also be coupled via bus to a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. For example image textual video or graphical depictions of information may be presented to the user on display device . Typically an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and or command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a conventional mouse trackball or other type of cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selection to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Alternatively the client can be implemented as a network computer or thin client device. Client may also be a laptop or palm top computing device such as the Palm Pilot . Client could also be implemented in a robust cellular telephone where such devices are currently being used with Internet micro browsers. Such a network computer or thin client device does not necessarily include all of the devices and features of the above described example computer system however the functionality of an example embodiment or a subset thereof may nevertheless be implemented with such devices.

A communication device is also coupled to bus for accessing remote computers or servers such as web server or other servers via the Internet for example. The communication device may include a modern a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for interfacing with Ethernet Token ring or other types of networks. In any event in this manner the computer system may be coupled to a number of servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as the infrastructure illustrated in and described above.

The system of an example embodiment includes software information processing hardware and various processing steps which will be described below. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in articles of manufacture as machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described herein. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations and or application programming interfaces may be described. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Referring to an example system configuration shows a client in network communication with a server via a network . As described above client system includes a display device on which information can be displayed e.g. web pages . An example of one such web page is shown in . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments may employ conventional user interfaces for the display of information without use of browsers or web pages. The sample web page may be used for example to display a list of items as search results in response to a user entered search query. The sample web page may be used for example to display other visual indicators such as data objects hyperlinks soft buttons input fields information items and the like. One example of such a visual indicator is shown in as visual indicator . Visual indicator may represent for example one item in a list of items a data object a hyperlink and the like. In most cases all available information related to an item represented by the visual indicator is not displayed with the visual indicator in order to save space on the user interface display. However a user may wish to see the additional information related to an item represented by the visual indicator with a minimum amount of effort. In various embodiments additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator is displayed in response to a mouseover event. As shown in a user positions a pointing device or cursor control device e.g. mouse represented by arrow within a region associated with visual indicator . After the pointing device remains within a region associated with visual indicator for a pre configured length of time the client system automatically generates a mouseover event without further user action. The mouseover event and associated information is sent to a server via a network . The information associated with the mouseover event includes an identification of the visual indicator or corresponding display screen location that caused the mouseover event .

In response to receiving such a mouseover event server stores an instance of the mouseover event in event database . Additionally server can use the identification of the visual indicator associated with the mouseover event to look up additional information associated with the visual indicator in one or more databases on or accessible to server . In this manner additional information associated with the visual indicator can be retrieved and assembled into a view of additional information stored in view database . Once a view of additional information associated with the visual indicator is generated in database the additional information can be sent back to client via network . The additional information can then be displayed in web page in a location proximate to the visual indicator that caused the mouseover event and the generation of the resulting view of additional information associated with the visual indicator . As shown the additional information can be displayed with a pointer that points to the corresponding the visual indicator . In this manner the server can receive a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a client display screen and generate for display additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event.

In various embodiments the additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator generated in response to the mouseover event can be a variety of different information depending upon the item to which the information relates. For example referring again to the server includes an item database . Item database can be used for the storage of data related to a variety of items offered for sale lease auction donation examination and the like. Some or all of the items in Item database can be listed in a web page such as web page . Each item listed can include a visual indicator associated with or representing the listed item. When a user of client system positions a pointing device in proximity to the visual indicator for the requisite length of time a mouseover event is generated and the mouseover event with information indicative of the visual indicator is sent to server . In response to the mouseover event server accesses item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator . This additional information for the listed item can include descriptive details of the item pricing information bidding information availability information shipping information and the like. This additional information associated with the listed item is thereby displayed in response to the mouseover event without requiring further action from a user of client system .

In some cases it is beneficial to know the number of times a particular item has been the object of a mouseover event. A high number of mouseover events associated with a particular item may correlate to a high level of user interest in the item. Thus various embodiments also increment a running count of mouseover events associated with each item in item database . The mouseover event counts can be stored in event database or in item database . In response to a mouseover event server increments a mouseover event count for the item and accesses Item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator . This additional information for the listed item can include the current mouseover event count for the particular item. The current mouseover event count for the item can thereby be displayed with the additional information on client web page . In this manner server can generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including a count of previously received mouseover events for the same visual indicator.

In a similar manner various embodiments also increment a running count of page views associated with views of items from item database . The page view counts can be stored in event database . In response to a mouseover event server increments a page view count for the item and accesses item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator . This additional information for the listed item can include the current page view count associated with the particular item. The current page view count can thereby be displayed with the additional information on client web page . In various embodiments the mouseover event counts and the page view counts can be initialized at the start of a new session on initial user log in on restart of the computer system or at other system configurable times. In this manner server can generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including a page view count.

Various embodiments can also store multimedia content e.g. images pictures graphics animations audio files videos and the like which is associated with items represented by a visual indicator. The multimedia content associated with items can be stored in item database . In response to a mouseover event server accesses item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and represented by the visual indicator . This additional information for the listed item can include multimedia content associated with the particular item. The multimedia content can thereby be displayed played and or rendered with the additional information on client web page . In this manner server can generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including multimedia content related to an item represented by the visual indicator.

In many circumstances it is beneficial to customize the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event based on the identity of current user of client system . The identity of the current user of client system can be determined in conventional ways from a log in identifier and or a cookie stored on the client system . Once the user identity is determined a user account associated with the identified user can be obtained. User accounts can be stored in user database . In the various embodiments described herein a user account can be defined as user specific information either entered explicitly during user registration or automatically generated during unregistered guest access to a webpage or other network location. The user specific information uniquely identifies a particular user to the system. A user profile which can also be stored in user database comprises historical behavioral and preference information captured over time and associated with a particular user as identified with user account information. In various embodiments described below the user profile information relates to relevance determination. User account information is related to user specific information for example username user shipping information or user credit card numbers and the like.

In the various embodiments described above it may be beneficial to display mouseover event counts and or page view counts only for particular users with an appropriate level of access. These access levels can be established using conventional means. If such access restrictions are enforced in various embodiments in response to a mouseover event server receives a user identifier and an item identifier from the client and increments a mouseover event count and or a page view count for the item. Server accesses Item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access the user database to determine if the identified user has the access privilege to see the mouseover event counts and or page view counts. If so server includes the counts in the additional information sent to client . If not server excludes the counts from the additional information sent to client .

In other embodiments the user account information and the user profile information is used to provide context for the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event. For example as described above the identity of the current user of client system can be determined. Additionally given the user identity a corresponding user account and a user profile stored in user database can be obtained. In response to a mouseover event server receives the user identifier and an item identifier from the client . The item identified by the item identifier corresponds to the item represented by the visual indicator that led to the mouseover event . Server can then access item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and represented by the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access the user database to obtain a corresponding user account and a user profile. Given the user account information the user profile information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can generate a variety of useful correlations and thereby produce a set of customized additional information for display on client .

The item information can be compared with the user profile information to determine the likely level of relevancy between the characteristics of the item for which the user performed a mouseover operation and the user preferences as described in the user profile. For example a user may have performed several prior searches for auto parts. Such search queries may be stored in the user s profile. If the user subsequently performs a mouseover operation on an auto parts item listed on web page the server can signal a high level of relevancy in the additional information sent to client . Conversely if the user subsequently performs a mouseover operation on a gardening item listed on web page the server can signal a low level of relevancy in the additional information sent to client . Various intermediate levels of relevancy can also be indicated. Various intermediate levels of relevancy can be indicated in a variety of ways including for example a numeric relevancy value or score various colors font selections text strings and the like. In this manner server can obtain user profile information and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including information indicative of the relevance between the visual indicator and a specific user based on the user profile information.

The item information can also be compared with the user account information to obtain user specific information based on the user account information and related to the item for which the user performed a mouseover operation. For example a user may have entered a set of preferences into his her user account information. Such preferences may include a preference for shipping purchased products in a particular manner credit card selections product color or size selections modes of merchant feedback communication and the like. For example if the user subsequently performs a mouseover operation on an item for sale that is listed on web page the server can obtain the users shipping preferences from the user account information and automatically compute the shipping charges for the mouseover item. In this manner server can obtain user account information and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including user specific information based on the user account information.

In other embodiments the user account information and or the user profile information can be used to generate targeted user specific advertisements. Generic advertising content can be stored in advertising database . The targeted advertisements are generated from the generic advertising content by server saved in advertising database and sent to client as the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event. For example as described above the identity of the current user of client system can be determined. Additionally given the user identity a corresponding user account and a user profile stored in user database can be obtained. In response to a mouseover event server receives the user identifier and an item identifier from the client . The item identified by the item identifier corresponds to the item represented by the visual indicator that led to the mouseover event . Server can then access item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access the user database to obtain a corresponding user account and a user profile. Given the user account information the user profile information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can generate targeted user specific advertisements and thereby produce a set of customized additional information for display on client . In this manner server can obtain user account information and generate additional information in response to the mouseover event the additional information including an advertisement targeted at a specific user based on the user account information.

In other embodiments transaction information is used to provide transactional context for the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event. Transaction information can include commercial and financial information related to the buying selling leasing ordering inquiring and offering of goods and services. Conventional systems collect transaction information in the normal course of business. Such transaction information can be retained in transaction database . In some cases each transaction can be cross referenced to a particular product or item. In other cases each transaction can be cross referenced to a particular seller or purchaser user . In response to a mouseover event server receives the user identifier and an item identifier from the client . The item identified by the item identifier corresponds to the item represented by the visual indicator that led to the mouseover event . Server can then access item database if necessary to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and represented by the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access if necessary the user database to obtain a corresponding user account and a user profile. Given the user account information the user profile information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can access the transaction database to generate a variety of useful correlations between and among the mouseover item the user and prior transactions involving the same or similar items the same or related user purchaser the same or related seller manufacturer distributor the same or similar item category the same or similar price point and the like. The transaction information obtained from the transaction database can also include a seller rating a seller location and a transaction history with other buyers similar to the user purchaser. This transaction information is used in various embodiments to generate a variety of useful correlations to the mouseover item and thereby increase the likelihood that the user purchaser will complete a transaction. Server can thereby produce a set of customized transaction related additional information for display on client . In this manner server can obtain transaction information and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including the transaction information.

In various embodiments item information can be compared with the user profile information and transaction information to determine the likely level of relevancy between the characteristics of the item for which the user performed a mouseover operation and the user preferences and or behavior as described in the user profile and in the transaction information. For example a user may have performed several prior searches for auto parts. Such search queries may be stored in the user s profile. Further transaction information may indicate that there is a strong correlation between purchases of auto parts and purchases of new cars. If the user subsequently performs a mouseover operation on a new car item listed on web page the server can signal a high level of relevancy in the additional information sent to client . Conversely if the user subsequently performs a mouseover operation on a gardening item listed on web page the server can signal a low level of relevancy in the additional information sent to client . Various intermediate levels of relevancy can also be indicated. Various intermediate levels of relevancy can be indicated in a variety of ways including for example a numeric relevancy value or score various colors font selections text strings and the like. In this manner server can obtain transaction information and user profile information and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including information indicative of a relevance between the item represented by the visual indicator and a specific user based on the user profile information and the transaction information.

In other embodiments the user account information and or the user profile information can be used in combination with transaction information to generate targeted user specific advertisements. The targeted advertisements are generated by server and sent to client as the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event. For example as described above the identity of the current user of client system can be determined. Additionally given the user identity a corresponding user account and a user profile stored in user database can be obtained. In response to a mouseover event server receives the user identifier and an item identifier from the client . The item identified by the item identifier corresponds to the item represented by the visual indicator that led to the mouseover event . Server can then access item database to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access the user database to obtain a corresponding user account and a user profile. Given the user account information the user profile information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can access the transaction database to generate a variety of useful correlations between and among the mouseover item the user and prior transactions involving the same or similar items and the same user. Server can thereby produce a set of customized transaction related additional information for display on client . Given the user account information the user profile information the transaction information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can generate targeted user specific advertisements and thereby produce a set of customized additional information for display on client . In this manner server can obtain transaction information and user account information and generate additional information in response to the mouseover event the additional information including an advertisement targeted at a specific user based on the transaction information and the user account information.

In other embodiments site specific information is used to provide site specific context for the additional information displayed in response to a mouseover event. Site specific information can include local regional or country specific items translations site specific logos and other location specific commercial and financial information related to the buying selling leasing ordering inquiring and offering of goods and services. Conventional systems collect site specific information in the normal course of business. Such site specific information can be retained in site specific database . In some cases each item can be cross referenced to one or more locations. In other cases particular users can be cross referenced to one or more locations. In response to a mouseover event server receives the user identifier and an item identifier from the client . The item identified by the item identifier corresponds to the item represented by the visual indicator that led to the mouseover event . Server can then access item database if necessary to obtain additional information related to the item listed on web page and represented by the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received. Server can also access if necessary the user database to obtain a corresponding user account. Given the user account information and the item information associated with the visual indicator for which a mouseover event was received server can access the site specific database to generate a variety of useful site specific information related to the mouseover item and the user. Server can thereby produce a set of customized site specific additional information for display on client . In this manner server can obtain site specific information and generate additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including the site specific information.

Referring now to an example of a system implementing various embodiments is illustrated. As shown a mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that mouseover event receiver can be implemented in software components and or hardware components and or combinations thereof. It will also be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that mouseover event receiver can be implemented in client server or partially in both client and server . Upon receiving a mouseover event mouseover event receiver posts the mouseover event in event database . This mouseover event posting alerts the activation of additional information retriever . Additional information retriever obtains information from various databases and generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event. The additional information can include a variety of information related to the user other related items related sellers advertisements transactions site specific information and the like.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including a page view count.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains user profile information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including information indicative of the relevance between the visual indicator and a specific user based on the user profile information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains user account information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including user specific information based on the user account information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains user account information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information in response to the mouseover event the additional information including an advertisement targeted at a specific user based on the user account information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including multimedia content related to an item represented by the visual indicator.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains transaction information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including the transaction information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains transaction information. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains user profile information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including information indicative of a relevance between the item and a specific user based on the user profile information and the transaction information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains transaction information. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains user account information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information in response to the mouseover event the additional information including an advertisement targeted at a specific user based on the transaction information and the user account information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains site specific information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including the site specific information.

Referring now to an embodiment of the processing flow used for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event is illustrated. In processing block the mouseover event receiver receives a mouseover event corresponding to a visual indicator displayed on a display screen. In processing block the additional information retriever obtains site specific information. In processing block the additional information retriever generates additional information corresponding to an item represented by the visual indicator in response to the mouseover event the additional information including an advertisement targeted at specific users based on the site specific information.

Referring to another alternative embodiment is illustrated. In this embodiment a plurality of additional information blocks is shown in response to a plurality of mouseover events. As shown in a first additional information block is shown in response to a first mouseover i.e. a user positioning a pointing device to create a mouseover event of a first visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Acura automobile in an item list. The additional information displayed in first additional information block represents detailed information related to the item corresponding to the first mouseover event. In this example the item corresponding to the first mouseover event represents a category of items e.g. a category of Acura automobiles . Once the first additional information block is shown in response to the first mouseover event the user may mouseover one of the visual indicators displayed in the first additional information block to generate a second mouseover event. An example of this is shown in . In the user has performed a second mouseover of a second visual indicator displayed in the first additional information block the second visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Integra automobile in the Acura category . The second mouseover of the second visual indicator generates a second mouseover event. As a result of the second mouseover event a second additional information block is shown in response to the second mouseover event of the second visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Integra automobile in the Acura category in an item list displayed in the first additional information block . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the same technique can be used to display a plurality of additional information blocks corresponding to a plurality of related mouseover events. In each case a deeper or more detailed set of additional information can be displayed in additional information blocks as the user performs subsequent mouseover actions. In this manner various embodiments receive a first mouseover event corresponding to a first visual indicator generate a first additional information block corresponding to an item represented by the first visual indicator in response to the first mouseover event receive a second mouseover event corresponding to a second visual indicator displayed in the first additional information block and generate a second additional information block corresponding to an item represented by the second visual indicator in response to the second mouseover event.

Referring to another alternative embodiment is illustrated. In this embodiment an additional information block is shown in response to a mouseover event i.e. a user positioning a pointing device to create a mouseover event of a visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Acura automobile in an item list. As shown in the additional information block a set of items is shown as being related to the item represented by the visual indicator e.g. various Acura automobiles . In this case however the items shown in the additional information block have been filtered based on geographical proximity information derived from the user account. In this case the zip code of the user from the user account information see item in is used to filter the items displayed in the additional information block so that only the items that are most geographically proximate to the user are shown. In this manner user specific information is displayed in the additional information block . As described herein other user specific information can be used to generate a user specific additional information block . Also the additional information block can show related sample items having been proximity filtered while also displaying a link to expand the list of related items to display more related items from a less proximate location. Note that the user is not required to explicitly indicate that they are interested in running a ZIP code constrained search. Whether this is done for the user or not can be based off of personalization historical transaction data for this user or other similar users or a random sample user to evaluate the efficacy of this type of distance limitation in efforts to present relevant items to users and optimize transaction revenue which in the case of automobiles is highly correlated to a distance from the user ZIP code which can be assumed or inferred .

Referring to another alternative embodiment is illustrated. In this embodiment a plurality of additional information blocks is shown in response to a plurality of mouseover events. As shown in a first additional information block is shown in response to a first mouseover i.e. a user positioning a pointing device to create a mouseover event of a first visual indicator shown in corresponding to an item e.g. an Acura automobile in an item list. The additional information displayed in first additional information block represents detailed information related to the item corresponding to the first mouseover event. In this example the item corresponding to the first mouseover event represents a category of items e.g. a category of Acura automobiles . Once the first additional information block is shown in response to the first mouseover event the user may mouseover one of the visual indicators displayed in the first additional information block to generate a second mouseover event. An example of this is shown in . In the user has performed a second mouseover of a second visual indicator displayed in the first additional information block the second visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Integra automobile in the Acura category . The second mouseover of the second visual indicator generates a second mouseover event. As a result of the second mouseover event a second additional information block is shown in response to the second mouseover event of the second visual indicator corresponding to an item e.g. an Integra automobile in the Acura category in an item list displayed in the first additional information block . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the same technique can be used to display a plurality of additional information blocks corresponding to a plurality of related mouseover events. In each case a deeper or more detailed set of additional information can be displayed in additional information blocks as the user performs subsequent mouseover actions. In the example of the items shown in the second information block have been filtered based on geographical proximity information derived from the user account. In this case the zip code of the user from the user account information see item in is used to filter the items displayed in the second information block so that only the items that are most geographically proximate to the user are shown. In this manner user specific information is displayed in the second information block . As described herein other user specific information can be used to generate a user specific second information block . Also the second information block can show related sample items having been proximity filtered while also displaying a link to expand the list of related items to display more related items from a less proximate location. Note that the user is not required to explicitly indicate that they are interested in running a ZIP code constrained search. In this manner various embodiments receive a first mouseover event corresponding to a first visual indicator generate a first additional information block corresponding to an item represented by the first visual indicator in response to the first mouseover event receive a second mouseover event corresponding to a second visual indicator displayed in the first additional information block and generate a second additional information block with user specific information and corresponding to an item represented by the second visual indicator in response to the second mouseover event.

Thus computer implemented system and method for displaying additional information corresponding to an item represented by a visual indicator in response to a mouseover event are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

