---

title: HIV protease inhibitors
abstract: Compounds useful for inhibiting HIV protease are disclosed. Methods of making the compounds, and their use as therapeutic agents, for example, in treating wild-type HIV and of multidrug-resistant strains of HIV, also are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07897635&OS=07897635&RS=07897635
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07897635
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061107
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 382 435 filed Mar. 6 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 489 and claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 383 628 filed Mar. 12 2002 and provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 433 627 filed Dec. 13 2002.

This invention was made with government support under research Grant No. GM53386 awarded by the National Institute of Health NIH . The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to compounds useful for inhibiting HIV protease enzymes. More particularly the present invention relates to HIV protease inhibitors methods of manufacturing the inhibitors and their use as therapeutic agents for example in treating wild type HIV and multidrug resistant strains of HIV.

It is well known that a wide range of diseases are caused by retroviruses. As presently understood acquired immunodeficiency syndrome AIDS is a disease of the immune system caused by the retrovirus HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus . According to estimates from the World Health Organization AIDS affects millions of people and is continuing to spread. In virtually all cases AIDS results in death of the infected individual.

Retroviruses HIV 1 and HIV 2 have been identified as a cause of AIDS. A retroviral protease is a proteolytic enzyme that participates in the maturation of new infectious virions in infected cells during the reproductive cycle. In a number of retroviruses for example HIV 1 and HIV 2 each have a region in their genome that codes for a gag protease. The gag protease is responsible for the correct proteolytic cleavage of the precursor proteins that are produced from the genome regions coding for the Group Specific Antigens gag .

The gag protease cleaves the major core protein p24 of HIV 1 and HIV 2 preferentially N terminally of proline residues for example in the divalent residues Phe Pro Leu Pro or Tyr Pro. It is a protease having a catalytically active aspartate residue in the active center i.e. an aspartate protease. During cleavage the structural proteins of the virus core are liberated. The gag protease itself is a component of a precursor protein encoded by the pol genome region of HIV 1 and HIV 2 which also contain regions for the reverse transcriptase and integrase and is thought to be cleaved by autoproteolysis.

Retroviral protease is a critical enzyme in the retroviral replication process. Propagation of a retrovirus such as HIV can be impeded by exposing the virus to a retroviral protease inhibitor. As used herein protease inhibitor refers to compounds that inhibit proteases of viral origin and that are useful in the prophylaxis or treatment of viral infections caused by retroviruses such as HIV in mammals both human and nonhuman. Protease inhibitors perform at the final stage of viral replication and prevent HIV from making new copies of itself by interfering with the HIV protease enzyme. As a result the new copies of HIV are not able to infect new cells.

Retroviral protease inhibition typically involves a transition state mimetic whereby the retroviral protease is exposed to a compound that binds typically in a reversible manner to the enzyme in competition with the gag and gag pol proteins to inhibit specific processing of structural proteins and the release of retroviral protease itself. In this manner retroviral replication proteases can be effectively inhibited.

Several classes of compounds for inhibition of proteases including HIV protease have been proposed. Such compounds include hydroxyethylamine isosteres reduced amide isosteres and nonpeptide isosteres. See for example EP 0 346 847 EP 0 342 541 Roberts et al. Rational Design of Peptide Based Proteinase Inhibitors Science 248 358 1990 Erickson et al. Design Activity and 2.8 Crystal Structure of a C2 Symmetric Inhibitor Complexed to HIV 1 Protease Science 249 527 1990 and S. Thaisrivongs Structure Based Design of Non Peptide HIV Protease Inhibitors 35th Annual Buffalo Medicinal Chemistry Meeting State University of New York at Buffalo Buffalo N.Y. May 1994. Also see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 008 228 6 100 277 and 6 245 806.

Some antiviral compounds that act as inhibitors of HIV replication are effective agents in the treatment of AIDS and similar diseases e.g. azidothymidine or AZT. WO 99 67254 contains a discussion of AIDS and HIV protease inhibitors and is incorporated herein by reference. However a typical problem associated with retroviral protease inhibitors like HIV protease inhibitors has been the development of strains of the virus resistant to the inhibitor. The present invention provides nonpeptidic compounds that are effective inhibitors of HIV protease and are useful in the treatment of AIDS or HIV infections including multidrug resistant strains of HIV.

The present invention is directed to a novel class of highly potent HIV protease inhibitors. This class of compounds is useful in the treatment of HIV infection. Protease inhibitors of this new class of compounds have been synthesized and tested for efficacy.

These compounds include but are not limited to those having the following structural components a compounds containing a lactam at R including 5 6 and 7 membered lactams b compounds containing an extension of the Rlactam via a fused or spirocyclic ring system especially systems containing basic amine substituents and hydroxymethyl substituents for increased binding affinity for HIV protease c compounds containing various Rgroups including isobutyl lactams urethanes furans pyrans pyrrolidines and piperidines as well as fused or spirocyclic ring systems extending from the above mentioned moieties at the Rposition d compounds having an Rgroup such as bistetrahydrofuran or a fused cyclopentyl tetrahydrofuran as well as other bicyclic ring systems disclosed herein. A judicious selection of R R R and Rgroups provides compounds having excellent inhibitor properties including in vitro potency in vivo potency and oral bioavailability.

Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl CalkyleneN R heterocycloalkyl NH NHBoc Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl 

or Rand Rare taken together to form either an optionally substituted monocyclic or bicyclic aliphatic ring system or an optionally substituted macrocyclic ring system containing twelve to twenty atoms including one to three heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydro and Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl optionally substituted with C O aryl or Calkylenearyl 

A and B independently are a five six or seven membered aliphatic ring wherein at least one ring contains one or two of the moiety X 

C is a five or six membered aliphatic ring containing one to three of the moiety X and optionally substituted with oxo 

Rand R independently are selected from the group consisting of hydro OH Calkyl CalkyleneOH and CalkyleneN R or Rand Rare taken together to form a five six or seven membered aliphatic ring optionally containing one or two of the moiety X 

Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl CalkyleneCheterocycloalkyl OR CalkyleneOR N R SR halo nitro CHO cyano NC C O R OC O R C O OR C O N R CH NOH CH CHCHOH N R COR and CalkyleneN R or two Rgroups are taken together to form a five six or seven membered aliphatic ring optionally containing one or two of the moiety X 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydro Calkyl Calkenyl aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl THP Ts Boc and Cheterocycloalkyl 

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a potent HIV protease inhibitor useful in the treatment of HIV and AIDS particularly in the treatment of wild type HIV and multidrug resistant strains of HIV. The compounds of structural formula I have demonstrated significant HIV protease inhibition activity.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method of treating mammalian HIV infections using a retroviral protease inhibitor which is effective in preventing the replication of retroviruses in vitro or in vivo. A present protease inhibitor can be used alone or in combination with a a second protease inhibitor b another antiviral agent or c both a and b .

Still another aspect of the present invention is to provide pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more compounds of structural formula I to use of the compounds and compositions containing the compounds in the therapeutic treatment of a disease or disorder and to methods of preparing the compounds of structural formula I and intermediates involved in the synthesis thereof.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method of inhibiting the protease of a multidrug resistant retrovirus in a mammal infected with the retrovirus said method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds of structural formula I to the mammal to inhibit proliferation of the retrovirus.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a kit for the treatment of HIV or AIDS comprising a compound of structural formula I or a composition containing the same packaged with instructions for administration of the compound or composition to treat HIV or AIDS.

Yet another aspect of the present invention is to provide an article of manufacture for human pharmaceutical use comprising a a package insert b a container and either c1 a packaged composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and a second pharmaceutical drug or c2 a packaged composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and a packaged composition comprising a second pharmaceutical drug. The second pharmaceutical drug typically is useful in the treatment of HIV or AIDS.

The above and other aspects and advantages of the present invention are set forth in the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

Retroviral protease is a critical enzyme in the retroviral replication process. Propagation of a retrovirus such as HIV can be impeded by exposing the virus to a retroviral protease inhibitor. The present invention is directed to compounds of structural formula I the inhibition of HIV protease the prevention or treatment of infection by HIV and the treatment of AIDS. In particular the present invention is directed to compounds that treat multidrug resistant strains of HIV.

Several protease inhibitors currently are available commercially including saquinavir also known as INVIRASE FORTOVASE and Ro31 8959 nelfinavir also known as VIRACEPT amprenavir also known as AGENERASE VX 478 and 141W94 indinavir also known as CRIXIVAN L 735 524 and MK 639 ritonavir also known as NORVIR and ABT 538 and lopinavir also known as ALUVIRAN and ABT 378 . All of the above compounds suffer from an inability to treat multidrug resistant strains of HIV.

Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl CalkyleneN R heterocycloalkyl NH NHBoc Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl 

or Rand Rare taken together to form either an optionally substituted monocyclic or bicyclic aliphatic ring system or an optionally substituted macrocyclic ring system containing twelve to twenty atoms including one to three heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydro and Calkyleneheterocycloalkyl optionally substituted with C O aryl or Calkylenearyl 

A and B independently are five six or seven membered aliphatic ring wherein at least one ring contains one or two of the moiety X 

C is a five or six membered aliphatic ring containing one to three of the moiety X and optionally substituted with oxo 

Rand R independently are selected from the group consisting of hydro OH Calkyl CalkyleneOH and CalkyleneN R or Rand Rare taken together to form a five six or seven membered aliphatic ring optionally containing one or two of the moiety X 

Ris selected from the group consisting of Calkyl Calkenyl CalkyleneCheterocycloalkyl OR CalkyleneOR N R SR halo nitro CHO cyano NC C O R OC O R C O OR C O N R CH NOH CH CHCHOH N R COR and CalkyleneN R or two Rgroups are taken together to form a five six or seven membered aliphatic ring optionally containing one or two of the moiety X 

Ris selected from the group consisting of hydro Calkyl Calkenyl aryl heteroaryl Ccycloalkyl THP Ts Boc and Cheterocycloalkyl 

The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions useful for inhibiting HIV protease said compositions comprising a compound of structural formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These pharmaceutical compositions are useful for treating infection by HIV or for treating AIDS or ARC. The present invention also is directed to methods of inhibiting HIV protease methods of treating infection by HIV and methods of treating AIDS or ARC comprising administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I or a composition containing a compound of structural formula I to an individual in need thereof.

Additionally the present invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of structural formula I and an AIDS treatment agent selected from the group consisting of a an AIDS antiviral agent b an antiinfective agent c an immunomodulator and d mixtures thereof. The compound of structural formula I and the AIDS treatment agent can be packaged separately or together and administered simultaneously or sequentially.

In preferred embodiments of a compound of structural formula I Ris selected from the group consisting of

and Ris selected from the group consisting of CalkyleneOR N R Calkyl halo nitro CalkyleneCheterocycloalkyl CHO CH NOH and OR or two Rgroups are taken together with the carbons to which they are attached to form

As used herein the term alkyl includes straight chained and branched hydrocarbon groups containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. The hydrocarbon group can contain 1 to 20 carbon atoms typically methyl ethyl and straight chain and branched propyl and butyl groups. The term alkyl includes bridged alkyl i.e. a Cbicyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon group for example norbornyl adamantyl bicyclo 2.2.2 octyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl bicyclo 3.2.1 octyl or decahydronaphthyl. Alkyl groups can be substituted for example with hydroxy OH halogen aryl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl amino N R groups and sulfonyl SOR groups.

The term alkenyl is defined similarly as alkyl except an alkenyl group contains at least one carbon carbon double bond.

The term alkylene is defined as an alkyl group having a substituent. For example the term CalkyleneOH refers to an alkyl group containing one to three carbon atoms and substituted with a hydroxy group.

The term cycloalkyl is defined as a cyclic Chydrocarbon group e.g. cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclohexyl and cyclopentyl. Heterocycloalkyl is defined similarly as cycloalkyl except the ring contains one to three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of oxygen nitrogen and sulfur. Cycloalkyl and heterocycloalkyl groups can be saturated or partially unsaturated ring systems substituted with for example one to three groups independently selected from Calkyl CalkyleneOH C O NH NH oxo O aryl trifluoroethanoyl and OH.

The term macrocyclic is defined as an optionally substituted ring system containing ten to twenty atoms optionally including up to four heteroatoms selected from oxygen sulfur SO SO and N R . Atoms present in an aryl or heteroaryl ring can contribute to the atoms of the macrocyclic ring.

The term aryl alone or in combination is defined as a monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic group preferably a monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic group e.g. phenyl or naphthyl. Unless otherwise indicated an aryl group can be unsubstituted or substituted for example with one or more and in particular one to four halo CH NOH Calkyl Calkenyl OCF NO CN NC N R OR COR C O N R C O R N R COR N R C O OR CalkyleneOR and SR wherein R is selected from the group consisting of hydro Calkyl Calkenyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl SOR OTs NHBoc OTHP and Calkyl substituted with halo hydroxy aryl heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl N R or SOR and Ris as previously defined. Exemplary aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl tetrahydronaphthyl chlorophenyl methylphenyl methoxyphenyl trifluoromethylphenyl nitrophenyl hydroxyphenyl and the like. The terms arylCalkyl and heteroarylCalkyl are defined as an aryl or heteroaryl group having a Calkyl substituent.

The term heteroaryl is defined herein as a monocyclic or bicyclic ring system containing one or two aromatic rings and containing at least one nitrogen oxygen or sulfur atom in an aromatic ring and which can be unsubstituted or substituted for example with one or more and in particular one to four substituents for example hydrogen Calkyl Calkoxy aryl N R OR and halo wherein Ris as previously defined. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to thienyl furyl pyridyl oxazolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl indolyl triazolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl imidizolyl benzothiazolyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl thiazolyl and thiadiazolyl.

The carbon atom content of hydrocarbon containing moieties is indicated by a subscript designating the minimum and maximum number of carbon atoms in the moiety e.g. Calkyl refers to an alkyl group having one to six carbon atoms inclusive.

When no substituent is indicated as attached to a carbon atom on a ring it is understood that the carbon atom contains the appropriate number of hydrogen atoms. In addition when no substituent is indicated as attached to a carbonyl group or a nitrogen atom for example the substituent is understood to be hydrogen e.g. 

The notation N R wherein x represents an alpha or numeric character such as for example R R R R and the like is used to denote two Rgroups attached to a common nitrogen atom. When used in such notation the Rgroup can be the same or different and is selected from the group as defined by the Rgroup.

The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions containing one or more compounds of structural formula I to use of the compounds and compositions containing the compounds in therapeutic treatment of a disease or disorder and to methods of preparing the compounds and intermediates involved in the synthesis of the compounds of structural formula I .

As used herein the term composition is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from admixing of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts.

The present invention includes all possible stereoisomers and geometric isomers of compounds of structural formula I . The present invention includes not only racemic compounds but also the optically active isomers as well. When a compound of structural formula I is desired as a single enantiomer it can be obtained either by resolution of the final product or by stereospecific synthesis from either isomerically pure starting material or use of a chiral auxiliary reagent for example see Z. Ma et al. 8 6 pages 883 888 1997 . Resolution of the final product an intermediate or a starting material can be achieved by any suitable method known in the art. Additionally in situations where tautomers of the compounds of structural formula I are possible the present invention is intended to include all tautomeric forms of the compounds. As demonstrated hereafter specific stereoisomers can exhibit an exceptional ability to inhibit HIV protease and can be used alone or in combination with other HIV and AIDS therapies.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers compounds of structural formula I which contain acidic moieties and form salts with suitable cations. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations include alkali metal e.g. sodium or potassium and alkaline earth metal e.g. calcium or magnesium cations. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of structural formula I which contain a basic center are acid addition salts formed with pharmaceutically acceptable acids. Examples include the hydrochloride hydrobromide sulfate or bisulfate phosphate or hydrogen phosphate acetate benzoate succinate fumarate maleate lactate citrate tartrate gluconate methanesulfonate benzene sulfonate and p toluenesulfonate salts. In light of the foregoing any reference to compounds of the present invention appearing herein is intended to include compounds of structural formula I as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs and solvates thereof.

The term prodrug as used herein refers to compounds that are rapidly transformed in vivo to a compound having structural formula I for example by hydrolysis. Prodrug design is discussed generally in Hardma et al. Eds. 9th ed. pp. 11 16 1996 . A thorough discussion is provided in Higuchi et al. Vol. 14 ASCD Symposium Series and in Roche ed. American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 . Typically administration of a drug is followed by elimination from the body or some biotransformation whereby the biological activity of the drug is reduced or eliminated. Alternatively a biotransformation process can lead to a metabolic by product which is itself more or equally active compared to the drug initially administered. Increased understanding of these biotransformation processes permits the design of so called prodrugs which following a biotransformation become more physiologically active in their altered state. Prodrugs therefore encompass compounds that are converted to pharmacologically active metabolites.

To illustrate prodrugs can be converted into a pharmacologically active form through hydrolysis of for example an ester or amide linkage thereby introducing or exposing a functional group on the resultant product. The prodrugs can be designed to react with an endogenous compound to form a water soluble conjugate that further enhances the pharmacological properties of the compound for example increased circulatory half life. Alternatively prodrugs can be designed to undergo covalent modification on a functional group with for example glucuronic acid sulfate glutathione an amino acid or acetate. The resulting conjugate can be inactivated and excreted in the urine or rendered more potent than the parent compound. High molecular weight conjugates also can be excreted into the bile subjected to enzymatic cleavage and released back into the circulation thereby effectively increasing the biological half life of the originally administered compound.

The compounds of the present invention can be therapeutically administered as the neat chemical but it is preferable to administer compounds of structural formula I as a pharmaceutical composition or formulation. Accordingly the present invention further provides for pharmaceutical formulations comprising a compound of structural formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and optionally other therapeutic and or prophylactic ingredients. The carriers are acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

Inhibition of HIV protease typically is measured using a dose response assay in which a sensitive assay system is contacted with a compound of interest over a range of concentrations at which no or minimal effect is observed through higher concentrations at which partial effect is observed to saturating concentrations at which a maximum effect is observed. Assays of the dose response effect of inhibitor compounds can be described as a curve expressing a degree of inhibition as a function of concentration. The curve theoretically passes through a point at which the concentration is sufficient to reduce activity of the HIV protease enzyme to a level that is 50 that of the difference between minimal and maximal enzyme activity in the assay. This concentration is defined as the Inhibitory Concentration 50 or IC.

Comparisons of the efficacy of inhibitors often are provided with reference to comparative ICvalues wherein a higher ICvalue indicates that the test compound is less potent and a lower ICvalue indicates that the compound is more potent than a reference compound. Compounds useful for the method of the present invention demonstrate an ICvalue of less than 100 M when measured using the dose response assay. Preferred compounds demonstrate an ICvalue of less than 50 M. More preferred compounds demonstrate an ICvalue of less than 5 M. Still more preferred compounds for the present invention demonstrate an ICvalue of less than 3 M 3000 nM less than 0.5 M 500 nM and less than 0.1 M 100 nM for example 5 pM to 0.1 nM.

Compounds and pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use in the present invention include those wherein the active ingredient is administered in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. More specifically a therapeutically effective amount means an amount effective to inhibit development of or to alleviate the existing symptoms of the subject being treated. Determination of the effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

A therapeutically effective dose refers to that amount of the compound that results in achieving the desired effect. Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals e.g. for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index which is expressed as the ratio of LDto ED. Compounds that exhibit high therapeutic indices i.e. a toxic dose that is substantially higher than the effective dose are preferred. The data obtained can be used in formulating a dosage range for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds preferably lies within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized.

The term container means any receptacle and closure therefore suitable for storing shipping dispensing and or handling a pharmaceutical product.

The term insert means information accompanying a product that provides a description of how to administer the product along with the safety and efficacy data required to allow the physician pharmacist and patient to make an informed decision regarding use of the product. The package insert generally is regarded as the label for a pharmaceutical product.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient s condition. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide plasma levels of the active moiety which are sufficient to maintain the therapeutic effects.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be formulated to include a compound of structural formula I and one or more additional agents useful in the treatment of HIV and AIDS. For example compounds of the present invention can be effectively administered at a period of preexposure and or postexposure in combination with a therapeutically effective amount of an AIDS antiviral immunomodulator antiinfective or vaccine such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 245 806 incorporated herein by reference.

As appreciated by persons skilled in the art reference herein to treatment extends to prophylaxis as well as to treatment of established diseases or symptoms. It is further appreciated that the amount of a compound of the invention required for use in treatment varies with the nature of the condition being treated and with the age and the condition of the patient and is ultimately determined by the attendant physician or veterinarian.

In general however doses employed for adult human treatment typically are in the range of 0.001 mg kg to about 100 mg kg per day. The desired dose can be administered in a single dose or as multiple doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as two three four or more sub doses per day. In practice the physician determines the actual dosing regimen which is most suitable for an individual patient and the dosage varies with the age weight and response of the particular patient. The above dosages are exemplary of the average case but there can be individual instances in which higher or lower dosages are merited and such are within the scope of the present invention.

The terms administration of and administering a compound should be understood to mean providing a compound of the invention or a prodrug of a compound of the invention to an individual in need of treatment.

Thus in accordance with important features of the present invention a method of treating and a pharmaceutical composition for treating HIV infection and AIDS are provided. The treatment involves administering to a patient in need of such treatment a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutical carrier a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I and an optional agent useful in the treatment of HIV or AIDS.

Compounds and compositions of the present invention can be administered in a standard manner for the treatment of the indicated diseases such as orally parenterally transmucosally e.g. sublingually or via buccal administration topically transdermally rectally via inhalation e.g. nasal or deep lung inhalation . Parenteral administration includes but is not limited to intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal subcutaneous intramuscular intrathecal and intraarticular. Parenteral administration also can be accomplished using a high pressure technique like POWDERJECT .

Such preparations also can be formulated as suppositories e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides. Compositions for inhalation typically can be provided in the form of a solution suspension or emulsion that can be administered as a dry powder or in the form of an aerosol using a conventional propellant such as dichlorodifluoromethane or trichlorofluoromethane. Typical topical and transdermal formulations comprise conventional aqueous or nonaqueous vehicles such as eye drops creams ointments lotions and pastes or are in the form of a medicated plaster patch or membrane.

Additionally compositions of the present invention can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be in the form of suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulation agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

A composition of the present invention also can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Accordingly the compounds of the invention can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials e.g. an emulsion in an acceptable oil ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives e.g. a sparingly soluble salt .

For veterinary use a compound of formula I or a nontoxic salt thereof is administered as a suitably acceptable formulation in accordance with normal veterinary practice. The veterinarian can readily determine the dosing regimen and route of administration that is most appropriate for a particular animal.

As previously stated the HIV protease inhibitors of the present invention can be administered as the sole active agent or they can be used in combination with a second active agent which is effective against retroviruses such as HIV 1. Such second active agents include but are not limited to other HIV protease inhibitors various nucleoside analogs nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors antivirals immunomodulators antiinfectives tat antagonists and glycosidase inhibitors. Numerous examples of such second active agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 100 277 and 6 245 806 both incorporated herein by reference and include but are not limited to Ro 31 859 KNI 272 AZT DDI DDC 3TC D4T PMEA Ro 5 3335 Ro 24 7429 indinavir ritonavir saquinavir nelfinavir amprenavir abacavir castanospremine castanospermine 6 butryl ester N butyl 1 deoxynojirimycin N butyl 1 deoxynojirimycin per butryl ester 097 acemannan acyclovir AD 439 AD 519 adefovir clipivoxil AL 721 alpha interferon ansamycin beta fluoro ddA BMS 232623 BMS 234475 CI 1012 cidofovir delaviridine EL 10 efaviren famciclovir FTC hypericin Compound Q ISIS 2922 lobucavir nevirapine novapren peptide T octapeptide PNU 140690 probacol stavudine valaciclovir virazole zalcitabine ABT 378 bropirimine gamma interferon interleukin 2 TNF etanercept infliximab fluconalzole piritrexim trimetrexate daunorubicin leukotriene B4 receptor antagonist and analogs and prodrugs thereof.

The protease inhibitors of the present invention and the second active agent can be formulated as separate compositions which are administered at substantially the same time i.e. simultaneously or sequentially or the therapeutic agents can be administered from a single composition such that all of the active agents are present in the host in a therapeutically effective amount. Alternatively the therapeutic agents can be administered to the host at different times i.e. separately such that only one or two active agents at a time are present in the host in a therapeutically effective amount.

The compounds of structural formula I are effective antiviral compounds and in particular are effective retroviral inhibitors. Thus the subject compounds are effective HIV protease inhibitors. The subject compounds of the present invention also inhibit other retroviruses such as other lentiviruses in particular other strains of HIV e.g. HIV 2 human T cell leukemia virus rous sarcoma virus simian immunodeficiency virus feline leukemia virus feline immunodeficiency virus and the like. The compounds of structural formula I therefore are effective in the treatment and or prophylaxis of retroviral infections.

In addition the compounds of structural formula I are effective in preventing the growth of retroviruses in a solution. Both human and animal cell cultures such as T lymphocyte cultures are utilized for a variety of purposes such as research and diagnostic procedures including calibrators and controls. Prior to and during the growth and storage of a cell culture the present inhibitors can be added to a cell culture medium at an effective concentration to prevent the unexpected or undesired replication of a retrovirus that may inadvertently or unknowingly be present in the cell culture. For example the virus may be present originally in the cell culture because HIV is known to be present in human T lymphocytes long before it is detectable in blood or through exposure to the virus. This use of the present inhibitors prevents the unknowing or inadvertent exposure of a potentially lethal retrovirus to a researcher or clinician.

The present invention therefore provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of structural formula I together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor. The present invention also provides a process of preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising mixing a compound of formula I together with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier therefor. Further provided are articles of manufacture comprising a compound of structural formula I and a second pharmaceutical drug packaged separately or together and an insert having instructions for using the active agents.

Specific nonlimiting examples of compounds of structural formula I are provided below the syntheses of which were performed in accordance with the procedures set forth hereafter.

Generally compounds of structural formula I can be prepared according to the synthetic schemes depicted herein. In these synthetic schemes it is understood in the art that protecting groups can be employed where necessary in accordance with general principles of synthetic chemistry. These protecting groups are removed in the final steps of the synthesis under basic acidic or hydrogenolytic conditions which are readily apparent to those skilled in the art. By employing appropriate manipulation and protection of chemical functionalities synthesis of compounds of structural formula I not specifically set forth herein can be accomplished by methods analogous to the scheme set forth herein.

Compounds of the present invention were tested for an ability to inhibit HIV 1 protease by the test method set forth below. The data set forth hereafter in the form of ICvalues shows that compounds of the present invention are potent inhibitors of HIV protease.

The HIV 1 protease gene was subcloned into the pET30a vector Novagen and then transformed into BL21 dE3 pLysS cells for protein expression. Protein expression and purification were followed according to Tang s procedure Hong et al. 1996 35 10627 10633 . Accumulation of protein has resulted in cellular inclusion bodies. The cell lysates analyzed by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed the expected 11 kDa major band. The inclusion body containing some bacterial proteins was thoroughly washed by using TRITON X 100 solubilized in 8M urea and passed through the Q sepharose column to remove the bacterial proteins which interfered with subsequent refolding steps. HIV 1 protease was refolded from the urea to an active form by dialysis. As a final step gel filtration chromatography was used to remove impurities after refolding. Activities of purified HIV 1 protease were examined using a fluorogenic substrate 2 aminobenzoyl Thr Ile Nle Phe pNO2 Gln Arg NH2 Novabiochem . Kinetic measurements of the cleavage of anthranilyl fluorogenic substrate by HIV 1 protease showed typical Michaelis Menten behavior. The Michaelis constant for the substrate is K 4.5 M. Using the first rate equation kis calculated. In the condition of S

Key a Thiourea Rose Bengal O MeOH hv 8 h b AcO Py DMAP CHCl 1 hour. 42 for two steps c NaN acetyl cholinesterase type V1 S phosphonate buffer 0.5 M pH 7.0 12 hours 70 d TBSCl imidazole DMF 30 min e KCO MeOH 20 min. 94 for two steps f NBS ethyl vinyl ether 45 C. to 23 C. 12 hours g n BuSnH AIBN benzene reflux 4 hours h BF.OEt EtSiH CHCl 0 C. 10 min. i 45 aq. HF CHCN 15 min. j DSC EtN CHCN 2 hours 47 for two steps.

A cold solution of cyclopentadiene 16 mL thiourea 10 g and Rose Bengal 300 mg in methanol MeOH 1000 mL was purged with oxygen and irradiated with a 75 Watt halogen lamp. After 8 hours the solution was held at room temperature in the absence of light for 12 hours. Solvents were evaporated under reduced pressure then MeOH 200 mL was added. After filtering the filtrate was concentrated and the crude product was passed through a silica gel column to provide a crude diol.

The crude diol acetic anhydride AcO 58.8 g 0.57 moles pyridine 77 g 1.15 moles and DMAP 4 dimethylaminopyridine 200 mg in methylene chloride CHCl 1000 mL were stirred for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was washed with water 2 300 mL then concentrated. The resulting crude diacetate was purified by silica gel chromatography to obtain 17.9 g 42 two steps of the diacetate. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 6.07 m 2H 5.5 m 2H 2.85 m 1H 2.05 s 6H 1.7 m 1H .

The diacetate 4.1 g 22.8 mmol sodium azide NaN 15 mg and acetyl cholinesterase 2.8 mg type VI S from Electric Eel Sigma Inc. were slowly stirred in phosphate buffer 0.5 M pH 7.0 for 12 hours. Then the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc EtOAc 3 200 mL washed with brine 200 mL and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography to obtain 2.2 g 70 of compound 1 59.35 89 ee .

The alcohol 200 mg 1.48 mmol tert butyldimethylsilanyl chloride TBSCl 267 mg 1.48 mmol and imidazole 191 mg 2.86 mmol in dimethylformamide DMF 10 mL were stirred for 30 minutes. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and washed several times with water 2 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate NaSO and the solvents were evaporated in vacuo. Purification of the crude product by silica gel chromatography provided the TBS ether as a colorless liquid. The TBS ether and potassium carbonate KCO 323 mg 2.34 mmol in MeOH 10 mL were stirred for 20 minutes at room temperature. The MeOH was evaporated and the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL dried over anhydrous NaSO and concentrated under reduced pressure. Silica gel chromatographic purification of the crude product provided compound 2 300 mg 94 two steps as a colorless oil. NMR CDCl 200 MHz 5.92 m 2H 4.6 m 2H 2.68 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.49 m 1H 0.90 s 9H 0.09 s 6H .

A solution of compound 2 300 mg 1.4 mmol and N bromosuccinimide NBS 248 mg 1.4 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 45 C. was added to ethyl vinyl ether 151 mg 2.1 mmol . The resulting mixture was warmed to room temperature and after 12 hours treated with aq. ammonium chloride NHCl 10 mL then washed with brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO then concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude product by silica gel chromatography provided a bromoethoxy compound 468 mg as colorless liquid.

The bromoethoxy compound 464 mg 1.18 mmol tri n butyltin hydride nBuSnH 412 mg 1.41 mmol and AIBN 10 mg in benzene 5 mL were refluxed for 4 hours. The reaction mixture then was cooled to room temperature and the crude product was chromatographed on silica gel to obtain a bicyclic ether 300 mg as a viscous liquid.

To the bicyclic ether and triethylsilane EtSiH 331 mg 2.85 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 0 C. was added boron trifluoride etherate BF.OEt 2.85 mmol . The reaction was complete in 10 minutes. Sodium bicarbonate NaHCO 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 2 10 mL . The combined extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel chromatography provided compound 3 as a colorless liquid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.39 m 1H 4.06 m 1H 3.88 m 1H 3.78 m 1H 2.53 m 1H 2.1 1.9 m 3H 1.72 m 1H 1.58 m 1H 1.42 m 1H 0.91 s 9H 0.03 s 6H .

Ether 3 175 mg 0.72 mmol HF 45 0.2 mL and CHCN 2 mL were stirred in a plastic container for 15 minutes. Aq. NaHCO 5 mL was added to the mixture and the contents of the flask were extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layer was washed with brine 10 mL to obtain the crude alcohol which was purified by silica gel chromatography. 14.67 c 1.85 CHCl. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 4.36 dt 1H J 1.43 Hz 6.4 Hz 4.22 m 1H 3.98 m 1H 3.58 m 1H 2.71 m 1H 2.5 s 1H 2.2 1.5 m 6H .

The above alcohol 73 mg 609 mmol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 187 mg 0.731 mmol and triethylamine EtN 92 mg 0.913 mmol in CHCN 2 mL were stirred for 12 hours. The solvents were evaporated and the crude alcohol was purified by silica gel chromatography to provide carbonate 4 91 mg 47 two steps .

Key a NBS ethyl vinyl ether 45 C. to 23 C. 12 hours b n BuSnH AIBN benzene reflux 4 hours c BFOEt EtSiH CHCl 0 C. 10 min. 58 for three steps d KCO MeOH 90 min and j DSC EtN CHCN 12 hours 92 for two steps.

To alcohol 1 199 mg 1.4 mmol and N bromosuccinimide 249 mg 1.4 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at 45 C. was added ethyl vinyl ether 152 mg 2.11 mmol using the same reaction conditions as in the synthesis of compound 3 to obtain a bromo compound 332 mg . H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 6.0 m 2H 5.5 m 1H 4.7 m 2H 3.6 m 2H 3.35 d 2H J 5.3 Hz 2.8 m 1H 2.0 s 3H 1.8 m 1H 1.2 t 3H J 7 Hz .

The bromo compound 332 mg 1.13 mmol nBuSnH 395 mg 1.35 mmol and 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile AIBN 20 mg in toluene were refluxed as described in the synthesis of compound 3 to obtain a bicyclic ether 228 mg as a colorless oil.

To the bicyclic ether 228 mg 1.065 mmol and EtSiH 370 mg 3.196 mmol in CHCl 5 mL at room temperature was added BF.OEt 450 mg 3.196 mmol following the same reaction conditions as described in the synthesis of compound 3 to obtain compound 5 140 mg 58 three steps as an oil. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 5 m 1H 4.5 m 1H 3.95 m 1H 3.74 m 1H 2.7 m 1H 2.1 m 3H 2 s 3H 1.5 1.9 m 3H .

Compound 5 133 mg 0.78 mmol and KCO 215 mg 1.56 mmol in MeOH 5 mL were stirred for 1.5 hours. The reaction mixture then was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed several times with water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure at 30 C. to obtain a volatile alcohol. 8.6 c 0.7 CHCl.

The alcohol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 240 mg 0.938 mmol and EtN 157 mg 1.56 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL were stirred for 12 hours. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with brine 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by a silica gel column to obtain compound 6 195 mg 92 two steps as an oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 5.1 m 1H 4.48 m 1H 3.95 m 1H 2.0 2.3 m 4H 1.8 m 2H .

Key a N iodosuccinimide propargyl alcohol CHCl 0 23 C. 2 hours 92 b Cobaloxime cat NaBH EtOH 50 C. 2 hours 73 or BuSnH AIBN toluene reflux 1 hour 76 c O CHClMeOH 30 min MeS 78 C. to 23 C. 30 min d NaBH EtOH 0 C. 2 hours 75 e immobilized lipase 30 AcO DME 23 C. 42 f DSC EtN CHCN 24 hours 75 g KCO MeOH 1 h h DSC EtN CHCN 1 hour 73 for two steps.

To a stirred ice cold suspension of 15 g 66.6 mmol of N iodosuccinimide in 150 mL of CHClwas added a mixture of dihydrofuran 66.6 mmol 4.67 g 5.1 mL and propargyl alcohol 100 mmol 5.0 g 5.2 mL in 50 mL of CHClover 20 min. After warming to 24 C. with stirring over 2 hours 200 mL of water was added and the stirring was continued for 1 hour. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer extracted with 2 100 mL of CHCl. The combined organic extracts were washed with a brine solution containing a small amount of sodium thiosulfate NaSO 70 mg dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. Chromatography over silica gel using 30 EtOAc in hexane yielded 15.4 g 92 of iodoether 10 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 5.4 br s 1H 4.0 4.3 m 5H 2.7 m 1H 2.48 br s 1H 2.25 m 1H IR neat 2956 2180 1621 1440 cm.

To a refluxing solution of tributyltin hydride 20.7 mL 77 mmol containing AIBN 100 mg in toluene 200 mL was added a solution of 15.4 g 61 mmol of iodotetrahydrofuran 10 in toluene 50 mL dropwise over a one hour period. The resulting mixture was stirred at reflux for an additional 4 hours monitored by TLC . The mixture then was cooled to 23 C. and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was partitioned between petroleum ether and acetonitrile 200 mL of each and the acetonitrile lower layer was concentrated. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel using 10 EtOAc in hexane as the eluent to provide the product 11 5.84 g 76 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 5.7 d 1H J 4.9 Hz 4.9 5.1 m 2H 4.3 4.6 m 2H 3.7 4.0 m 2H 3.3 m 1H 1.8 2.2 m 2H IR neat 2970 1645 1430 cm.

To a solution of iodoether 10 6.4 g 25.4 mmol in 95 ethanol 80 mL was added solid sodium borohydride NaBH 1.06 g 28 mmol and 10 N sodium hydroxide NaOH 2.6 ml 26 mmol . The solution was flushed with Nand several portions of finely powered cobaloxime 611 mg 1.5 mmol were added over a one hour period at 50 C. bath temperature 65 C. . The resulting mixture was stirred for an additional hour then the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was diluted with brine and the mixture was thoroughly extracted with ether 3 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water then brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Evaporation of the solvent gave a residue which was chromatographed over silica gel to provide the product 11 2.3 g 73 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 5.7 d 1H J 4.9 Hz 4.9 5.1 m 2H 4.3 4.6 m 2H 3.7 4.0 m 2H 3.3 m 1H 1.8 2.2 m 2H IR neat 2970 1645 1430 cm MS 70 eV m z 126 m .

A stream of ozone was dispersed into a solution of compound 11 5.84 g 46.4 mmol in MeOH 150 mL and CHCl 150 mL at 78 C. for 30 min. The resulting blue solution was purged with nitrogen until colorless then quenched with 20 mL of dimethyl sulfide. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to 23 C. The mixture then was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford a crude ketone. The ketone was dissolved in ethanol 50 mL cooled to 0 C. and sodium borohydride 2.1 g 55.6 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 2 hours at 0 C. and then quenched with 10 aqueous citric acid 10 mL . The resulting mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc and brine. The layers were separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 2 100 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated carefully under reduced pressure. The resulting residue was chromatographed over silica gel using 30 EtOAc in hexane as the eluent to furnish 4.52 g 75 the racemic alcohol 12 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 5.7 d J 5.13 1H 4.45 dd J 6.8 14.6 1H 3.9 4.0 m 3H 3.65 dd 1H J 7 9.1 2.9 m 1H 2.3 m 1H 1.85 m 2H IR neat 2951 1640 1346 1210 cm MS 70 eV m z 131 m H .

Commercially available celite 521 4 g Aldrich was loaded on a Buchner funnel and washed successively with 50 mL of deionized water and 50 mL of 0.05 N phosphate buffer pH 7.0 Fisher Scientific . The washed celite then was added to a suspension of 1 g of Amano lipase 30 in 20 mL of 0.05 N phosphate buffer. The resulting slurry was spread on a glass dish and allowed to air dry at 23 C. for 48 hours weight 5.4 g water content about 2 by Fisher method .

To a stirred solution of racemic alcohol 12 2 g 15.4 mmol and AcO 4 g 42.4 mmol in 100 mL of DME ethylene glycol dimethyl ether was added 2.7 g about 25 by weight of lipase PS30 of immobilized Amano lipase and the resulting suspension was stirred at 23 C. The reaction was monitored by TLC and H NMR analysis until 50 conversion was attained. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filter cake was washed repeatedly with EtOAc. The combined filtrate was carefully concentrated in a rotary evaporator maintaining the bath temperature below 15 C. The residue was chromatographed over silica gel to provide 843 mg 42 of compound 13 95 ee 11.9 c 1.24 MeOH H NMR CDCl 5.7 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 4.45 dd 1H J 6.8 14.6 Hz 3.85 4.0 m 3H 3.65 dd 1H J 7.0 9.1 Hz 2.9 m 1H 2.3 m 1H 1.85 m 2H also 1.21 g of compound 14 after washing with 5 aqueous sodium carbonate 45 31.8 c 1.86 MeOH 1H NMR CDCl 5.7 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.2 dd 1H J 6.4 14.5 Hz 3.8 4.1 m 3H 3.75 dd 1H J 6.6 9.2 Hz 3.1 m 1H 2.1 s 3H 1.85 2.1 m 2H IR neat 2947 1750 1630 1338 1220 cm.

Compound 13 2 g 15.3 mmol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 4.76 g 18.5 mmol and triethylamine EtN 4.12 g 40.8 mmol in acetonitrile CHCN 50 mL were stirred for 24 hours. The reaction mixture then was diluted with EtOAc 100 ml washed several times with brine then dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure to provide crude compound 15 which was purified by column chromatography to obtain the active carbonate 15. Yield 3.1 g 75 m.p 128 130 C. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 5.74 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 5.26 m 1H 4 m 4H 3.1 m 1H 2.84 s 4H 1.88 2.2 m 2H .

Compound 14 500 mg 2.9 mmol and KCO 802 mg 5.8 mmol in MeOH 25 mL were stirred for 1 hour. The reaction mixture then was diluted with EtOAc 60 mL and washed several times with brine 50 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 40 mL and the combined extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by a silica gel column to obtain a bicyclic alcohol.

The bicyclic alcohol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 890 mg 3.48 mmol and EtN 585 mg 5.8 mmol were subjected to same conditions as in the preparation of compound 15 to provide compound 16 573 mg 73 two steps . 22.5 c 1.6 MeOH. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 5.76 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.25 m 1H 3.9 4.3 m 4H 3.14 m 1H 2.85 s 4H 1.9 2.2 m 2H .

To compound 17 430 mg 4 mmol in MeOH 10 mL at 0 C. was added NaBH 279 mg 8 mmol in one portion. After 15 min. the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed with brine 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSO then concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain an alcohol which was filtered through silica gel column then concentrated.

The above alcohol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 1.47 g 5.76 mmol and EtN 606 mg 6 mmol in CHCN 10 mL were stirred for 1 hour. The reaction mixture then was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and washed several times with water and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The crude product was purified by silica gel column to obtain compound 18 900 mg 90 two steps . This carbonate was unstable and was used immediately.

To compound 19 400 mg 3.7 mmol in MeOH 10 mL at 0 C. was added NaBH 236 mg 7.4 mmol in one portion following the conditions used in the preparation of compound 18 to obtain an alcohol that was filtered through a silica gel column then concentrated.

The alcohol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 1.4 g 5.5 mmol and EtN 606 mg 6 mmol in CHCN 10 mL were allowed to react under the same conditions used in the preparation of compound 18 to obtain compound 20 824 mg 88 two steps . This carbonate also was unstable and was used immediately.

Compound 21 250 mg 2.84 mmol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 799 mg 3.12 mmol and EtN 431 mg 4.27 mmol in CHCN 5 mL were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL washed with brine then concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain compound 22 595 mg 92 as a solid. M.P. 97 99 C.

Key a DHP CHCl 1.5 hours 63 b allyl magnesium bromide THF 0 C. 73 c 9 BBN THF 12 hours then MeOH HO NaOH 650 C. 1 h 68 d MsCl Py 12 hours e TSOH MeOH 30 min. 60 f DSC EtN CHCN 12 hours 40 .

Compound 24 1.13 g 13 mmol and dihydropyran DHP 1.42 g 16.9 mmol in CHCl 25 mL were stirred for 1.5 hours. Aq. NaHCO 10 mL was added and the reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 10 mL . The combined extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the crude product by silica gel column provided the THP protected hydroxyketone 540 mg 63 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 5.9 m 1H 5.1 m 2H 4.7 m 1H 3.9 m 2H 3.5 m 1H 2.1 2.5 m 2H 1.3 2.0 m 12H .

The ketone 500 mg 2.7 mmol in THF 10 mL was cooled to 0 C. and allyl magnesium bromide 5.4 mL 5.4 mmol was added dropwise. After 3 hours at room temperature the reaction mixture was treated with aq. NHCl 10 mL then diluted with EtOAc 20 mL . The organic layer was washed with brine and dried over anhydrous NaSO. Solvents were evaporated under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel column to obtain mixture of diastereomers 443 mg 73 as an oil.

The mixture 260 mg 1.15 mmol and 9 BBN 9 borabicyclo 3.3.1 nonane 9.2 mL 4.6 mmol 0.5M solution in THF at 0 C. were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. MeOH 0.3 mL hydrogen peroxide HO 2.5 mL 30 NaOH 7 mL 30 were heated at 65 C. for 1 hour. After cooling to room temperature the solvents were evaporated under reduced pressure and the crude product was purified by silica gel column to obtain compound 25 191 mg 68 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.7 m 1H 3.8 3.7 and 3.5 three m 5H 2.5 br s 2H 1.4 2 m 16H .

To the diol 25 170 mg 0.69 mmol and pyridine 1 mL was added methanesulfonyl chloride MsCl 103 mg 0.9 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 12 hours. Then the mixture was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and the organic layer was washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude cyclic ether was purified by silica gel column to obtain 111 mg 71 of the cyclic product. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.71 m 1H 3.95 m 4H 3.87 m 1H 1.6 2 m 16H .

To the above ether 110 mg 0.48 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added p toluenesulfonic acid TsOH 16 mg . After stirring for 30 min. the solvent was evaporated and the crude product was extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL and the organic layers were washed with brine 10 mL and concentrated. Purification by silica gel column provided the spiro alcohol 41 mg 60 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.1 m 1H 3.7 m 2H 1.5 2 m 10H .

The above spiro alcohol 27 mg 0.19 mmol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 52 mg 0.204 mmol EtN 25 mg 0.25 mmol in CHCN 5 mL were stirred for 12 hours following the same conditions as described for compound 22 to obtain compound 26 22 mg 40 . H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 4.7 m 1H 3.8 m 2H 2.8 s 4H 1.5 2.1 m 10H .

Key a COCl KOH water 2 hours b EtOH conc. HCl 12 hours 20 two steps c NaBH MeOH 3 hours a DSC EtN CHCN 12 hours.

To compound 27 2.42 g 20 mmol and potassium hydroxide KOH 40 5 mL in water 30 mL at 0 C. was added oxalyl chloride COCl 13 mL 20 After stirring for 2 hours the biphasic layer was placed in separating funnel. The organic layer was discarded and the aqueous layer was washed with ether 10 mL then acidified to pH 1 with 10 HCl 20 mL . The water then was evaporated under reduced pressure. The solid residue was extracted with hot ethanol EtOH 4 25 mL . The EtOH layer was concentrated to 20 mL and 0.2 mL of conc. HCl was added followed by stirring for 12 hours. Ethanol then was evaporated and the crude product was extracted with EtOAc 2 25 mL . Concentration and purification by silica gel column provided the ethyl ester 668 mg 20 two steps as an oil.

The ethyl ester was subjected to NaBH 2 3 equiv. reduction in MeOH for 2 3 hours at room temperature to obtain alcohol 28. Treatment of alcohol 28 with N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 2 equiv. and EtN 4 equiv in CHCN for 12 24 hours provided the mixed carbonate 29 in excellent yield.

To compound 30 300 mg 2 mmol in MeOH 5 mL at 0 C. was added NaBH 145 mg 3.8 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred for 12 hours. Standard workup and purification afforded the corresponding alcohol in quantitative yield.

The alcohol 50 mg 0.31 mmol N N disuccinimidyl carbonate 1128 mg 0.5 mmol and EtN 63 mg 0.63 mmol in CHCN 2 mL were stirred for 12 hours. After dilution with EtOAc 10 mL and washing several times with brine 3 10 mL the organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by silica gel chromatography to obtain compound 31 52 mg 58 as solid. M.P. 94 C. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.9 d 1H J 4.4 Hz 8.1 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 7.9 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 7.74 m 1H 7.63 m 1H 7.49 d 1H J 4.3 Hz 2.84 s 4H .

To a solution of compound 32 5 g 29 mmol and sulfuric acid HSO 8.6 g 88 mmol in water 100 mL at 0 C. was added sodium nitrite NaNO 2.2 g 32 mmol in portions. Then the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature followed by boiling for 20 minutes. The red solution was concentrated under reduced pressure. The resulting crude product was extracted with hot EtOH 2 100 mL . All extractions were concentrated and treated with aq. NaOH solution until basic and again concentrated to provided the sodium salt of the crude 3 hydroxybenzenesulfonic acid.

The salt 5.6 g 29 mmol and thionyl chloride SOCl 15 mL were refluxed and dimethylformamide DMF 0.1 mL was added. Refluxing was continued for 4 hours. The reaction mixture then was cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the hydroxybenzenesulfonyl chloride.

To the sulfonyl chloride 1 g 5.2 mmol and DHP 0.87 g 10 mmol in CHCl 25 mL was added PPTS pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 100 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and the organic layer washed with aq. NaHCOsolution 20 mL and brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 33 670 mg 56 . H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 7.67 m 1H 7.55 m 1H 7.4 m 1H 5.5 m 1H 3.9 and 3.6 two m 2H 1.5 2 m 6H .

To compound 34 2 g 10.5 mmol HSO 2 g 21 mmol AcO 8 mL AcOH 8 mL at 0 C. 5 C. was added CrO 2.1 g 21 mmol in portions. The resulting reaction mixture was monitored by TLC. When the reaction was 50 complete ice cold water 50 mL was added and the reaction mixture extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine 2 20 mL and then aq. NaHCOsolution. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 35 1.09 g 33 . H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 8.0 d 2H J 6.7 Hz 7.78 m 3H 2.15 s 6H .

The same procedure was followed as for the preparation of compound 35 starting with m toluene sulfonyl chloride 36 . H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 8.19 m 1H 8.1 m 1H 7.9 m 1H 7.65 m 1H 2.16 s 6H .

Following the same reaction under controlled conditions as described for compound 35 a mixture of isomers of compound 37b was obtained.

Key a SO NaHCO 6 hours then compound 38 reflux four days b SOCl reflux DMF 50 for two steps c DHP PPTS CHCl 1 hour 67 .

To a suspension of NaHCO 10 g 119 mmol in water 30 mL was bubbled SOgas. Bubbling continued until the NaHCOwas solubilized 6 hours . To this yellow solution exit gases have a pH 1 2 was added phloroglucinol 38 5 g 30.8 mmol . The reaction mixture was refluxed for four days then cooled to room temperature the solvent evaporated and the resulting solid was dried to obtain 3 5 dihydroxybenzenesulfonic acid.

The crude acid 500 mg 2.35 mmol and SOCl 7 mL were refluxed in the presence of DMF 0.1 mL for 40 minutes. The resulting reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc 50 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL and aq. NaHCOsolution. The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous NaSOthen evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the dihydroxybenzene sulfonyl chloride 246 mg 50 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 7.1 m 2H 6.8 m 1H .

The dihydroxy compound 222 mg 1.06 mmol DHP 224 mg 2.66 mmol in CHCl 10 mL and PPTS 50 mg were stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated under reduced pressure. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the compound 39 237 mg 67 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.3 m 2H 7 m 1H 5.4 m 2H 3.8 and 3.6 two m 4H 1.4 2 m 12H .

Key a Br. 130 C. 8 hours b HO 100 C. 2 hours c NHOH CuSO.5HO 170 C. 20 hours d fuming HSO HO 0 C. 23 C. 40 hours e PCl POCl reflux 6 hours 45 for five steps.

Compound 40 7 g 35 mmol and bromine 6.7 g 42 mmol in a sealed tube were heated at 130 C. for 8 hours on oil bath. After cooling to room temperature water 70 mL was added and the reaction mixture heated again at 100 C. for 2 hours. After cooling acetone 60 mL was added and resulting solid was filtered and dried to obtain compound 41 as crude product white solid. H NMR dMSO d 300 MHz 9.3 br s 1H 8.8 m 2H 8.2 m 1H .

The acid 41 4.5 g 19 mmol ammonium hydroxide NHOH 15 mL 28 and copper sulfate CuSO.5HO 470 mg 1.9 mmol were heated at 170 C. in a sealed tube for 20 hours. After cooling water 5 mL was added followed by sodium sulfide NaS.9HO 450 mg . Evaporation of water gave the crude aminopyridinesulfonic acid.

Fuming HSO 30 mL was placed in a flask cooled to 0 C. Hydrogen peroxide HO 14 mL 30 was carefully added. Then the above crude sulfonic acid 2.8 g 16 mmol in HSO 8 mL was added to the above mixture. The resulting solution was stirred at room temperature for 40 hours and then poured into ice water containing sodium carbonate NaCO . Sufficient NaCOwas added to make the solution basic which was acidified again to pH 1 2. The resulting solution was concentrated to minimum volume 20 mL . The precipitated NaCl was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The resulting solid was extracted with MeOH 3 50 ml . The combined MeOH extractions were concentrated to 20 mL and acetone 80 mL was added. The solid obtained was filtered and dried to obtain nitro pyridine sulfonic acid.

This acid 1.7 g 7 mmol and phosphorus pentachloride PCl 1.7 g 8 mmol in POCl 50 mL were refluxed for 6 hours. After cooling to room temperature the solids were filtered and the filtrate concentrated. The oily residue was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand evaporated to obtain compound 42 730 mg 45 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.15 m 1H 9.02 m 1H 8.43 m 1H .

To compound 43 7 g 5 mmol was carefully added fuming HSO 60 mL . The resulting mixture was heated to 60 C. for 30 minutes. Then the hot mixture was slowly and very carefully poured into beaker containing potassium chloride KCl 30 g and ice. The resulting white solid obtained was recrystallized from hot water to give 4 fluoro 3 nitrobenzenesulfonic acid in quantitative yield.

The acid 2 g 7.7 mmol and phosphorus pentachloride PCl 1.8 g 7.5 mmol in phosphorus oxytrichloride POCl 60 mL were refluxed for 6 hours. The resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. Crushed ice was added to the oily residue. The solid was filtered and washed with water 2 50 mL dried to obtain compound 44 quantitative . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 8.8 m 1H 8.36 m 1H 7.6 m 1H .

Key a BocO CHCl 2 hours b p TsCl EtN DMAP CHCl 8 hours quantitative c NaN DMF 80 C. 4 hours d H Pd C 10 MeOH 5 6 hours 92 .

Compound 45 775 mg 9 mmol and BocO 2.33 g 10.6 mmol in CHCl 40 mL were stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided N Boc pyrrolidnol as an oil.

This alcohol 7.3 g 39 mmol p TsCl 8.2 g 43 mmol EtN 9.8 g 97 mmol DMAP 240 mg in CHCl 100 mL were stirred for 8 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was washed with brine 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the ester in quantitative yield.

This sulfonate ester 12.5 g 38 mmol and NaN 3.7 g 57 mmol in DMF. 70 mL were heated at 80 C. for 4 hours. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 200 mL . The organic layer washed with brine 2 100 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the azido compound which was hydrogenated in presence of Pd C 10 in MeOH for 5 6 hours to obtain compound 46 7.43 g 92 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.12 m 1H 3.5 m 4H 2 m 2H 1.45 s 9H .

Key a LiAlH THF 55 C. 24 hours 55 b MsCl EtN CHCl 0 C. 45 min 90 c BnNH reflux 36 hours d Pd OH BocO EtN THF 8 hours 85 e TSOH MeOH 1 hour 96 f MsCl EtN 0 C. CHCl 10 min. g NaNDMF 80 C. 6 hours h H Pd C 10 MeOH 5 6 hours 81 for two steps.

To compound 47 8.4 g 34 mmol in THF 130 mL was added lithium aluminum hydride LiAlH 7.6 g 206 mmol in portions. The resulting mixture was heated at 55 C. for 24 hours. After cooling to room temperature HO 7.2 ml NaOH 7.2 mL 20 and HO 14.4 mL were added sequentially and the mixture was stirred for 12 hours. The solid was filtered and the filtrate concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the diol 3.66 55 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.6 m 1H 4 m 1H 3.5 3.9 m 6H 2.92 s 2H 1.4 1.82 m 8H s 9H .

To that diol 3.66 g 19 mmol and EtN 5.23 g 51 mmol in CHCl 80 mL at 0 C. was added MsCl 5.48 g 48 mmol . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 45 minutes at room temperature then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the compound 48 6 g 90 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.6 m 1H 4.2 4.4 m 4H 3.8 4.1 m 2H 3 m 6H 2 m 2H 1.75 m 2H 1.45 m 4H .

Compound 48 6 g 17 mmol and BnNH 6.5 g 60 mmol in THF 150 mL were refluxed for 12 hours. Then benzylamine BnNH 6.5 g 60 mmol again was added and refluxing was continued for 24 hours followed by cooling to room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the pyrrolidine compound 4.4 g as an oil. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.2 m 5H 4.55 m 1H 4.38 m 1H 3.8 m 1H 3.6 m 2H 3.41 m 1H 2.4 2.7 m 4H 2.1 m 1H 1.4 1.9 m 7H .

This amino compound 4.4 g 17 mmol in MeOH 50 mL was hydrogenated over Pd OH 1 g 20 for 18 hours. BocO 4.4 g 20 mmol and EtN 3 g 21 mmol were added and stirred for 8 hours at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the Boc compound 3.9 g 85 .

To this THP ether 3.9 g 14.3 mmol in MeOH 60 mL was added TsOH 140 mg followed by stirring for 1 hour at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 49 2.56 96 . 24.2 c 2.1 CHCl. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.4 m 1H 3.4 m 3H 3.3 m 1H 1.89 m 2H 1.4 m 9H .

To compound. 49 g 10.7 mmol and EtN 2.15 g 21 mmol in CHCl 50 mL at 0 C. was added MsCl 1.46 g 12.8 mmol followed by stirring for 10 minutes room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 50 ml and the organic layer washed with brine 2 50 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the dimesolate compound 2.9 g as an oil.

This mesolate 2.9 g 11 mmol and NaN 1 g 16 mmol in DMF 20 mL were stirred for 6 hours at 60 C. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided an azido compound which was hydrogenated as described above to provide compound 50 1.87 g 81 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.12 m 1H 3.4 m 4H 2 m 2H 1.45 s 9H .

Key a benzhydrylamine MeOH 72 hours 23 C. then reflux 72 hours b MeOH EtOH 1 1 Pd OH 20 12 hours c Boc sat. NaHCO 24 hours d MsCl EtN CHCl 1 hour 83 e NaN DMF 70 C. 72 hours then H Pd C 10 MeOH 5 6 hours quantitative.

2 2 Chloroethyl oxirane 51 5 g 54 mmol and benzhydrylamine 10 g 53 mmol in MeOH 25 mL were allowed to stand for 72 hours then refluxed for 72 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then concentrated to obtain a crude product solid.

The crude product 1.7 g 7 mmol in MeOH and EtOH 10 10 mL was hydrogenated in presence of Pd OH 500 mg 20 for 12 hours. The reaction mixture then was filtered and BocO 2.3 g 10 mmol and sat. NaHCOsolution 10 mL were added followed by stirring for 24 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 52 1.35 g . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.5 m 1H 4.04 m 2H 3.7 dd 2H 1.45 s 9H .

To compound 52 928 mg 5.3 mmol and EtN 1 g 10.7 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was added MsCl 733 mg 6.4 mmol followed by stirring for 1 hour at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the mesolate compound 1.11 g 83 as an oil.

The mesolate 1.11 g 4.4 mmol and NaN 574 mg 8.8 mmol in DMF 10 mL were stirred for 72 hours at 72 C. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer was washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the azido compound which was subsequently converted to compound 53 in quantitative yield by hydrogenation. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 4.15 m 3H 3.82 m 2H 1.4 s 9H .

The same reaction conditions used to prepare compound 53 were used to obtain compound 55 in quantitative yield. A satisfactory NMR was obtained for this compound.

Key a aminosulfonic acid 180 200 C. 1.5 hours 40 b SOCl reflux DMF 1 hour 44 c DHP PPTS CHCl 2 hours 56 .

Compound 56 25 g 220 mmol was heated at 180 200 C. then aminosulfonic acid 9.7 g 100 mmol was added portion wise. The resulting slurry was stirred and heated for 1.5 hours then cooled and dissolved in minimum amount of water. The clear solution was treated with decolorizing charcoal and filtered. The filtrate was washed with ether 2 50 mL and the aqueous layer concentrated to minimum volume 20 mL . Upon standing crystals separated which were dried to obtain 3 4 dihydroxybenzene sulfonic acid 7.56 g 40 . M.P. 254 255 C. lit. 260 C.

To the above sulfonic acid 7 g 38 mmol was added SOCl 15 mL and DMF 0.1 mL following the same conditions described above for compound 39 to obtain the sulfonyl chloride 3.6 g 44 as an oil.

This chloride 3.5 g 16.8 mmol DHP 3.1 g 37 mmol and PPTS 200 mg in CHCl 50 mL were stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 20 mL and the organic layer washed with NaHCO 20 mL then brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 57 3.2 g 56 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 8 d 1H J 2 Hz 7.63 m 1H 7.25 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 5.58 m 2H 3.4 4.2 m 4H 1.4 2.2 m 12H .

Key a DHP PPTS CHCl 4 5 hours b KCO MeOH 30 min. c Rh AlO H EtOAc 8 12 hours d BnBr NaH TBAI THF 12 14 hours e p TsOH MeOH 20 30 min. f PCC CHCl MS 4 12 hours g allylmagnesium bromide THF 0 C. 30 min. h 9BBN THF room temperature 24 hours i MsCl Py 24 hours j H Pd OH EtOAc 12 hours k N N disuccinimidyl carbonate EtN acetonitrile 12 24 hours.

Key a Isobutylamine isopropanol reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 33 CHCl aq. NaHCOsol. 12 hours c Pd C 10 H MeOH 6 8 hours d various mixed carbonates EtN CHCl 4 6 hours.

Compound 75 Compound 66 0.12 mmol compound 26 0.14 mmol and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 1 mL were stirred for 6 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with CHCl 10 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the THP ether.

The THP ether 0.011 mmol and p TsOH 2 mg in MeOH 0.5 mL were stirred for 10 minutes at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 10 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 75 5 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.3 s 1H 7 7.4 m 9H 5.05 m 1H 4.68 d 1H 4 Hz 3.8 4 m 3H 3.6 m 1H 2.6 3.1 m 6H 1.5 2.1 m 1H 0.93 m 6H .

Compound 78 Compound 66 22 mg 0.055 mmol compound 4 18 mg 0.066 mmol and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 1 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 78 23 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.2 7.5 m 9H 5.5 m 1H 4.86 m 2H 4.4 m 1H 3.6 3.8 m 6H 2.8 3.2 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 1.4 2.1 m 13H 0.96 ABq 6H J 6.5 Hz .

Compound 79 Compound 78 19 mg 0.03 mmol and TsOH 6 mg in MeOH 1 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 79 12 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.9 s 1H 7.1 7.4 m 8H 7.03 d 1H J 6.9 Hz 5.29 m 1H 5 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 4.6 t 1H J 6.1 Hz 4.1 m 1H 3.85 4 m 2H 3.75 q 1H J 7.9 Hz 3.53 dd 1H J 3 Hz 15 Hz 3.1 m 1H 2.91 dd 1H J 5.2 Hz 14 Hz 2.82 m 1H 2.65 dd 1H J 7.6 Hz 14.9 Hz 2.59 dd 1H J 4.6 Hz 13.1 Hz 1.7 2.2 m 7H 0.98 and 0.88 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Key a Isobutylamine isopropanol reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 39 CHCl aq. NaHCOsol. 12 hours c Pd C 10 H MeOH 6 hours d mixed carbonate EtN CHCl 2 3 hours e p TsOH MeOH 5 15 minutes.

Compound 87 Compound 80 55 mg 0.9 mmol compound 4 25 mg 0.9 mmol and EtN 2.0 equiv. in CHCl 2 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 87 26 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.2 7.5 m 8H 5.56 m 2H 4.86 m 2H 4.3 m 1H 3.5 4 m 8H 2.8 3.2 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 1.6 2.1 m 19H 0.86 ABq 6H J 6.3 Hz .

Compound 88 Compound 87 21 mg 0.028 mmol and p TsOH 10 mg in MeOH 1 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 88 8 mg as a solid. M.P. 80 82 C. 9.7 c 0.82 MeOH. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.5 s 1H 7.2 m 7H 7 d 1H J 8.3 Hz 6 s 1H 5.03 t 1H J 5.2 Hz 4.91 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 4.58 t 1H J 6.2 Hz 4.18 dd 1H J 6.5 Hz 7.7 Hz 3.9 m 2H 3.82 m 1H 3.51 dd 1H J 3.5 Hz 15 Hz 3.25 m 1H 3.1 m 2H 2.95 dd 1H J 8.2 Hz 14 Hz 2.87 m 1H 2.58 m 1H 2.49 dd 1H J 4.3 Hz 13 Hz 1.9 2.2 m 4H 1.75 d 1H J 14.2 Hz 1.02 and 0.87 ABq 6H 6.4 Hz .

Key a Isobutylamine isopropanol reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 39 aqueous NaHCO CHCl 12 hours c Pd C 10 H MeOH 6 hours d various mixed carbonates EtN CHCl 6 hours e p TsOH MeOH 5 15 min.

Compound 99 Compound 89 102 mg 0.178 mmol compound 4 48 mg 0.178 mmol and EtN 2.0 equiv. in CHCl 5 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 99 110 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.25 m 5H 7.09 s 2H 6.96 s 1H 5.43 m 2H 4.78 m 2H 4.39 m 1H 3.9 m 5H 3.65 m 3H 3.15 m 2H 3.05 m 1H 2.87 m 2H 2.6 m 1H 2.02 1.85 and 1.7 three m 18H 0.92 and 0.87 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 100 Compound 99 88 mg 0.12 mmol and TSOH 20 mg in MeOH 5 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 100 as a solid. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 8.08 s 2H 7.23 m 5H 6.78 s 2H 6.54 s 1H 5.21 d 1H J 8 Hz 4.93 m 1H 4.52 m 1H 3.8 4.1 m 3H 3.68 dd 1H J 7 Hz 14.5 Hz 3.5 m 2H 2.5 3.1 m 7H 1.5 2.2 m 7H 0.92 and 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Key a Isobutylamine isopropanol reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 35 aqueous NaHCO CHCl 12 hours c KCO MeOH 30 min d NaBH MeOH 15 min e Pd C 10 H MeOH 6 hours f various mixed carbonates EtN CHCl 6 hours.

Compound 110 Compound 101 70 mg 0.17 mmol compound 4 46 mg 0.17 mmol. and EtN 2.0 equiv. in CHCl 10 mL were subjected to same conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain compound 110 75 mg as a solid. M.P. 110 112 C. 10 c 0.72 CHCl. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.75 d 2H 7.5 d 2H 4.85 s 1H 4.76 m 3H 4.37 m 1H 3.6 3.9 m 4H 2.8 3.15 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 2 m 2H 1.8 m 2H 1.69 1.55 and 1.44 three m 3H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 111 Compound 101 and compound 6 were subjected to conditions previously described above for compound 75 to obtain 111 as a solid H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.76 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.42 d 2H J 8.1 Hz 7.2 m 5H 4.8 m 1H 4.77 s 2H 4.66 m 1H 4.35 m 1H 3.6 3.82 m 4H 2.71 3.05 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 1.4 2.1 m 6H 0.82 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 113 Compound 112 and compound 4 were subjected to conditions described above for compound 75 to obtain 113 as a solid. 4.4 C. c 0.67 CHCl. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.8 s 1H 7.61 d 1H J 10 Hz 7.44 m 2H 7.21 m 5H 4.92 d 1H J 10.8 Hz 4.81 m 1H 4.71 s 2H 4.38 m 1H 3.6 3.91 m 3H 3.39 m 1H 3.01 m 3H 2.92 d 2H J 10 Hz 2.5 2.8 m 2H 1.78 2.02 m 5H 1.4 1.65 m 2H 0.91 ABq 6H J 6.3 Hz .

Compound 114 Compound 112 and compound 15 were subjected to conditions as described above for compound 75 to obtain 114 as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.15 7.65 m 9H 5.6 d 1H J 5.1 Hz 5.54 d 1H J 9.2 Hz 4.96 m 1H 4.69 s 2H 3.57 3.83 m 6H 2.72 3.2 m 7H 1.9 1.32 and 1.26 three m 3H 0.88 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Key a iBuNH iPrOH reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 35 or 36 aq. NaHCO CHCl 12 hours c Pd C 10 MeOH 6 8 hours d KCO MeOH 30 min c H Pd C 10 mixed carbonate 15 EtN THF 12 hours d i NaBH EtOH ii TsCl EtN DMAP for compound 117 e reductive amination NaCNBH AcOH MeOH with NHOAc for compound 118 with MeNHfor compound 119 f NHOH HCl EtN MeOH for compound 120 g i triphenylphosphonoacetate NaH THF 0 C. 30 min ii DIBAL H CHCl 78 C. 1 h for compound 121.

Compound 117 Compound 116 was subjected to NaBHreduction and the resulting alcohol was treated with pTsCl in pyridine to obtain compound 117 as an oil. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.79 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.74 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.43 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.36 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.23 m 5H 5.64 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.1 s 2H 5.02 m 2H 3.8 4 m 3H 3.7 m 2H 3.61 m 1H 2.75 3.2 m 7H 2.45 s 3H 1.45 1.6 and 1.83 three m 3H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 118 Compound 117 26 mg 0.036 mmol and NaN 5 mg 0.073 mmol in DMF 2 mL were stirred for 30 min at 65 70 C. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided an azido intermediate.

The azido intermediate 21 mg 0.036 mmol and triphenylphospine PhP 14 mg 0.054 mmol in THF.HO 9 1 2 mL were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 118 as a solid. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 7.75 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.51 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.23 m 5H 5.65 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 4.99 m 2H 3.62 4.1 m 6H 2.73 3.2 m 7H 1.85 m 1H 1.6 m 2H 0.91 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 119 To compound 116 75 mg 0.133 mmol methylamine MeNH 8.3 mg 0.026 mmol and acetic acid AcOH 9.5 mg 0.015 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added sodium cyanoborohydride NaCNBH 10 mg 0.159 mmol at room temperature. The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and NaHCOsolution 5 mL . The organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 119 as a solid. M.P. 57 62 C. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.75 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.75 d 2H J 8 Hz 5.64 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.03 m 2H 3.8 4 m 5H 3.88 s 2H 3.67 m 1H 2.75 3.2 m 7H 1.44 1.63 and 1.93 three m 3H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 120 The above azido epoxide was converted into the corresponding aldehyde using the following sequence i terminal epoxide opening with isobutylamine in isopropyl alcohol for 3 hours ii treatment of resulting amine with compound 37 in NaHCO HO and iii hydrolysis of the resulting bisacetoxy compound using KCOin MeOH to obtain the aldehyde. The resulting aldehyde 35 mg 0.062 mmol hydroxylamine hydrochloride NHOH.HCl 86 mg 0.12 mmol and EtN 2 eq in MeOH 5 mL were stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the azido oxime as an oil.

The azido function of the oxime was hydrogenated over Pd C 10 in MeOH for 6 hours and the resulting amine was treated with compound 15 1 eq. and EtN 2 eq. in CHClfor 3 hours to obtain compound 120 as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.15 and 8.05 two s 2H 7.77 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.72 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.54 dd 1H J 7.6 Hz 8.0 Hz 5.67 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.05 m 2H 3.7 4 m 6H 3.19 m H 3.1 m 2H 2.95 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 2.8 dd 1H J 7.6 Hz 12.4 Hz 1.6 1.7 and 1.85 three m 3H 0.89 d 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 121 To EtO P O CHCOEt 1.1 equiv. in THF was added NaH 37 mg 0.93 mmol followed by stirring for 10 hours at room temperature. Then aldehyde 116 222 mg 0.54 mmol in THF 2 mL was added and stirring was continued for 10 minutes at room temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided an ester. To the ester 50 g 0.1 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was added DIBAL H diisobutylaluminum hydride 1M 0.5 mL at 78 C. After 30 min the reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature then treated with MeOH 1 mL to destroy excess DIBAL H. Cold oil hydrochloric acid HCl 10 15 mL was added cautiously and the resulting mixture was stirred until a clear organic layer was obtained which was extracted with EtOAc 2 10 mL . The organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated to obtain a crude product amino allylic alcohol.

The amino alcohol 1 equiv. compound 15 1 equiv. and EtN 2 equiv. in CHClwere stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 121 as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.72 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.5 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.29 m 5H 6.69 d 1H J 16 Hz 6.51 m 1H 5.6 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5 m 1H 4.95 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 4.37 d 2H J 4.4 Hz 3.86 m 4H 3.65 m 2H 3.15 m 1H 3.1 dd 1H J 4 Hz. 14.4 Hz 3 m 2H 2.81 m 2H 1.45 1.61 and 1.8 three m 3H 0.91 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Key a iBuNH iPrOH reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 35 aq. NaHCO CHCl 12 hours c H Pd C 10 mixed carbonate 4 EtN THF 12 hours d KCO MeOH 30 min e reductive amination NaCNBH AcOH MeOH with NHOAc for compound 125 with MeNHfor compound 126 with dimethylamine MeNH for compound 127 f NHOH.HCl EtN MeOH for compound 128 g RSOCl where R is 4 hydroxy methylsulfonyl chloride or TsCl or 8 quinoline sulfonyl chloride or benzylsulfonyl chloride aq. NaHCO CHCl 12 hours h PhP THF water 12 hours.

Compound 125 Compound 124 was converted into compound 125 using the following reaction sequence i NaBHreduction of aldehyde 124 to primary alcohol ii tosylation of primary alcohol iii nucleophilic displacement of sulfonate ester with NaN DMF heat 65 C. iv conversion of the azido function to amine using PhP THF.HO 9 1 12 hours to obtain compound 125. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.74 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.48 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.3 m 5H 4.9 m 2H 4.41 m 1H 4 s 2H 3.78 m 3H 3.68 m 1H 2.72 3.2 m 6H 2.65 m 1H 2.46 br s 2H 1.8 2.1 m 5H 1.4 m 2H 0.88 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 126 Aldehyde 124 50 mg 0.89 mmol and MeNH 120 mg 40 in water in MeOH 5 mL were stirred in presence of hydrogen for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 126 39 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.73 d 2H J 6.8 Hz 7.47 d 2H J 7.6 Hz 7.25 m 5H 4.86 m 1H 4.79 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 4.39 t 1H J 6.4 Hz 3.82 s 2H 3.82 m 3H 3.7 m 1H 3 m 4H 2.8 m 2H 2.62 m 1H 2.5 s 3H 2 m 4H 1.85 m 2H 1.4 and 1.6 two m 2H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 127 Aldehyde 124 32 mg 0.076 mmol and HNMe 0.09 mL 0.019 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was hydrogenated in presence of Pd C 10 10 mg for 12 hours. Filtration followed by concentration provided a crude product. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 127 27 mg as a solid. 19.29 c 0.57 CHCl. H NMR CDCl 200 MHz 7.78 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.58 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.25 m 5H 4.84 m 2H 4.39 dt 1H J 6.4 Hz 4.4 Hz 3.6 3.85 m 6H 2.75 3.2 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 2.38 s 6H 2 m 3H 1.9 and 1.5 two m 4H 0.88 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 128 Aldehyde 124 137 mg 0.339 mmol NHOH.HCl 46 mg 0.67 mmol and EtN 68 mg 0.67 mmol in MeOH 5 mL were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 30 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 128 84 mg as a solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.53 and 8.1 two s 2H 7.73 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.65 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.2 m 5H 4.83 m 1H 4.79 d 1H J 8.7 Hz 4.35 m 1H 3.78 m 3H 3.61 m 1H 2.75 3.12 m 6H 2.6 m 1H 1.4 1.8 and 2 three m total 7H 0.83 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 129 Compound 37 was used in place of compound 35 in the reaction sequence as described for compound 124 to obtain corresponding meta substituted aldehyde in quantitative yield. The aldehyde was subjected to similar conditions as described for compound 128 to obtain compound 129 as a solid in quantitative yield. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 9.5 s 1H 8.1 s 2H 7.77 d 1H J 8 Hz 7.62 d 1H J 7.6 Hz 7.55 t 1H J 4 Hz 7.23 m 5H 5.02 d 1H J 8.8 Hz 4.94 m 1H 4.44 m 1H 3.6 4 m 4H 3.4 3 and 2.83 three m 6H 2.65 m 1H 2.05 m 4H 1.5 1.63 and 1.9 three m 3H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 130 To 4 bromobenzyl alcohol 1 equiv. in THF was added sodium hydride NaH 2 equiv. at 0 C. To the resulting sodium alkoxide after 20 min was added methyl iodide MeI 4 equiv. and the reaction mixture was allowed to stir for 24 hours at room temperature. After workup and purification n BuLi 2.1 equiv. was used to the resulting methyl ether derivative in THF at 78 C. followed by stirring for 1 hour. In another flask SOCl 5 equiv. in THF was charged and cooled to 78 C. To this solution was added to the above solution. After one hour workup with sat. NHCl solution and flash chromatography was provided p methoxymethyl benzene sulfonyl chloride in 33 yield. After step a in the above scheme the resulting amine 1 equiv. the above p methoxymethylbenzene sulfonyl chloride 1.1 equiv. and EtN 2 equiv. in CHClwere stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Washing the reaction mixture with brine and sat. NHCl and purification of crude residue provided the corresponding sulfonamide. The azido function of the sulfonamide was converted to amine using PhP TH.HO 9 1 12 hours. After purification the resulting amine 1 equiv. active carbonate 4 1.1 equiv. and EtN 2 equiv. in CHClwere stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 130 as liquid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.76 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.48 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.27 m 5H 3.8 m 3H 3.63 m 1H 3.43 s 3H 3 3.15 m 3H 2.95 dd 1H J 13.6 Hz 8.4 Hz 2.83 m 2H 2.63 m 1H 2.05 m 3H 1.81 m 2H 1.49 and 1.55 two m 2H 0.87 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 131 After step a in above scheme the resulting amine 1 equiv. and TsCl 1.1 equiv. in a mixture of sat. NaHCOsolution and CHCl were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the p toluene sulfonamide derivative. The azido function of the above sulfonamide was hydrogenated in presence Pd C 10 for 6 hours and the resulting amine 1 equiv. active carbonate 4 1.1 equiv. EtN 2 equiv. in CHClwere stirred for 4 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 131 as solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.6 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.31 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.25 m 5H 4.87 m 1H 4.75 m 1H 4.4 m 1H 3.8 m 3H 3.7 m 1H 2.7 3.2 m 6H 2.62 m 1H 2.42 s 3H 2.03 m 3H 1.82 m 2H 1.4 and 1.53 two m 2H 0.87 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 132 After step a in the scheme above the resulting amine 1 equiv. and commercially available 8 quinoline sulfonyl chloride 1.1 equiv. in a mixture of sat. NaHCOsolution and CHClwere stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided corresponding 8 quinoline sulfoanmide derivative. The azido function of the above quinoline derivative 7 mg 0.016 mmol was hydrogenated in presence of Pd C 10 in THF for 6 hours and the resulting amine was treated in situ with active carbonate 4 4 mg 0.016 mmol and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 2 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 132 6.6 mg as solid. H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 9.02 dd 1H J 1.8 Hz 3.9 Hz 8.51 dd 1H J 0.92 Hz 7.2 Hz 8.23 dd 1H J 1.8 Hz 8.7 Hz 8.03 dd 1H J 0.9 Hz 8.1 Hz 7.6 dd 1H J 7.5 Hz 7.8 Hz 7.53 dd 1H J 4.5 Hz 8.4 Hz 7.2 m 5H 4.8 m 1H 4.73 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 4.34 dd 1H J 5.4 Hz 6.3 Hz 3.76 3.92 m 3H 3.6 m 1H 3.29 d 1H 14 Hz 3.02 m 3H 2.91 m 2H 2.62 m 1H 1.97 m 3H 1.7 m 2H 1.52 and 1.4 two m 2H 0.65 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 133 After reaction step a the resulting amine 41 mg 0.157 mmol commercially available benzyl sulfonyl chloride 1.1 equiv. and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 3 mL were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided the corresponding sulfonamide. The above sulfonamide 38 mg 0.091 mmol and PhP 47 mg 0.18 mmol in THF.HO 9 1 were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. The resulting crude product amine active carbonate 4 25 mg 0.93 mmol and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 5 mL were stirred for 4 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 133 as solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.18 7.36 m 10H 4.9 4.73 and 4.4 three m 3H 4.27 s 2H 3.72 m 4H 3.05 and 3.16 two m 2H 2.81 m 5H 1.5 2.1 m 7H 0.84 ABq 6 H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 134 After reaction step a the resulting amine 1 equiv. 3 5 dihydroxybenzoic acid 1 equiv. EDCI 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 1.2 equiv. HOBt 1 hydroxybenzotriazole hydrate 1.2 equiv. and EtN 4 equiv. in CHCl.DMF 9 1 were stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided corresponding 3 5 dihydroxybenzamide derivative. The above derivative 1 equiv. and active carbonate 4 1.1 equiv. in THF were stirred under hydrogen atmosphere in presence of Pd C 10 for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was filtered and the organic layer washed with brine. The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 134 as a solid.

Key a Isobutylamine isopropanol reflux 6 hours b sulfonyl chloride 35 aq. NaHCO CHCl c KCO NeOH 30 min d N methylpyrazine or morpholine NaCNBH AcOH NeOH 12 hours e TFA CHCl f mixed carbonate 22 EtN CHCl.

Compound 137 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.71 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.47 d 2H 8.4 Hz 7.27 m 5H 4.65 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 3.79 m 2H 3.55 s 2H 2.8 3.12 m 6H 2.5 br m 8H 2.31 s 3H 1.84 m 1H 1.33 s 9H 0.9 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 138 Compound 125 was subjected to TFA.CHCl 20 for 20 min at room temperature that provided a crude amine salt after concentration. The amine salt 8.7 mg active carbonate 22 5 mg and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 2 mL were stirred for 4 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 138. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.74 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.51 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.29 m 5H 5.11 m 1H 4.88 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 3.79 m 5H 3.61 m 1H 3.56 s 2H 3.12 m 1H 2.95 d 2H J 13.6 2.92 and 2.87 two m 2H 2.82 dd 1H J 6.8 Hz 13.6 Hz 2.5 m 8H 2.37 s 3H 2.1 1.92 and 1.81 three m 3H 0.88 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz .

Compound 139 To compound 135 17 mg AcOH 3 mg and morpholine 9 mg in MeOH was added NaCNBH 4 mg . The resulting reaction mixture was stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 2 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided morpholine derivative.

The morpholine derivative 10 mg was treated with 20 TFA trifluoroacetic acid CHCl 3 mL for 30 min. After evaporation of solvent and drying the resulting amine salt active carbonate 22 6 mg and EtN 2 equiv. in CHCl 3 mL were stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 20 mL and the organic layer washed with brine 20 mL . The combined organic layer was dried over anhydrous NaSOand concentrated. Purification of the resulting crude product by flash silica gel chromatography provided compound 139. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.75 d 2H J 8 Hz 7.5 d 2H J 8 Hz 5.1 m 1H 4.88 d 1H J 8.4 Hz 3.8 m 9H 3.6 m 1H 3.55 s 2H 3.14 dd 1H J 7.6 Hz 15.2 Hz 3.05 m 3H 2.91 m 1H 2.88 dd 1H J 6.4 Hz 13.2 Hz 2.5 s 4H 2.1 1.9 and 1.87 three m 3H 0.89 ABq 6H J 6.4 Hz 

A solution of S 4 amino 2 methylbutyric acid hydrochloride 251 190 mg 1.23 mmol in acetonitrile 25 mL and hexamethyldisilazane HMDS 1 mL was heated under reflux for 72 hours. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 15 MeOH in CHClyielding 36 mg of compound 252 29 as a colorless solid R 0.20.

1S Benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 3 S oxopyrrolidin 3 ylamino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 252a A solution of tert butyl S R R 1 oxiranyl 2 phenylethyl carbamate 26 mg 0.10 mmol 3S aminopyrrolidin 2 one 252 20 mg 0.20 mmol and isopropylethylamine 70 L 0.40 mmol in isopropanol 3 mL was heated under reflux for 12 hours. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 15 MeOH in chloroform CHCl yielding 10 mg of compound 252a 28 as a colorless solid R 0.25.

1S Benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 3 S isobutyl 2 oxopyrrolidin 3 yl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 252b A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 3 S oxopyrrolidin 3 ylamino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 252a 5.0 mg 0.014 mmol iso butyraldehyde 0.10 mL 1.1 mmol and molecular sieve 3 100 mg in EtOH 1 mL under argon was heated at reflux for 12 hours. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was redissolved in EtOH 1 mL . Glacial acetic acid 0.10 mL was added followed by sodium cyanoborohydride 30 mg 0.048 mmol . After 30 min saturated aq. NaHCO 5 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The organic layer was dried evaporated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 4.9 mg of compound 252b 85 as a colorless solid R 0.22.

Compound 248 A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 3 S iso butyl 2 oxopyrrolidin 3 yl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 252b 5.0 mg 0.012 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 5 mL . To this solution was added triethylamine 0.1 mL and after 5 min carbamate 22 3.0 mg 0.013 mmol . After stirring for 20 min the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 4.5 mg of compound 248 86 as a colorless solid R 0.15. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.29 7.17 m 5H 6.05 bs 1H 5.10 bs 1H 4.88 d 1H J 9.3 Hz 3.84 3.63 m 7H 3.34 3.28 m 2H 2.93 2.87 m 2H 2.46 2.43 m 2H 2.31 2.05 m 4H 1.95 1.87 m 2H 1.77 1.70 m 1H 0.94 d 3H J 6.4 Hz 0.87 d 3H J 6.4 Hz.

Compound 249 A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 3 S isobutyl 2 oxopyrrolidin 3 yl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 252b 5.0 mg 0.012 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 5 mL . To this solution was added triethylamine 0.1 mL and after 5 min carbamate 15 3.4 mg 0.013 mmol . After stirring for 20 min the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 3.8 mg of compound 249 67 as a colorless solid R 0.25. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.26 7.16 m 5H 5.63 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 5.10 bs 1H 5.00 4.97 m 1H 3.98 3.92 m 2H 3.86 3.72 m 2H 3.71 3.61 m 5H 3.40 3.25 m 2H 3.05 2.95 m 1H 2.92 2.81 m 1H 2.75 2.69 m 1H 2.53 2.37 m 2H 2.33 2.18 m 2H 1.95 1.83 m 2H 1.62 1.52 m 3H 0.95 d 3H J 6.2 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 5.4 Hz .

3 Isobutylimino 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one 245 . To a stirred suspension of isatin 5.00 g in absolute EtOH 40 mL was added isobutylamine 3.7 mL at 23 C. and the mixture was stirred for 4 hours. The mixture then was filtered and a bright yellow solid collected and recrystallized from EtOH to give 2.32 g 34 of bright yellow crystals. Imine formation resulted in an approximately 2 1 mixture of geometric isomers. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 10.05 bs major 9.0 bs minor 7.67 d J 7.2 Hz major 7.62 d J 7.2 Hz minor 7.34 m 2H 7.04 m 3H 7.86 d J 7.8 Hz minor 4.19 d J 6.9 Hz minor 3.82 d J 6.9 Hz major 2.31 m major 2.12 m minor 1.08 d J 6.3 Hz major 1.03 d J 6.9 Hz minor C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 165.8 154.6 145.0 133.3 132.5 127.1 122.9 122.2 117.4 111.9 110.5 62.3 59.8 30.5 30.1 21.0 20.7.

3 Isobutylamino 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one 246 . To a solution of imine 255 3.0 g in EtOAc 50 mL was added 10 Pd C 0.10 g and the mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon for 8 hours. The mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and concentrated in vacuo to afford an off white solid. To this solid was added 100 mL of an anhydrous diethyl ether HCl solution and the mixture was shaken for 10 minutes. The resulting light pink colored salt was filtered and recrystallized from EtOH ether to give 2.2 g 61 of 3 isobutylamino 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one hydrochloride. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 7.67 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.41 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.14 t J 7.8 Hz 1H 7.00 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 5.07 s 1H 3.06 dd J 12.0 7.2 Hz 1H 2.91 dd J 12.0 6.9 Hz 1H 2.08 m 1H 1.04 d J 1.8 Hz 3H 1.02 d J 1.5 Hz 3H C NMR 75 MHz CDOD 172.9 144.7 132.5 127.3 124.2 121.5 112.1 58.5 53.4 27.5 20.4. The hydrochloride salt was converted to the free amine immediately prior to use in the next reaction by washing with NaHCOand extracting with CHCl. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.62 s 1H 7.35 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.21 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.03 t J 7.2 Hz 1H 6.89 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 4.39 s 1H 2.41 dd J 10.5 6.6 Hz 2.20 dd J 10.5 6.9 Hz 1.67 m 1H 0.88 d J 2.4 Hz 3H 0.86 d J 2.4 Hz 3H . Peaks at 2.41 and 2.20 combined for 3H due to overlap of the NH peak C NMR 75 MHz CDCl 180.4 141.7 128.8 127.6 125.0 122.6 110.2 61.0 52.7 28.9 20.6 20.5.

 2R 3S 3 3 Azido 2 hydroxy 4 phenyl butyl isobutyl amino 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one 247 . To a solution of 2R 3S 2 1 azido 2 phenyl ethyl oxirane 64 16.2 mg in isopropanol 2 mL was added freshly washed 3 isobutylamino 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one 15.4 mg and the solution was refluxed for 22 hours. The mixture was cooled and solvent removed under reduced pressure. Flash column chromotagraphy 40 70 EtOAc hexane afforded the azido alocohol 12.4 mg 37 as a 2 1 mixture of diasteteomers. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.99 s minor 7.77 s major 7.37 d J 7.8 Hz 7.32 7.20 m 7.12 7.05 m 6.89 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 4.46 s minor 4.43 s major 4.30 bs major 4.04 bs minor 3.82 3.76 m 3.65 3.59 m 3.56 3.53 m 3.30 dd J 12.9 2.4 Hz 3.00 2.91 m 2.76 2.69 m 2.60 2.47 m 2.07 1.99 m 1.84 1.80 m 1.59 s minor 1.28 1.23 m 0.97 0.85 m .

Compound 250. To a solution of azide 247 in dry THF 2 mL was added mixed carbonate 15 10.0 mg triethylamine 10 L and 10 Pd C 7.6 mg and the mixture was hydrogenated under a balloon for 2 hours. The mixture was filtered through a pad of celite and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo. The residue was chromatographed over silica gel 60 100 EtOAc hexane to afford compound 250 as a white solid 10.9 mg 60 as a mixture of diasteromers. H NMR 500 MHz CDOD 7.43 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.39 d J 7.4 Hz 7.25 7.13 m 7.04 t J 6.8 Hz 1H 6.99 t J 7.4 Hz 1H 6.86 d J 7.8 Hz 5.57 t J 4.9 Hz 4.56 s 4.54 s 3.92 3.88 m 3.78 3.63 m 3.24 3.22 m 3.15 dd J 14.0 3.6 Hz 2.96 dd J 13.9 3.6 Hz 2.86 2.84 m 2.81 m 2.77 d J 5.3 Hz 2.69 2.65 m 2.60 2.53 m 2.32 2.28 m 2.06 2.01 m 1.83 1.78 m 1.57 1.48 m 1.40 1.34 m 1.29 s 0.93 0.84 m .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R ylmethyl amino propyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 304a 19.4 mg 0.051 mmol and 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl chloride 32.0 mg 0.154 in CHCl 4 mL and sat. aq. NaHCO 4 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture then was extracted with CHCl 3 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 10 MeOH in CHCl yielding 22 mg of compound 305a 78 as a colorless solid R 0.45. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.33 s 9H 1.58 1.76 m 1H 2.10 2.26 m 1H 2.27 2.42 m 2H 2.73 2.83 m 1H 2.84 3.07 m 3H 3.19 t 2H J 14.4 Hz 3.70 3.84 m 1H 3.85 s 3H 3.92 4.05 m 2H 4.90 bs 1H 6.95 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 7.18 7.30 m 5H 7.68 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 7.37 bs 1H .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R ylmethyl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 304a 29.0 mg. 0.0768 mmol and 4 nitrobenzenesulfonyl chloride 51.0 mg 0.230 in CHCl 1 mL and sat. aq. NaHCO 1 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature. The mixture then was extracted with CHCl 3 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 6 MeOH in CHCl yielding 38 mg of compound 307a 88 as a colorless solid R 0.20. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.37 s 9H 1.60 1.74 m 1H 2.23 2.30 m 1H 2.35 2.40 m 2H 2.88 2.93 m 1H 2.94 3.08 m 3H 3.36 3.42 m 2H 2.67 3.84 m 1H 3.92 4.05 m 2H 4.69 bs 1H 7.20 7.33 m 6H 7.96 d 2H J 6.8 Hz 8.36 d 2H J 6.8 Hz .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R ylmethyl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 305a 8.2 mg 0.0150 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 2 mL . Triethylamine 0.00104 mL was added to this solution and after 5 minutes carbamate 528b 5.7 mg. 0.0749 mmol was added. After stirring for 20 minutes the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 7.7 mg of compound 306a 83 as a colorless solid R 0.20. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.52 1.73 m 3H 2.15 2.26 m 1H 2.35 2.41 m 2H 2.70 2.78 m 1H 2.81 3.01 m 3H 3.04 3.15 m 1H 3.24 3.31 m 2H 3.61 3.80 m 3H 3.86 s 3H 3.92 4.01 m 2H 4.03 4.13 m 2H 4.97 5.02 m 1H 5.60 bs 1H 5.61 d 1H J 5.4 Hz 6.97 d 2H J 7.2 Hz 7.19 7.26 m 5H 7.70 d 2H J 7.2 Hz 7.91 bs 1H .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 4 nitrobenzenesulfonyl 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R yl methyl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 307a 15.0 mg. 0.0267 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 2 mL . Triethylamine 0.00185 mL was added to this solution and after 5 minutes carbamate 28b 10.1 mg 0.0373 mmol was added. After stirring for 20 minutes the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 6 CHClin CHCl yielding 13.3 mg of compound 308a 81 as a colorless solid R 0.19. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 1.59 1.69 m 2H 1.70 1.80 m 1H 2.18 2.28 m 1H 2.34 2.41 m 2H 2.70 2.77 m 1H 2.88 2.93 m 1H 3.03 3.16 m 3H 3.22 3.28 m 2H 3.60 3.69 m 1H 3.71 3.76 m 1H 3.78 3.83 m 1H 3.91 3.99 m 2H 4.00 4.12 m 2H . 4.99 5.04 m 1H 5.57 bs 1H 5.63 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 7.19 7.28 m 5H 7.95 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 8.14 bs 1H 8.36 d 2H J 8.8 Hz .

A solution of compound 308a 20 mg 0.032 mmol zinc 65 mg 0.99 mmol calcium chloride CaCl 2.5 mg 0.023 in ethanol EtOH 4 mL and water 1 mL were refluxed for 5.5 hours. Sat. aq. NaHCOwas added to this mixture 5 mL then the reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 10 MeOH in CHCl yielding 9.0 mg of compound 309a 47 as a colorless solid R 0.24. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.60 1.69 m 2H 1.73 1.81 m 1H 2.15 2.16 m 1H 2.31 2.41 m 2H 2.60 2.71 m 2H 2.72 2.93 m 2H 3.07 3.11 m 1H 3.22 3.35 m 2H 3.60 3.72 m 2H 3.81 3.99 m 4H 4.00 4.05 m 1H 4.97 5.03 m 1H 5.35 bs 1H 5.63 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 6.66 d 2H J 11.2 Hz 8.14 bs 1H 7.19 7.28 m 5H 7.53 d 2H J 11.2 Hz .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 4 methoxybenzenesulfonyl 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R ylmethyl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 305a 11.0 mg 0.0201 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 2 mL . Triethylamine 0.00084 mL was added to this solution and after 5 minutes compound 40 6.5 mg 0.024 mmol was added. After stirring for 20 minutes the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 6.5 mg of compound 401a 54 as a colorless solid R 0.22. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.46 1.56 m 1H 1.59 1.67 m 2H 1.93 2.08 m 3H 2.18 2.25 m 2H 2.28 2.41 m 3H 2.60 2.72 m 2H 2.95 3.22 m 5H 3.54 3.60 m 1H 3.80 3.87 m 3H 3.88 s 3H 3.92 4.00 m 1H 4.35 4.41 m 1H 4.92 bs 1H 5.33 m 1H 6.99 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.18 7.29 m 5H 7.71 d 2H J 8.8 Hz .

A solution of 1S benzyl 2R hydroxy 3 4 nitrobenzenesulfonyl 5 oxopyrrolidin 2R yl methyl amino propylcarbamic acid tert butyl ester 307a 19.0 mg 0.0337 mmol in 20 TFA in CHCl 5 mL was stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture then was concentrated and redissolved CHCl 2 mL . Triethylamine 0.00091 mL was added to this solution and after 5 minutes compound 400 12.0 mg 0.0439 mmol was added. After stirring for 20 minutes the solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 5 MeOH in CHCl yielding 16.8 mg of 402a 81 as a colorless solid R 0.21. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.44 1.53 m 1H 1.56 1.62 m 2H 1.90 2.06 m 5H 2.18 2.24 m 1H 2.28 2.41 m 2H 2.60 2.69 m 1H 2.70 2.78 m 1H 2.99 3.22 m 4H 3.23 3.35 m 1H 3.54 3.62 m 1H 3.80 3.90 m 3H 3.95 4.02 m 1H 4.31 4.40 m 1H 4.91 bs 1H 5.22 m 1H 7.20 7.30 m 5H 7.98 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 8.36 d 2H J 8.7 Hz .

To 5 oxopyrrolidine 2R carboxylic acid 301a 5.00 g 38.7 mmol in MeOH 50 mL and DMF 0.5 mL was added SOCl 3.4 mL 45.5 mmol dropwise at 0 C. After stirring overnight the solvent was evaporated under vacuum CHCl 70 mL and saturated aq. NaHCO 30 mL were added and the mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 10 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO. Distillation under vacuum 1 mm gave 3.35 g 60 of 5 oxopyrrolidine 2R carboxylic acid methyl ester bp. 140 C. Sodium borohydride 44.28 mmol at 0 C. was added to this ester 3.17 g 22.14 mmol in EtOH 75 mL . After stirring overnight the reaction mixture was quenched with sat. aq. NHCl solution. The white precipitate was filtered and the residue was washed with ethyl acetate EtOAc . Evaporation of the solvent gave 2.30 g 90 of compound 302a which was used without further purification. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.67 1.79 m 1H 2.03 2.12 m 1H 2.15 2.35 m 2H 3.35 3.43 m 1H 3.56 3.62 m 1H 3.69 3.77 m 1H 4.81 bs 1H 7.55 bs 1H .

To a solution of 5R hydroxymethyl pyrrolidin 2 one 302a 0.800 g 6.96 mmol and EtN 1.94 mL 13.91 mmol in CHCl 40 mL at 0 C. was added MsCl 0.591 mL 7.65 mmol . After stirring overnight CHCl 70 mL and saturated aq. NaHCO 30 mL were added and the mixture was extracted with CHCl 6 20 mL and EtOAc 6 20 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography by eluting with 7 MeOH in CHCl yielding 864 mg of the corresponding mesylate 65 as a colorless solid R 0.21. A solution of this mesylate 0.306 g 1.60 mmol and NaN 0.208 g 3.20 mmol in DMF 5 mL was stirred for 6 h at 80 C. Then the solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 8 MeOH in CHCl yielding 236 mg of corresponding azide 98 as a colorless solid R 0.30. A solution of this azide 72.5 mg 0.518 mmol in EtOAc 10 mL was hydrogenated with Pd C 10 at 20 psi for 4 hours. Filtration through a pad of silica gel 5 g with MeOH 50 mL gave 53 mg of compound 303a 90 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1.64 1.71 m. 1H 2.11 2.19 m 1H 2.20 2.27 m 2H 2.57 2.64 m 1H . 2.65 2.77 m 1H 2.81 bs 2H 3.63 3.67 m 1H 7.59 bs 1H .

A solution of tert butyl S R R 1 oxiranyl 2 phenylethyl carbamate 2 65.0 mg 0.247 mmol 5R aminomethylpyrrolidin 2 one 303a 120 mg 0.105 mmol and diisopropylethylamine iPr EtN 0.200 mL 1.15 mmol in isopropanol 10 mL was heated under stirring at 70 C. for 14 hours. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 15 MeOH in CHCl yielding 71 mg of compound 272 76 as a colorless solid R 0.22. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.34 s 9H 1.63 1.78 m 1H 2.12 2.28 m 1H 2.29 2.38 m 2H 2.53 2.63 m 1H 2.64 2.73 m 1H 2.74 2.86 m 2H 2.92 3.00 m 2H 3.52 3.59 m 1H 3.72 3.90 m 2H 4.88 d 1H J 9.0 Hz 7.18 7.22 m 3H 7.26 7.30 m 2H 7.42 bs 1H .

A solution of compound 402a 15.0 mg 0.024 mmol zinc 50 mg 0.77 mmol CaCl 2.0 mg 0.018 in EtOH 1.5 mL and water 0.5 mL was refluxed for 4 hours. Sat. aq. NaHCO 5 mL was added to this mixture then the mixture was extracted with CHCl 3 5 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with 10 MeOH in CHCl yielding 8.0 mg of compound 403a 57 as a colorless solid R 0.23. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 1.49 1.56 m 1H 1.59 1.64 m 2H 1.83 1.92 m 3H 1.93 2.05 m 2H 2.15 2.27 m 1H 2.30 2.41 m 2H 2.58 2.65 m 1H 2.65 2.73 m 1H 2.95 3.03 m 1H 3.04 3.20 m 4H 3.53 3.62 m 1H 3.78 3.88 m 3H 3.92 4.0 m 1H 4.35 4.41 m 1H 4.92 bs 1H 5.38 m 1H 6.67 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.26 7.36 m 5H 7.54 d 2H J 8.7 Hz .

Obviously many modifications and variations of the invention as hereinbefore set forth can be made without departing from the spirit and scope thereof and therefore only such limitations should be imposed as are indicated by the appended claims.

