---

title: System and method for managing virtual worlds mapped to real locations in a mobile-enabled massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG)
abstract: Apparatus and methods provide a player of a massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG) to participate in at least one aspect of the MMORPG while using a wireless device. The wireless device executes a mobile MMORPG client, which interfaces with the game server(s) of the MMORPG via a mobile MMORPG server. A location based gaming mode for use with the wireless device is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09555334&OS=09555334&RS=09555334
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09555334
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061213
---
The present invention relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to the use of location based services on a wireless device for interacting with a virtual world of a massively multiplayer online role playing game MMORPG .

Personal computers and computer like devices such as gaming consoles are capable of hosting games which allow individuals and or groups of individuals to explore and interact with a virtual environment. Examples of gaming consoles include Sony s PLAYSTATION series of consoles and Microsoft s XBOX series of consoles. The virtual environments presented in these games are highly detailed and typically present a gamer with a fantasy science fiction historical or futuristic milieu.

Computer gaming began as a single player experience. Subsequently multiplayer games were created allowing more than one player to play the same game at the same time either cooperatively to achieve a common goal as a competition against one another or a mixture of both. Aspects of the game where players compete with or against computer controlled entities are generally known as player versus environment hereinafter PvE while aspects of the game where players compete against other players are generally known as player versus player hereinafter PvP . Initially multiplayer games were designed for multiple players to play on a single computer or computer like device. However as networking technology became more common multiplayer games were designed to be played by different players each playing on their own computer or computer like device.

As computer and computer like devices become more powerful and as network connectivity including connectivity to the Internet became more prevalent the complexity of computer games and the number of simultaneous players increased. One genre of computer games is designed for play by a large number of simultaneous players. Such games are typically known as massively multiplayer online role playing games or MMORPGs. These games are also sometimes known as massively multiplayer online games or MMOs. For consistency this document will use only the term MMORPG. Examples of MMORPGs include for example ULTIMA ONLINE EVERQUEST STAR WAR GALAXIES SHADOWBANE CITY OF VILLANS CITY OF HEROS FINAL FANTASY XI WORLD WAR II ONLINE EVE ONLINE EVERQUEST II WORLD OF WARCRAFT and DUNGEONS AND DRAGON ONLINE .

A MMORPG permits a large number of people to share a virtual experience together by allowing the individual players to interact with each other in small and large groups. Players create alternate personas in the form of player characters. Players generally have the ability to customize their player characters appearance physical and mental attributes. For example a player can customize his character by selecting gender facial appearance body type hair color styles skin tone and clothing. Additionally a character can be associated with additional attributes consistent with the theme of the MMORPG. For example within a fantasy themed MMORPG a player typically can choose to play a character selected from any of several races and classes. Examples of available races may include humans wood elves high elves dwarves gnomes dark elves trolls and ogres. Examples of classes may include clerics druids shamans rangers paladins shadow knights warriors monks rogues bards enchanters magicians necromancers and wizards. Each of these choices may affect the appearance and capabilities of the player character.

By controlling their actions players can cause their player characters to interact with other player characters and computer generated non player characters in a computer generated virtual or game world. These actions may affect the status of the players characters and or the environment of the game world and thus further affect the appearance and or capabilities of the player characters. Most MMORPGs permit multiple avenues for advancement of player characters. These may include defeating enemies in combat performing quests quests are discussed in greater detail in relationship to below exploration or engaging in artisan activities. In many MMORPGs successfully completing an activity which provides for advancement is rewarded by an award of experience points. Player characters may be organized into a series of increasingly powerful levels with each increasing experience level requiring an increased accumulation of experience points. Higher level characters may fight with greater skill tolerate a greater degree of damage before being defeated have a wider range of abilities or be capable of casting more powerful spells.

Further while many MMORPGs permit player characters to advance by engaging in solo activities within the game world the core of many MMORPGs is social interaction between the various players. Accordingly MMORPGs generally permit player characters to form groups and for those groups to work together at a common goal. In order to facilitate group formation many MMORPGs may include in game features to facilitate group formation. For example player characters can be visibly flagged by their players as looking for a group hereinafter LFG . Alternatively the game world may provide predetermined locations for player characters who are looking for a group to gather.

The game system includes at least one game server for maintaining the state of the game world. Except for scheduled downtime to perform upgrades and administrative tasks the server is generally operated continuously resulting in a game world which is persistent. Further in order to avoid overcrowding of the virtual world most MMORPGs support multiple shards also known as instances of the virtual world. Each shard generally shares a same basic design but are generally populated by different sets of player characters. Thus while each shard begins with a common set of initial states the difference in actions taken by the player characters of each shard will cause each shard to have its own unique state. Alternatively some shards may be operated using alternate rules of play and thus may start with a different state than the common state. For example in a game where most shards are operated in a predominately PvE mode some shards may be operated to permit a greater range of PvP activities.

Typically each shard is supported by its own hardware. For example each shard may be supported by its own game server . Generally administrative mechanism are built into the game system to support moving characters between shards thereby permitting expanding the number of game servers when the MMORPG is increasing in number of players and contracting the number of game servers when the MMORPG is decreasing in number of players.

The game system may include other servers aside from one or more game servers . For example most MMORPGs utilize at least one authentication server for authenticating player log ins to the game system . Most MMORPGs provide chat and or message board services to its players. Such services may be provided by one or more messaging servers . Preferably messaging servers provide the chat and message board services via a web based interface. Further most MMORPGs bill players a subscription fee for accessing the server. Billing services may be provided by one or more billing servers . Preferably the billing servers also provide a web based interface for players to enter and edit their contact and billing information.

Also shown in is a game master . The operation of any MMORPG generally requires a number of game masters. Each game master is a customer service agent for the entity which runs the game system . Their role in the MMORPG may be to address customer issues. Such issues may include a character which is stuck in the virtual world due to a bug in the MMORPG arbitrating a dispute between multiple players or managing special events such as holiday related events.

As previously noted the game system maintains the game world in a persistent state. Thus a player can reasonably expect that even when the player is logged out of the MMORPG other players are playing the MMORPG and thus changing the state of the virtual world. Typically a player can log out of the MMORPG under certain predetermined conditions e.g. the player s character is not engaged in combat or the player s character is located in a safe location within the virtual world . When the player logs out of the MMORPG the state of the player s character is saved by the server and then the player s character is removed i.e. vanishes from the perspective of other characters from the virtual world. Conversely when the player logs in to the MMORPG the state of the player s character is restored and the player s character is inserted i.e. appears from the perspective of other characters into the game world at the same location as when the player logged out of the MMORPG. In players represent players which are logged in to the MMORPG and therefore have characters which appear in the virtual world while players represent players which have logged out the MMORPG and therefore do not have characters which appear in the virtual world.

Many of the players who are logged off the MMORPG would like to be able to further participate in the affairs of the virtual world supported by the MMORPG. Such players may not have access to a computer or computer like devices to run the regular game client . Although such players may have mobile devices generally it is impractical to run a version of the standard game client on the mobile device. This partially due to the enormous amount of data processed by the client present the virtual world. For example the game client for the WORLD OF WARCRAFT requires four gigabytes of memory. Accordingly there is a need and desire for methods and apparatus to permit a player of the MMORPG to have increased interactions with the MMORPG.

The disclosed embodiments provide apparatus and methods for a MMORPG player to participate in at least one aspect of the MMORPG while using a mobile device. The wireless device executes a mobile MMORPG client which interfaces with the game server s of the MMORPG via a mobile MMORPG server. While the mobile MMORPG client generally supports a subset of the interaction capability a regular MMORPG the mobile MMORPG client preferably supports one gaming mode not available to the regular client. This gaming mode is known as location based gaming and takes advantage of the inherent mobile nature of mobile devices. A mobile MMORPG server is used to support location based gaming.

Now referring to the drawings where like reference numerals designate like elements there is shown in a system for permitting players to have increased interaction with an MMORPG in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

System includes a plurality of online players are playing the MMORPG by running a game client or on their computer or computer like devices . The computer and computer like devices are coupled to a network which in one embodiment may be the Internet to communicate with a modified game system . The modified game system is illustrated to include a plurality of game servers for supporting separate shards of the MMORPG an authentication server for validating users log ins a messaging server for providing chat and or message board services which are preferably web based and a billing server for billing the users who play the MMORPG and for permitting users to enter contact and billing information via a secure web site. The modified gaming system also includes a mobile MMORPG server which will be described in greater detail later in connection with . Although no internal network connections are shown within the modified gaming system in order to avoid cluttering the figure it should be understood that each of the illustrated servers are networked and thus messages may be passed between any of the illustrated servers .

While servers and are represented as discrete servers it should be recognized that any combination of the above noted servers may in fact be implemented as a distributed system of multiple servers or conversely the multiple servers may be implemented with a lesser number of servers or even a single server by using for example server virtualization technology. Also while the mobile MMORPG server is illustrated as being a component of the game system and thus co located with the other servers and one skilled in the art would recognize that the invention can be practiced using other configurations for example locating the mobile MMORPG server in the wireless network such as at a wireless carrier s data center .

The system also includes a plurality of offline players and at least one game master . As shown the game master may be proximately located to the game system thereby permitting the game master to directly interact with the game system . Alternatively the game master may be located at a remote location such as an overseas call center and may remotely interact with the game system via a computer system coupled to the network not illustrated .

The system further include players who are no longer logged into the MMORPG but unlike players these players wish to continue to participate in the virtual world of the MMORPG. The system enables such users to continue to interact with the MMORPG through the establishment of a mobile MMORPG game session. The mobile MMORPG session is supported by the modified game system through the inclusion of a mobile MMORPG server which is in communication with the game servers . The mobile MMORPG session is supported for the users through the inclusion of additional software modules to each user s wireless device . Each user s wireless device can communicate with the mobile MMORPG server and thus the game servers via the wireless network and the network .

In one embodiment the wireless devices are wireless telephones such as cellular phones which also support a computer platform for downloading and executing application programs at the phone. However it should be understood that the principles of the present invention can also be applied to other types of mobile or portable communications device having a similar computer platform such as some types of personal digital assistant PDA a two way text pager a laptop computer and a tablet computer.

Before describing the interaction of the players via their wireless devices with the game system it is helpful to review the operation of the wireless network and the wireless device .

The wireless network also includes a mobile switching center MSC . The MSC is in communication with each of the BTSs as well as another network. As illustrated the other network is the carrier network of the wireless carrier operating the BTSs and the MSC . The carrier network may include a router for coupling the carrier network to another network such as network which in one embodiment is the Internet.

Accordingly the wireless network provides the capability for routing data between the wireless devices and servers on the Internet through the uses of its BTSs MSC carrier network and router .

The contents of the memory also include a mobile client a location based server LBS manager a presence manager and a privacy manager each of which are discussed in greater detail below. The wireless device preferably supports the feature of downloadable applications. In one embodiment the MMORPG mobile client is installed in the wireless device via an application download from the wireless network . The wireless device also include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC which controls the radio transceiver user interface and memory via the bus . The ASIC preferably includes a position determination equipment PDE for identifying a geographic location of the wireless device. The PDE may determine the geographic location of the wireless using a variety of methods. For example the PDE may use signals transmitted from global positioning satellites GPS received by the radio transceiver and convert the GPS signals into location data. Alternatively the PDE may use signals transmitted between the radio transceiver and one or more BTSs and use techniques based on some combination of triangulation angle of arrival AOA time of arrival TOA or enhanced observed time difference E OTD to determine the location of the wireless device .

One skilled in the art would understand that the architecture of the wireless device can be varied without departing from the scope of the invention. For example some potential variations include having multiple radio transceivers having multiple memory units including for example different memory units such as a DRAM base memory unit and a FLASH memory unit. In some embodiments at least part of the memory may be embodied on the ASIC . Further the ASIC may be a plurality of ASICs or some combination of a non ASIC chip and one or more ASICs. In particular the PDE may be on its own chip or alternatively the PDE may be a software module residing in the memory .

The mobile client is an important component of the system for supporting players to continue to interact with the virtual world of the MMORPG. As with the regular client the mobile client is an application which renders a view of the virtual world and which provides a mechanism for the player to interact with the virtual world.

As previously noted the detailed virtual worlds of the MMORPG are stored using a large amount of memory not normally available in wireless device. Accordingly the quality of the view of the virtual world rendered by the mobile client and the level of player interaction permitted by the mobile client is typically a subset of what may be possible with the regular game client . One example of such limitations may be that players using the mobile client may be limited to certain portions of the virtual world. Another example is that players using the mobile client may be limited in their range of actions. Players might not be able to engage in PvP action or mobile MMORPG players might only be able to engage in PvP action against other mobile MMORPG players and not against players using regular clients 

Another example may relate to how or whether players using regular clients view or interact with players using the mobile client . Since the players using the mobile client are limited in their range of interaction in one embodiment the two types of online players i.e. players and are divorced from each other and one group of players cannot view or interact with another group of players. In such embodiments certain portions of the virtual world may be restricted solely for use by player using the mobile client while the remaining portions of the virtual world may be dedicated to players using the regular client 

Alternatively players and may be handled as normally as possible thereby permitting interactions between the two groups of players . Due to limitations associated with the mobile client it may be necessary to place similar limitations on players using the regular client . In such embodiments players using the regular client may be restricted to certain portions of the virtual world and if a player using the regular client enters into the restricted area that player may restricted to operate as if the player were running a mobile MMORPG client . As an example a restriction on the mobile client may be that full combat capability may not be supported and a portion of the virtual world permitted for interaction between the two groups of players may be an auction house which could be designated as a no combat zone in the game thereby permitting players to engage in commerce but not combat.

The mobile MMORPG game supports one gaming mode not available to players using the regular client . This gaming mode is known as location based gaming and takes advantage of the inherent mobility of mobile devices. Location based gaming will be discussed in greater detail below in connection with . However in order to support location based gaming the mobile MMORPG client must have the capability of determining the physical location of the wireless device in the real world. The LBS Manager is responsible for providing the geographic location of the wireless device to the mobile client . In one embodiment the LBS Manager may obtain geographic coordinates from the position determining equipment .

The presence manager is used by players of the mobile MMORPG client to see other players of the mobile MMORPG client . More specifically each player may also be flagged to indicate that the player is LFG or wants to participate in location based gaming.

The privacy manager is used to control a player s visibility to other players and to determine whether the player is accepting game related messages from other players . This is because there may be times when the player is unavailable to engage in MMORPG related activity. Under such circumstances that player likely would not want to receive MMORPG related messages. Accordingly the privacy manager can be used to indicate that a player is not available for mobile MMORPG related activities. Further the privacy manager can also be used to automatically reject messages related to the MMORPG as a whole or just to the mobile MMORPG portion of the MMORPG. Conversely a player may be actively looking for a group and can also use the privacy manager to flag himself so that other players would notice that he is looking for a group. As discussed below with reference to preferably the game system also implements a web page for the player to set his privacy level.

The GM interface is a user interface module accessible by game masters of the mobile MMORPG. From this interface game masters may design modify enable disable or delete mobile MMORPG quests. The GM interface is in communication with the mobile MMORPG quest database as described in greater detail below. After designing and enabling a new mobile MMORPG quests a GM may use the GM interface to host the quest as a live event by making announcements and picking players who wish to join the new quest. Alternatively the game master may use the GM interface to bind the quest to an in game object such as a non player character who gives interested players the quest thereby permitting players to choose with who and at when they may wish to participate in the quest.

The mobile MMORPG quest database is a database which stores the quests which are designed modified enabled or disabled via the GM interface . Existing quests may also be deleted from the quest database through the GM interface . The mobile MMORPG quest database is in communication with the GM interface described above the location mapper described below.

The real geography database the virtual geography database and the location mapper are used to support location based gaming which is discussed in greater detail below in connection with . The real geography database is a geographic database of the real world and preferably include both geographic information mapping locations to coordinate as well as a point of interest database for locating specific types of locations. For example a point of interest database might be able to locate coffee houses restaurants malls stores other publicly accessible commercial establishments parks libraries museums publicly accessible government facilities etc. The virtual geography database is a geography database of the virtual world. The location mapper is capable of querying and receiving information from both the real and virtual geography databases . The use of the databases and the location mapper will be discussed in connection with .

The mobile MMORPG interface is used by the mobile MMORPG server to send and receive messages between the mobile MMORPG server and the player s wireless device . The mobile MMORPG interface is also used by the mobile MMORPG server to send and receive messages between the mobile MMORPG server and servers of the game system .

The notification and privacy interface is a component which interfaces with the mobile MMORPG interface and from the mobile MMORPG interface to the notification and privacy manager of the wireless device and the messaging server of the gaming system . The notification and privacy interface provides an interface to accept notification and privacy information from the notification and privacy manager of the wireless device as previously described. Additionally the messaging server of the gaming system preferably also supports a web page for accepting similar information. The notification and privacy interface therefore supports a wireless device based method and a web based method for specifying whether a player wishes to participate in the mobile MMORPG game. Once the player s preference has been obtained that information is communicated to the mobile MMORPG interface and the appropriate game server so that inappropriate messages are not sent players who choose not to participate in the mobile MMORPG game.

Questing or the action of performing quests is typically an important component of an MMORPG. A quest is a series of tasks which a player accepts. The quest is completed when the player finishes the entire series of tasks. Typically the player is awarded with a reward for completing a quest. The series of task may be a single task or a plurality of tasks. Typically at least one task of the quest will be a travel task for a player character to travel from a first point A to a second point B in the virtual world.

The mobile MMORPG supports location based gaming which can be applied to any travel task undertaken in the MMORPG. Location based gaming will now be discussed in greater detail in relationship to . More specifically illustrates a process for supporting location based gaming from the perspective of the mobile MMORPG server and encompasses the act the mobile MMORPG server performs when creating and administering a quest having a single travel task. Similarly illustrates a process for supporting location based gaming in the same context but from the perspective of the wireless device used the player

Now referring to the process starts at step S and ends at S. Location based gaming is a mode of gaming not available to players using the regular game client . Location based gaming as described below takes advantage of the inherent mobility of wireless devices and permits real world travel and interaction to translate into a set of similar actions in the virtual world.

At step S a quest is created. As noted above for the purposes of this example the quest is a single travel task requiring the player s character to travel from a first point A to a second point B where both points A and B are in the virtual world. Step S is typically performed by a game master working on the GM interface . Alternatively step S may also be performed by a game designer who might have his own interface to the quest database not illustrated . The process continues at step S.

At step S a distance criteria relating to the real world is created and associated with each sequential pair of travel waypoints in the quest. In one embodiment the distance criteria includes a parameter specifying an allowable range of distances for a player to travel to a first waypoint and a parameter for specifying an allowable range of distances for the player to travel between the first and a second waypoint. In other embodiments the distance criteria may only specify an maximum allowable range i.e. no minimum range requirement . Yet another embodiment may only specify the allowable range between the first and second waypoints without restricting the range between a player s current location and the first waypoint. Step S may be performed by a game master working on the GM interface although a game designer may also design the distance criteria as part of the design of MMORPG. The process continues at step S.

At step S the mobile MMORPG server receives at its mobile MMORPG interface a message from the wireless device of the player which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the location mapper is used to search the real geography database to set a location A in the real world to correspond to point A in the virtual world. Preferably the location is a point of interest for example a coffee house. The location mapper then applies the distance criteria against location A to locate a real world location B which is assigned to correlate to position B in the virtual world. Preferably the location B is a point of interest. In one embodiment step S is automatically performed by the location mapper . In another embodiment step S is manually performed by a GM at the GM interface . The process continues at step S.

At step S the mobile MMORPG server receives at its mobile MMORPG interface a message from the wireless device of the player which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the player s location in the real world is compared to the location A to determine whether the player has reached the starting point A associated with the quest. If so the process continues at step S. If not the process returns to step S.

At step S the mobile MMORPG server communicates to the game server that the player has reached location A . This causes the game server to advance the player s character in the virtual world to virtual world location A. The process continue at step S.

At step S the mobile MMORPG server receives at its mobile MMORPG interface a message from the wireless device of the player which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the player s location in the real world is compared to the location B to determine whether the player has reached the starting point B associated with the quest. If so the process continues at step S. If not the process returns to step S.

At step S the mobile MMORPG server communicates to the game server that the player has reached location B . This causes the game server to advance the player s character in the virtual world to virtual world location B and the player having just traveled from real world location A to real word location B has caused the player s characters to travel from virtual world location A to virtual world location B thereby satisfying the travel task element of the quest created in step S.

At step S player signs on to MMORPG via a wireless device . In one embodiment the sign on request is sent to the mobile MMORPG server which communicates with the authentication server on behalf of the player

At step S the player character associated with the player interacts with the MMORPG and obtains a quest enabled for location based gaming. The interaction for obtaining the quest may be any number of mechanisms including for example the player character interacting with a non player character the player character traveling to a predetermined location in the virtual world or the player character responding to a quest announcement made by a game master .

At step S the wireless device sends a message to the mobile MMORPG server which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the wireless device receives instruction from the mobile MMORPG server directing the player to travel to point A .

At step S the wireless device sends a message to the mobile MMORPG server which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the wireless device checks to see whether it received a message from the mobile MMORPG server indicating that point A has been reached by the player . If not the process continues at step S. If so the process continues with step S.

At step S the player is notified as having reached and the wireless device receives instruction for the player to travel to real world location B and the instruction is displayed to the player . The process continues at step S.

At step S the wireless device sends a message to the mobile MMORPG server which communicates the location of the wireless device in the real world to the mobile MMORPG server . The process continues at step S.

At step S the wireless device checks to see whether it received a message indicating that point B has been reached by the player . If not the process continues at step S. If so the process continues with step S.

At step S the player is informed that the travel from A to B has completed the travel task portion of the quest. The process ends at S.

Location based gaming therefore takes advantage of the mobile nature of wireless devices and maps virtual world locations to real world locations. The real world locations are preferably publicly accessible points of interest thereby permitting players to perform travel components of quests in the real world. While illustrate a simplified quest having only a travel task many actual quests in MMORPG often include multiple travel segments and each travel segment can be handled in a manner similar to steps S S. Additionally at the beginning or end of each travel segment the player character may be required to perform additional actions. These may include conversing with a non player character finding an item killing a monster etc. In location based gaming tasks in the virtual world may also be mapped to a set of tasks in the real world such that if the player performs a task in the real world the mobile MMORPG server would communicate to the game server that the player character had performed the corresponding task in the virtual world.

Variations on the real world activity may include having two separate players which are within a predetermined proximity travel to a same destination in the real world and to interact with each other. For example a first and a second player may each be assigned differing A locations but a same B location. The quest or a portion thereof can be satisfied once both players have traveled from their respective A locations to the B location.

Location based gaming may also apply to groups of players where a plurality of players within a predetermined proximity could form a group in the virtual and real worlds and would be assigned the same A and B locations.

The present invention is therefore directed in part to an apparatus and method for permitted players of a MMORPG to continue to interact with the virtual world of the MMORPG through their wireless devices. Each player s wireless device includes a mobile MMORPG client and associated modules related to location determination privacy management and presence management. Each player s wireless device interacts with a mobile MMORPG server which also communications with the game servers of the MMORPG. The mobile MMORPG server preferably includes a mechanism for creating location based gaming scenarios which can be stored as quests in a quest database of the mobile MMORPG thereby permitting the players on the wireless devices to engage in location based gaming.

While the invention has been described in detail in connection with the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the above disclosed embodiments. Rather the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of variations alternations substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described but which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited by the foregoing description or drawings but is only limited by the scope of the appended claims.

