---

title: Digital user interface for inputting Indic scripts
abstract: A system and method for displaying a base character in response to user input and displaying characters related to the base character to allow the user to select one of the displayed characters for a message string.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707515&OS=07707515&RS=07707515
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07707515
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060519
---
Of India s nearly one thousand million people a sizeable amount of over nine hundred million are currently excluded from participating in the so called information revolution Internet and web because of the absence of software and input mechanisms that can deal with information in the language which majority of the Indians speak. The mobile phone revolution has caught on in India. The number of handheld devices such as mobile phones that are currently available in India hugely outnumber the number of desktop computers and other computing mechanisms available in the country. However the majority of the handheld devices and mobile phones in particular still use English as the input and interaction medium. A small number of mobile phone manufacturers have come up support for a couple of Indic languages in their phones. Unfortunately inputting text using one of these mechanisms is a real challenge even for experienced mobile users. There is a need for a mechanism that can be used to input languages derived from Brahmi scripts Indic scripts on devices which do not have a full fledged QWERTY keyboard.

Embodiments of the invention include a system and method for displaying a base character in response to user input and displaying characters related to the base character to allow the user to select one of the displayed characters for a message string.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

India has a diverse list of spoken languages among different groups of people. At least 30 different languages and around 2000 dialects have been identified. India is a multilingual country with more than 20 officially recognized languages. Of these some are of Perso Arabic origin with writing rules similar to Arabic. However a vast majority of the others are derived from the ancient Brahmi script as shown in . Around the world the percentage of people who speak languages that use scripts derived from Brahmi scripts is also as huge as 22 percent. This is also an advantage as far as the input mechanism according to one embodiment of the invention is concerned since the same mechanism can be used to input a large number of scripts with some parameterization of the software.

In Brahmi script alphabets vowels and consonants are phonetically classified. Vowels and consonants combine together to describe a word in the language. The shapes of these vowels and consonants could be different in different Brahmi derived scripts but their base is still the same. In addition to vowels and consonants there are a few graphical symbols that are used for nasalization of vowels. As shown in there also exist basic standalone vowels in Brahmi script. The consonants in Brahmi script can be grouped phonetically into groups of 5 consonants each as shown in .

A single syllable used in an Indian language consists of either a lone vowel optionally followed by a graphical symbol or a consonantal syllable consisting of a consonant followed by a vowel and optionally followed by one or more graphical symbols. It is also possible to have two or more consonants in a syllable. This methodology of having consonants and vowels is unique to scripts that are derived from the Brahmi language. illustrates the consonant vowel combinations for the letter .

Non keyboarded devices like mobile phones personal digital assistants PDA Kiosk booths TV that allow some inputs through remotes etc. are becoming popular. These devices have good mechanisms i.e. multitapping T9 for inputting English languages through a number pad. However using the same mechanism to input Indic scripts is a challenge because of the huge matrix of consonant vowel and consonant consonant vowel combinations that are possible in Indian languages as illustrated in B and .

The most common method for inputting English in a mobile phone is the abc multi tapping input mechanism. Here the user types the letter 2 on the number pad thrice in succession with as little time gap as possible to avoid timeouts to enter the character c . If a similar mechanism was used for inputting Indic languages then it would require having 5 consonants more in some cases on each number of the keypad and 12 or more vowels on the last keypad number. Because of timeout problems entering these characters could become cumbersome in case a mistake is made. For example if a user wants to enter the standalone vowel which comes 7th in the vowel list then the user needs to tap a number on the keypad 7 times. In addition the user needs to enter the numbers quickly so as to avoid the timeout problem . In case the user tapped the keypad 8 times by mistake then the user needs to add 12 more taps to come back to the correct character again.

According to one embodiment the invention uses the arrow keys available in handheld devices such as mobile phones and TV remotes in addition to the number keypad available on these devices. According to one embodiment since Indic languages have a grouping of consonants into groups of 5 a group of characters is assigned to each of the numbers on the keypad. illustrates a cell phone employing one embodiment of the invention. The user is given visual feedback in a 6 3 grid at the bottom of a screen . Up down left and right arrow keys on a D pad are used to traverse through the grid. As used herein D pad or direction pad is an exemplary embodiment of up down left right arrow keys and a central ok select key. In general it is contemplated that any type of keypad or touch screen or other selection device may be employed in addition to or in place of the D pad. When a particular number on a keypad is entered the user sees all the possible vowels consonants that can be entered using that number in the grid . For example when the number 2 on the keypad is entered the screen provides the grid as visual feedback as shown in . In particular the character corresponding to number 2 and the related characters which are part of the group as shown in an array within the grid .

The D pad or arrow keys on the device can then be used to select the actual character that is desired from the list of available characters displayed in the grid . For example if the user wants to enter the letter shown at then the user types 2 on the keypad which shows and all other consonants in its group followed by the up arrow key which would select as shown in . The user selects this character by pressing OK or by pressing any number key on the keypad on the D pad so that the character appears as a first character in a string which would eventually be a message to be transmitted or a string to be saved such as someone s name or address . In general to select a character from the grid the user navigates to the character with the use of D pad and then presses OK or presses any number key on the keypad. The last character will be appended to the existing message text in both cases.

Thus as shown in a first display area is the grid having a central area and peripheral areas spaced about the central area and wherein the first character is displayed in the central area and the first additional characters are displayed in the peripheral areas .

In case of vowel Matras slightly more feedback is provided to the user by showing the rendered form of the previous consonant that was entered by the user with the different Matras that are available in the grid. For example as shown in if the previously typed letter was then the user would see the combination in the grid when the user types in the number 9 on his keypad.

As another example in order to type the letter the user has to type the number 2 on the keypad followed by the up arrow key to select followed by the number 9 on the keypad which shows all possible Matra combinations of followed by the left arrow key to form .

This input mechanism according to one embodiment of the invention provides several advantages. As described above it can be implemented without the need for timeouts to change character selection options. Thus there are no timeout problems according to one embodiment of the invention since the user uses the arrow keys on the device to select the character unlike multi tapping where the same key has to be tapped multiple times in order to select a particular character . The method also provides clear visual feedback to the user and reduces the number of clicks in order to select a particular vowel or consonant. Method of selecting a group of 5 characters with the use of a keypad number provides a clear mental model since the model phonetically classified consonants in Indic Scripts used here is exactly the same as the model that people learn in their schools. All these unique features of the mechanism ensure a smaller learning curve to the user. Consequently the invention is simple to use even for novice users.

This mechanism could also be combined with other input mechanisms like T9 in order to make it even more powerful. Providing word prediction and dictionary support to the method could also be possible.

In summary in one embodiment the invention comprises a device such as a cell phone having a graphical user interface including a display and a user interface selection device key pad . A method is provided to allow a user to select Indic script characters to form a string of characters message . An input is received from the user via the keypad . For example the user presses a number indicative of a first character. A first display area grid presents a plurality of characters corresponding to the first character. The user selects via the keypad one of the plurality of characters in the second display area e.g. character . The selected character is displayed in a second display area as part of the message .

The computing device optionally has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that may be accessed by computing device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store the desired information and that may be accessed by computing device . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory optionally includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computing device may also include a non volatile memory interface for other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media.

A user may enter commands and information into computing device through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keypad and a D pad or other pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A display or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a display interface . In addition to the display computing devices often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computing device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers via a network interface . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

Generally the data processors of computing device are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. Aspects of the invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. Further aspects of the invention include the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computing device embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any aspect of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with aspects of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

An interface in the context of a software architecture includes a software module component code portion or other sequence of computer executable instructions. The interface includes for example a first module accessing a second module to perform computing tasks on behalf of the first module. The first and second modules include in one example application programming interfaces APIs such as provided by operating systems component object model COM interfaces e.g. for peer to peer application communication and extensible markup language metadata interchange format XMI interfaces e.g. for communication between web services .

The interface may be a tightly coupled synchronous implementation such as in Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE COM or distributed COM DCOM examples. Alternatively or in addition the interface may be a loosely coupled asynchronous implementation such as in a web service e.g. using the simple object access protocol . In general the interface includes any combination of the following characteristics tightly coupled loosely coupled synchronous and asynchronous. Further the interface may conform to a standard protocol a proprietary protocol or any combination of standard and proprietary protocols.

The interfaces described herein may all be part of a single interface or may be implemented as separate interfaces or any combination therein. The interfaces may execute locally or remotely to provide functionality. Further the interfaces may include additional or less functionality than illustrated or described herein.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the invention illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the invention may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions may be organized into one or more computer executable components or modules. Aspects of the invention may be implemented with any number and organization of such components or modules. For example aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific computer executable instructions or the specific components or modules illustrated in the figures and described herein. Other embodiments of the invention may include different computer executable instructions or components having more or less functionality than illustrated and described herein.

When introducing elements of aspects of the invention or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Having described aspects of the invention in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

